Good morning.
My name is Lorie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter APC Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today John Colglazier please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lorie.
Good morning everyone.
We are glad you could join us today for Anadarko's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
I would like to remind you that today’s presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
In addition a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
I encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to last night’s earnings release.
Now I will turn the call over to Al Walker.
Following his remarks we will open it up for questions with Al and our executive team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
I am proud to say Anadarko delivered another strong performance in the third quarter highlighted in particular by record production despite not realizing a scheduled tanker lifting in Algeria and we delivered a 20% increase in our year-over-year liquids composition achieved by growing more than 110 barrels of liquids per day on a divestiture adjusted basis which is a remarkable accomplishment for a company today that produces almost 850 000 BOE per day.
Outstanding performance in the Wattenberg field continues to be a tremendous value driver for our company and a major growth engine for the U.S.
on-shore business.
The results of our horizontal drilling program and the investments we have made in the DJ Basin to expand our midstream assets in that region enabled us to grow liquid volumes by 20 000 barrels per day sequentially.
We have talked about in the past the importance of controlling our wellhead results through aggressive midstream management.
Results from this quarter in the Wattenberg field once again put an exclamation point on this cornerstone difference for Anadarko.
We expect the Wattenberg field to generate more than $500 million of free cash flow this year while demonstrating exceptional growth in the years to come.
Turning to the Wolfcamp Shale we have expanded our highly successful delineation program which continues to deliver very encouraging results outside our high confident area.
Two great examples of these successes are our recent Medicine Bow and [Car Wells] which are about 50 miles apart and reported exceptional 30-day IPs of approximate 1 300 and 1 700 BOE per day respectively.
As announced last night our midstream MLP Western Gas acquired key infrastructure strategically located in the heart of the Delaware Basin consistent with the successful approach in the DJ I have mentioned moments ago this investment significantly expands our midstream capacity to facilitate our future production growth and control product delivery to the most attractive markets.
We believe our Wolfcamp acreage is situated in the best part of the basin and with this strategic acquisition coupled with the excellent joint results we are building a competitive advantage and doing it with another major resource development.
We look forward to discussing the Wolfcamp resource opportunity our plans infrastructure expansion in much more detail when we hold our investor conference next March.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we expect to achieve first oil of our Lucius part in the coming weeks.
Next we anticipate nearing the success of Lucius with its 80 000 barrel of oil per day twin Heidelberg.
The Heidelberg spar [arrive] facility in Ingleside Texas after sailing from the fabrication yard in Finland and we look forward to achieving first oil there in 2016.
In Mozambique we continue to work to advance our operated LNG project and have made significant progress to-date including securing the land for the LNG Park being in a position to select EPC contractors later this year engineering and construction planning for early works achieving approval of the environmental impact assessment obtaining reserves certifications reaching non-binding HOAs from multiple Asian LNG buyers for about 7 million tons per annum and letters of intent for our project financing.
We are also pleased with the assembly of Mozambique past enabling legislation during the quarter.
This clears the way for the Decree Law.
The Decree Law is critical to establish the legal governmental and contractual support for our LNG project.
Ratification of an acceptable Decree Law will enable Anadarko and our partners to pursue investment in the country as planned and sets the stage for submission for plant development to the government 2015.
Something we believe will enhance the laws and the well-being of people of Mozambique for decades to come.
The progress of this project towards first cargos is largely dependent upon an acceptable Decree Law and we look forward to the government of Mozambique delivering this by year end as it has indicated it will do.
These are just a few of the operating achievements and highlights for this quarter.
I encourage you to review the third quarter ops report available on our website for more highlights and details about our performance.
During the quarter as you probably know this we significantly strengthened the balance sheet ending with approximately $8.3 billion of cash on hand bolstered primarily by our ongoing portfolio management activities.
To achieve this we closed or announced the monetization of more than $2.2 billion in assets having little impact on current production reserves.
Anadarko continues to be the most active portfolio manager among our peers and we do this to achieve a better asset mix for future success and stock price performance.
As our track record demonstrates you can expect us to continue pursuing and evaluating opportunities to bring forward this for our shareholders.
In closing we view the current environment as an opportunity for Anadarko to continue to distinguish itself to our deep bench of economic opportunities in our portfolio.
The talent of our people the strength of our financial operating capacity and our demonstrated commitment to actively managing our portfolio really does set us apart.
We believe we are one of only a few companies positioned to manage the near-term uncertainty in the commodity prices while achieving our long stated our long-term objectives with efficient capital allocation.
The employees of Anadarko are committed to differentiating success and I believe our track record for delivering this speaks for itself.
With that we are happy to take your questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of David Cameron of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Al can you talk about - I think you know where I am going with this but can you talk about 2015? How you think about capital allocation just given where the commodity price is kind of what that does to your longer-term thinking.
Can you just - I will just leave it that and give you some broad framework to work with but can you help me with that? Sure.
Well let us start with the fact we are an exploration company so I think you can anticipate when we rollout our capital plan in March we will continue to be very involved in exploration which gives us option value for the future.
The current commodity price environment is going to have little to no impact on what we see over the next four to five years for things that we would be involved within '15 with our exploration plan.
Let's just start with that.
If you move down from there I think our current view on commodity prices is we want to watch this environment a little longer.
I think we all are recognizing that there is a very steep decline we have seen.
The market has most peoples' estimation not yet quite down the equilibrium and we don't know if that is going to be at a higher price than where the current curve looks like or something lower.
I think as it relates to allocation of capital in '15 David and our growth associated with that we are probably going to want to watch this for a few more months.
When we announce our capital plans in March we will have a much better idea of what we expect.
I think in the past we have been pretty consistent in saying that we want to try to grow through cash flow.
I think the ability to grow through cash flow and cash in this environment and not take on debt to be able to meet your needs makes our balance sheet and the way in which we run our company from a financial discipline perspective consistently unique.
I don't think we have varied from that for quite a while.
Having the kind of cash flow we anticipate with next year coupled with the cash even after paying out Tronox payment we are in pretty good shape to kind of do things next year like we have been doing in years past.
I do want to emphasize that we do see exploration as something that has a longer time horizon than the current price environment and the current forward curve for one year I suggest.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Then just as a follow-up.
Jumping to the Delaware can you - I don't know if you want to take this or whomever but can you talk about expanding your high confidence area.
Maybe I missed in your prepared remarks but last quarter there was a number on the ops report.
Can you talk about where that's at today? I think before you had said 20% or 25%.
Yes.
This is Chuck David.
Our delineation program out in the Delaware has continued to show some really exciting results.
Al mentioned a couple a couple of the wells.
Those wells are about 50 miles apart from Northwest to Southeast across the core of the area so we anticipate expanding our high confidence area as we complete the delineation program here in next six months or so.
We have drilled a large number of wells outside of our high confidence area that we demonstrated last quarter so it's expanding.
We haven't really said how to what degree yet and we will do that in the March investor conference.
All right.
I will let somebody else jump in.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
Al I wanted to start with value acceleration opportunities in the portfolio.
It sounds like you are evaluating a few of those.
I just wanted to see if you could talk about potential materiality.
You have been doing successful call it $500 million-type transactions but I wanted to see if any of these you think would be material in nature? Well I think the best way I can answer your question Arun is being an active portfolio managers is one of the planks of the platform for us.
We have been doing it as you know quite aggressively since 2006 it is something we have done every year since then.
I think you can anticipate we will continue to do more of it in the future.
I think one of the things that we try to do not everything that we look at in our portfolio is scalable so sometimes when we can't achieve scale with the line of business despite the fact that might like the margins associated with it becomes an allocation of capital question for us going forward.
Where we don't either have scalable lines of business or we have things that we believe that are not core we will continue to try to find the right mix of assets based upon what the commodities give us and based up on what the opportunities in our portfolio provide.
As you know quite well being able to feed on capital in our portfolio is a competitive situation.
If we don't have the wellhead margins and we don't have the returns we don't pursue capitalization of or capitalizing rather those funding.
I do think despite good efforts we will always find ourselves at times looking at line of business like we did in China and recognizing that wasn't scalable for us and despite very high-margin barrel there in Bohai Bay it was best that we exit and redeploy that future capital in something else as well as the capital we have been required in China to continue to maintain and develop that asset.
Okay.
Maybe a little bit of a follow-up Al.
How does some of the market volatility I know you are evaluating perhaps to do something with your minerals business which has a lot of value so I just wondered if the market volatility alters that type of the analysis.
I am going to let Bob Gwin address your question because he is the one who has working in that front the hard as with respect to the mineral.
We try to manage our allocation of capital not just in the 12-month forward view but rather what it does over a 5-year and 10-year cycle and how the short and long cycle investing really plays to our advantage.
I think in some of the areas where we are most active Wattenberg is an example obviously we make more money or have better returns on the price of oil per WTI is 100 than it is with 80 but we still have substantial rates of return there that really are not as sensitive there in terms of whether or not our activities are going to falloff.
That is an advantage I think that asset has for us in the way in which we have both the combination of mineral interest and the working interest and the way in which we just drill our wells.
I couldn't be more pleased with the capital efficiency by which we have days on location whether it is the Wattenberg Delaware or the Eagle Ford and how well that compares to industry.
As it relates to just mineral interest as I said I am going to Bob address where he is on that.
Yes.
Hi Arun.
Al touched on the Rockies here and that is that there is a lot of volatility in the commodity market that has led to a lot of volatility in the capital markets.
It has not changed our view or our timing on doing something but it has caused us to realize that as opposed say three to six months ago.
It is not always incredibly high multiples and anyone that think those types of multiples are permanent and sustained across commodity cycles hadn't been paying attention.
We continue to looking we put out a little bit more information on the on the size of the EBITDA associated with the mineral and the royalties in the ops report.
Obviously there are still some really nice growth in that asset.
It continues to increase in its intrinsic value all the time.
What we are trying to do is to make sure that any actions we take preserve the assets is a competitive advantage for Anadarko and put ourselves in position where we can leverage those cash flows into something that is more valuable if we choose to pursue a vehicle in the future.
Needless to say also I think if you looked at some of that historic data some of the EBITDA was relatively flat and more of an annuity and very static and other of it is growing very fast particularly in the areas where we have some rapid activity so we have got some flexibility rather we are continuing to study it continuing to look at it.
We know that its true value continues to increase as it grows over time and that what we end up doing with it in the future is going to be dependent upon how best drives value for Anadarko.
Certainly that will include a consideration of the potential changes in the capital and commodity markets over time.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Arun.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Real quickly looking at the Eaglebine JV that you guys entered into can you give us a little bit more color on structure there and what that does with respect to thinking about how you develop that or ramping development of that in 2015.
Okay.
Chuck and I will tag team on that.
I think as you have heard us say many many times Dave that the power of using third-party capital where everything we do is not a function of why our balance sheet and cash flow by itself can allow for is one of the financial strengths that we try to bring.
Maybe I am a little bias with this but I think we are different in that regard.
We see the Eaglebine as an exciting and potentially really explosive area that we have been watching and being a participant in that for now by ourselves.
As we look at a portfolio that has lots of opportunities to feed capital towards we were to offered a very attractive option here from KKR to partner with us and that basically it just allows us to do with more than just our own capital.
Specifically to the play itself and what that means I will Chuck address that if I can.
As you might be aware and there is a pretty write-up in our quarterly operating report.
On Page 9 if you want to take a look at it.
The Eaglebine has been out there.
We have been working it for something in the order of a couple of years now.
Industry has been fairly active in it is really just the northern extension of Eagle Ford play up into Brazos and Burleson counties.
As we have legacy land position that was associated with Robertson joint development many years ago.
We have had some really good success drilling wells in the Eaglebine as has industry.
We are about 150 000 gross acre positioned around 90 000 acres net.
What we essentially did was deliver a 40% working interest to our JV partner in consideration for a carried drilling interest.
We envision that carry would last in the order of a couple of years and a rig run rate of around two to three rigs ongoing so you will see us begin to execute on the JV.
We are excited we are excited about our partner.
We think it could bring a lot to the table and we really feel good about our prospects of ginning this field up and seeing some meaningful production come out of it in the near future.
Dave I know you know this but I would just emphasize it.
This is one of many where we have done things that were very tax efficient so rather than outright sale being able to the carried interest with which this is structured is a very tax efficient way for us to think about our business.
Again something we consistently do.
David I would just like to finish on one other point.
I would just like to give a shout out to our team that put this together and all the folks that worked with it creating Anadarko.
There out many folks had a realization that our interest position in Eaglebine had a mark-to-market of around $1.1 billion so it's a fantastic piece of work to get these wells drilled the field delineated and the value recognized.
Yes.
I appreciate that.
I was just curious I guess more from a standpoint of would it lead to acceleration of activity there given that you have the carry and that obviously increases the returns in the short cycle cash flow nature of the assets but… Yes.
Thank you.
I am sorry if I didn't make that clear.
Okay.
One last question just quickly in deepwater Gulf of Mexico with Yucatan well results can you talk about how that impacts your thoughts and outlook with respect to the Shenandoah Basin and overall size of the price.
This is Bob Dave.
Yucatan was drilled well down dip of the discovery well as an appraisal looking for where the oil-water contact would come in.
We did find pay in it and the oil-water contact flow successful from that standpoint.
We are now rolling it into our overall mapping and looking at what the volume metrics over Yucatán may be.
Then at Shenandoah we are on the Shenandoah #3 well which again is significantly down dip of Shenandoah 2 looking for the oil-water contact which we never encountered in the Shenandoah 2 appraisal well.
Once we have the Shenandoah down and with the Yucatán results we will start looking at what that overall development options may be out there and how we would aggregate these things together and what the overall resource range might be.
Shenandoah is going to be key in the always may not have a huge oil accumulation there.
It is real important to see what the reservoirs look like as we move across the field to make sure we have good continuity of reservoirs and that they are in pressure communication so we will be getting try to find the oil-water contact try to get good pressure data and we will be taking a sidewalk a whole core out of that well after we penetrate the lower part of the objective section so a lot of work still to do we are still excited about the Shenandoah Basin.
Shenandoah #3 is going to be a real key to us.
Great I appreciate the added color there guys.
Thanks so much.
Good work.
Yes.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask question on the Permian Basin.
Given the success you have had with the midstream in wrapping up at Wattenberg clearly you are making a midstream acquisition in the Permian Basin.
I want to see if that's a real statement on your end as to where the Permian stands in your portfolio whether you see the Permian rivaling Wattenberg as it relate to two core areas within the on-shore portfolio and does that mean that though they are both base load opportunities for capital spending as opposed to variable when we think about volatility in commodity prices.
Well Brian Chuck and I will tag team on this as well.
If you think about what we did in the DJ Basin as we are in the early part of our horizontal drilling program there which really changed the way in which the field was developed by industry.
There we also made acquisitions both from BP and EnCana of processing and gathering systems to allow us to control our takeaway and make eventually and give us rather a better wellhead margins by better price realizations by taking that into Mont Belvieu and away from Conway for the NGLs.
It is a little bit of sort of chapter two in the same book as it relates to how we philosophically see the Delaware.
We talked a lot about and you have seen in our operating reports the result and I will have Chuck walk you through a little bit more granularity on that.
As you think about how you are going to develop that being able to make the acquisition that Western Gas did will enable Anadarko and Western Gas to be able to do something similar to what we did in the DJ basin for exactly the same reasons and it really does have tremendous rates of return associated with what we think will be a production profile coming out of the field over the next 5 to 10 years.
I will say if you compare the Wattenberg to the Delaware going negative as we produce some water which makes a little price sensitive than the Delaware does which has produced water but we did not make the infrastructure investment via Western Gas because we were not excited about it.
We felt like that was an extremely important part of way in which we developed the DJ.
Again it is just the same recipe that we used there for a little bit different asset but we want to make sure we controller our markets.
We want to make sure once we drill our wells they don't sit waiting on pipeline they don't have markets for us to flow into.
Most importantly flow into markets to give us the best price realization.
Philosophically we are looking at the Delaware the same way we did it the DJ in its early years of the horizontal program there but let me let Chuck give a little more color around what he is exactly seeing with the upstream activities and why that went so well with this midstream announcement of yesterday.
I think Al went through it pretty well Brian.
It's an exciting opportunity.
We are making a strategic move to position ourselves so that we can accelerate development and have the most efficient use of our cash and converting into production as quickly as we possibly can.
If you look at the footprint of those assets they are in the western portion of our land position.
That is an area that is fairly void of our midstream infrastructure rather than these wave of new assets so we can quickly incorporate them into our system and we can utilize them in a way that actually increases the utility of all the assets so we had to pull it out in the Delaware Basin and that is something that you we learned to do through the DJ Basin.
As Al mentioned is more of a playbook's as I see it.
We get a lot of top-flight talent that put on these assets little technically in the field.
Then with this large contiguous land position we have 600 000 acres spread over the three counties so the midstream footprint that we have now essentially covers those three counties so I think that will give us a lot of leverage it will give us a lot of early information because we can get these wells online quickly now.
We can loop the two systems together in a way that we can deliver gas to different compressor stations drilling stations processing stations and the most efficient way to move that gas much like we have in the DJ with the big loop around Lancaster.
Now it gets us in a position where in my view anywhere we can move a step closer to pushing the Delaware into sort of the quotations "manufacturing mode" which we sit there and we look at every element of opportunity to drive efficiency into the system.
Without that base infrastructure that is necessary and you have really seen it spades in the DJ.
We have seen the acceleration of that production.
I think in the third quarter of '13 we were producing 100 000 barrels a day.
This quarter we produced 189 000 barrels a day and there were a lot of reasons but I think the midstream infrastructure and our field folks utilizing it to optimize the parameters that we produce under have been just key to their success.
We are using that same playbook here.
As we looked at our position in Delaware and really looked at the various assets that were available we honed in on this one really quickly as being something we could leverage to shorten the time that we would need to take to build out that infrastructure so we can get even a jumpstart.
The results that we have seen in the Delaware today like we mentioned earlier the ramp that we have already seen the ramp we envision I just think this was a spectacular strategic move on our part and I think it is indicative of what we see in the future for the Delaware Basin.
Brian this is Al.
Let me just add one thing to Chuck's comment.
The price environment just looking at the forward curve of oil just whether it is right or wrong we know it's not going to be the same we are just using it as a placeholder.
It's real important we are efficient with what we do.
I mean it takes us about 17 days to drill a Wolfcamp well.
As you see data coming out of this part of the state with public information you will see that there are others that don't drill in 17 days.
They drill it in a lot more than that so your economic limit is a lot different when you are able to be on location fewer days and there is no one today that I am aware of in the Delaware drilling Wolfcamp that can do being on location for 17 days.
Chuck if you got anything you want to further add to that go ahead.
Yes.
17 days is our record and I think that's the kind of opportunity we see in the future but we can really drive down the cost of these wells as we go to pad drilling.
I have an ability to take a pad put a facility and connect it to the processing plant that you can control and manage flows.
There are huge advantages and some folks don't appreciate that I really do think though that if you just look at the DJ it is sort of the example you can see that value.
Yes.
The symbiotic relationship we have Western Gas and how that folds into our business plan I am sure you have seen and yes I know from your write-ups you recognize it but it is a big part of kind of what we do every day.
That is very helpful.
A very small follow-up with regards to divestitures A do you see on-shore opportunities for divestitures? B any update on Brazil and how you are thinking about that? Brian it's Bob Gwin.
Sure.
Al talked earlier about the reasons we look at certain things for divestitures in terms of the way that they attract capital or their scalability and that goes for on-shore as well as anywhere else in the world so we continue to look at the on-shore assets and try to drive the efficiency and the overall return to growth of the portfolio as well as possible.
When it comes to Brazil no update on Brazil the unitization process continues.
As we have said we don't expect anything to occur prior to unitizations but our team is working on a development plan for Wahoo where we operate because given that we can't really control the pace of the unitization we want to make sure that we continue to drive the value of the asset and that although we would still expect to exit over time we wanted to have the best asset available to us to sell when that time comes.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Al I wonder if I could try a couple also.
The Delaware Basin first of all it seems that there was a number of moving parts on the infrastructure transaction and I guess you probably wanted to fair most of the commentary to WES but what I am interested is given the oil price environment how does the Delaware in your mind compete for capital within the portfolio.
I guess I am curious as to why not so much reluctance but why the decision to wait on given us an update on let's say the inventory and the de-risk area given the that at least from what we can see some of your wells - in the high confidence area are some of the best wells you drilled to-date so any color on that would be great.
Thanks.
Well one thing is we are still leasing so we are not really excited about talking any more than what we are and later this morning Western Gas when it does its earnings call will go into greater detail about how wave fits into the Western Gas story and synergy that it has with Anadarko associated with that.
I think the details associated with all that are best left to the Western Gas call.
From the standpoint of just what we are doing there I think we would prefer to wait till March to give you the rollout of everything.
Some of that where we will have a better understanding where the hydrocarbon environment is for natural gas and NGLs and oil at that point.
I think Doug you know this quite well but are probably others don't.
I mean this is an unusual hydrocarbon mix.
We think on average we are looking at about 70% cut of 40 degree oil with plenty of gas in the system to give us reservoir energy and a nice NGL cut but this is an unusual to-date mix of oil coming out here which we think personally and I think as the company over time the refinery complex in the U.S.
will be quite interested in having 40 degree crude oil coming in as the feedstock versus the oil that shows up today that has a lot of other things in it that they have to separate.
It could be real advantage force us as markets find better equilibrium for prices than they do today but the details associated with what we are doing there anymore than kind of where we are today just simply we think this environment being where it is gives us an opportunity to acquire things in this basin that could be advantageous to us and today we announced with Western this Nuevo transaction after the market close yesterday but if you think about what we did the DJ this is exactly the way we went about our business in the DJ and there the horizontal drilling program over time we talked about more we had performances because Chuck was very slow to give big EURs and slow to give big ranges of what we thought the resource capability will be to until we will have more - Chuck? Yes Doug.
My sense is that we have about 45 wells that are in some stages of production.
Most are just really getting started so our view is that by the spring we will have another 150 days 180 days of production on those wells.
Most of them will have that order of magnitude of production on them.
I think we can give you some really good information then with regard to what our per well type curves look like the way that it varies across the field and the mixes that we see across the field and why we see those.
I think if you step back far enough Doug and you look at this basin this is a world-class basin.
It is a spectacular oilfield.
We told you it has 100 million barrels of oil in place on each section and we are very fortunate to already captured in excess of the 1 000 sections so we are really excited about the scope scale opportunity here.
If you sit out there today and you drill one well as scattered throughout the field the economics are okay but they certainly have room for improvement.
It is really when we get into the large scale development we can pad real leverage our infrastructure and continuously learn from our activities and I see these economics taken off.
We are away from that today but I see this thing being very competitive within Anadarko in the very near future in a meaningful way and for a long time.
Even if we were restricted to just to our higher confidence area which clearly the results outside the delineation area would certainly point you in a much larger program even if you are restricted in that higher confidence area where we have and we pad drilled.
This thing is meaningful material to Anadarko and I think it will only get better for us with time.
I appreciate your answers guys.
I am going to apologize in advance for this next question.
I am going to try this and see what stick (Inaudible) it is kind of related to the Delaware but also to the non-core assets on portfolio if there were such a thing.
As you get closer to Mozambique the enabling law the one thing that [jumps] to us is there seems to be some concerns around - more concerns around some speculation that Mozambique government would really like to have a large established LNG markets were in place.
Again I am kind of going in (Inaudible) here to some extent.
When I look at your working interest position in the Delaware and only enabling infrastructure and all the things you are doing there there seems to be a fairly obvious solution.
I am just curious if your Mozambique is a strategic asset or is it a core asset? Well I think today I highlighted those.
I mean we have really gotten a lot done with the government.
The government was proactive in getting enabling all past during the quarter.
As we move from enabling language into the Decree Law that will obviously set the stage for plan of development for next year.
Then finally a final investment decision after the POD but if we don't get an acceptable Decree Law we don't have a lot to worry about because simply put if you think about it we sold down 10% working interest in Mozambique.
In after-tax we had about $2.1 million as a result of that transaction.
That recovered around $1 billion of money that we invested in the country and gave us after-tax close to or certainly within shouting distance the amount of money that we would need to equity finance the development are not covered by project financing.
Today as we sit here we are in the position of making sure that the Decree Law does what we needed to do for all the contractual and governmental support we need to see.
Then it allows us as we move into the big dollars spend because I know you know this but just simply as we look at it we are looking to spend close to $15 billion to put all of the 100% interest associated with the onshore LNG part in place and all that goes with that government and then the subsea architecture associated with the drilling of the wells themselves.
The big money is front us but the good news is I think unlike any other operator of any LNG project that I have seen or been able to take into consideration as we are sitting here looking at submitting a plan of development assuming we get the Decree Law language that the government has promised us they will deliver we are not financially in need of going to first production to get our money back.
As we get the first liftings we have already covered our money and have the ability using the common cash as fungible we de-risk this financially in a way that I am not sure anybody has ever de-risk an LNG project for.
Options in terms of what we want to do with it how we want to proceed with it will always be ours but I am really proud of the way in which this company financially de-risk a long cycle investment and the way in which we have been able to do it because sometimes when you have tremendous exploration success finding one of the largest gas reserves in the world ever could have caused us a lot of problems somewhat through our success but we managed that that success very well with the financial discipline that we have sown over and over again.
I appreciate the answer.
Maybe just a very quick follow-up Shell has been divesting a lot of assets in [Wolf] 48 you know percentage increase and working interest in the Delaware? We have seen no interest from them.
They have not expressed any and I am not aware of any Shell is a partner of ours in a lot of places around the world.
They are certainly very good at what they do.
If there was ever a dialogue I am sure we would always listen to.
I think one of the things we are doing today is we are pretty commercial.
We are willing to listen to things that people want us to consider but I today don't see any indication publicly or - and we have been with Shale privately.
This conversation has never occurred so I don't have any reason to think they would want to to be honest.
Appreciate the answers.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning Al and to the rest of your team there.
If I could go back to the 2015 CapEx question I think if I heard you correctly when you said it is too early now that you are looking at it like the markets have settled and that exploration is going to be a part of your program in any commodity price.
Can you talk about what the different options or levers you guys would be evaluated as you go into March.
It's my way of thinking it's up not that it would be the best thing to do but maybe the easiest or the most continuous adjustment possible is on the North American convention program but could you just talk about what your priority is and how your process internally would look as you as you evaluate that? You bet.
I think we simply think about allocating capital in '15 philosophically in a way where we can grow our margins through wellhead and grow our EBITDAX per share.
Those are important things for us to be able to do with their capital while still invest in our future.
It is very important that we invest in things that we will need in our pipeline through the balance of the decade.
As I think about how to do the [former] it's resemble there is three big plays on-shore today that we believe will feed on a lot of our capital.
How much? I couldn't tell you today because I don't see enough clarity around what the price environment is going to be for next year both for the commodity as well as for the service cost but Delaware Wattenberg and Eagleford are the places where we will spend the majority of our on-shore capital as well as the majority of our overall capital as we think about '15.
Got it.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Then if I could pick up a bit on the thread of the midstream questions.
This is specifically about the Wattenberg but because there is a bigger question of how applicable this is to the rest of your of development on-shore the U.S.
it looks like as we look over last year it is tremendous that the year-over-year growth nearly a double and a big chunk of that was enabled by this Lancaster plant.
As we are looking at -assuming we should have the commodity price environment where growth is the order of the day should we expect a more continuous ramp from this point now that you have dealt with some of the midstream constraints or should we expect things to be lumpy as they have been in the last 12 months is that going to be the more typical pattern going forward? Well one of the things we try to do and I think we have done a pretty good job of it is to have our midstream spend synced up with our up-stream spend so you are going to have a little bit of what Chuck has referred to in the past where we load the spring.
As we load the spring in the Delaware it is going to be a little likely loaded the spring in the DJ and you are going to see the impact come I would not say lumpy but as much as in wave as we develop things associated with how he loads that spring.
I also would just point out to you that one of the reasons that we invest in exploration long-term is we have things like Lucius and Heidelberg that come into the mix over the balance of the decade.
Today I have every confidence in the world that our deepwater international exploration activities will produce results that will give us additional production that I don't even know where it is going to be today.
I have high degree of confidence that we are not just an on-shore unconventional resource company but rather we are a cocktail mix of conventional and unconventional in domestic and international.
A cocktail mix and I will just make one more in there.
What should we look for on the Lucius development? What kind of… Before I got to Lucius let me let Chuck as I was going to let Chuck add one more thing to that comment if I could.
Yes Charles.
I appreciate you pointing out the growth in Wattenberg.
It's actually just been particular.
The way we look at it we had a lot of opportunity I know that - as Al mentioned on Wattenberg when we turned Lancaster.
The other thing that we were not quite certain how it would work but we felt like it would be good it was how the average yield in the field would go up at our plants once we got the high capacity cryogenic plants in place.
There's a really good graphic in the quarterly operating report that shows so that has been a huge benefit to us.
We are actually already constructing Lancaster 2 because we see a continuation of that growth in Wattenberg.
I am not sure that as you grow it almost doubling it's really that lumpy.
It has just been really nice.
What we see going on a sort of more steady-state growth and maybe 8 000 to 10 000-type barrels a quarter.
It could vary a little just depending upon when we are connecting compressors pads and all that kind of thing but I don't anticipate seeing this sort of year-over-year growth from here on but I still a really strong growth pattern.
We will have additional midstream capacity that we will be putting in and we have a nice active rig program.
Fourth quarter as we look out we are going to have a lot of will Absolute timing in those will dictate the amount of growth that we have in the next year depending on how we turn out on capital.
That will dictate what this gross rate is but we see a lot of capacity for growth for a long time.
Charles I think you had a question about Lucius.
I am sorry.
I apologize I cut you off a little bit.
No.
I was one who jumped in there.
What should we look to participants in the public markets for the [midstream] when you add on how that start up goes.
This is Jim.
We have had a real good the progress made in our Lucius project here over the last quarter.
We have got all the subsurface architecture installed although (Inaudible) have been pulled and we are in the final stages of hook up in commission on the off-shore facilities.
Additionally we have had two rigs in the field during the final stages of completions on our fourth and our fifth well.
The six well will start here very soon but the initial tests on the completion show extremely strong wells.
In fact we have got PIs or productivity indexes that are higher than what we anticipate so it really goes to the credit of our subsurface team for characterizing the reservoir for drilling and completions groups on installing very high efficiencies in our completions and we anticipate here in the next coming weeks to introduce first hydrocarbons through the facility.
We will go through a very careful and prudent ramp-up of these wells as we bring them on.
That should start here towards the end of the month and we will transition over the next few months into full production.
Lucius facility has a nameplate capacity of 80 000 barrels a day and we have got about 24% working interest so that gives you an idea of what we should expect to see from a net production standpoint.
Got it.
Thank you for the detail.
Operator? Thank you.
Just one moment for your next question.
Operator do you have someone else in the queue with the question? Yes we do.
We are just having a technical difficulty just for a moment.
Just a moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Portillo of TPH.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Matt sorry I am not sure what caused you to have to wait but sorry about that.
No problem.
Just one quick question for me maybe two areas where you guys have talked about some early delineation but probably don't get as much airtime as the major three basins would be the PRB and your exposure in Laramie County.
I was wondering if you could just provide us an update and kind of your general thoughts around those two areas in terms of some of the delineation work you are doing currently and maybe some of the incremental data you are getting in terms of the well results you have seen so far.
Thanks Matt.
This is Chuck.
Both of those looked like really exciting areas for us.
We are participating in Laramie County with EOG and others.
Certainly the early returns out there look exciting.
They are probably in a better position to give you individual well results and those types of things.
In general we see it is a fairly large opportunity several townships and it is right.
It cuts right through our land grant so we are excited about that because of our not only our working interest position but the royalty advantage that we have.
We are also looking up and down the land grant for similar ideas and I think that may be as exciting as the Laramie County discovery itself so we have continued to look that so it could lead to other things along the land grant.
Our view is that it's been going on for six or eight months now and that a pretty short order.
Probably at the Investor conference we will give you some more detail on what we see as the tight curves and maybe the prospectively of production that we see in the future.
It's good [oil] it's good type of things kind of things we produce at Wattenberg and really good we are excited about it and we are going to keep going on with it.
When you move up in the Powder River Basin we really shifted our focus into the Southern Powder where we have a really substantial land position.
We have been running one or two rigs up there for a while now testing different-different horizons the frontier and the Niobrara.
We are seeing some good results out of each.
We are really sizing those up and down trying to get an idea of the - extent and potential development options that we have.
I see us coming to conclusions on those activities sometime next year.
Then kicking off a development program that would be inclusive of the pad drilling and alike so both look exciting both are very oily which of course we like.
Both of them are new opportunities that we could add to our shorter win toward which we are very excited about.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Two quick ones one for Chuck and one for Bob Chuck any well completion design changes at all on the Wattenberg? Plug and perf versus sliding sleeve or just business as normal? Then for Bob in Mozambique I will probably mispronounce this but Orca well which was a down dip situation was dry does that change anything in your outlook from a resource base? That is all.
Yes.
Thanks John.
I will take the first one on the DJ.
We continue to test John different frac designs and the mechanical methods by which we do them.
We have typically particularly as our laterals have got a little longer have tended more toward the plug and perf methods just because of the mechanical necessity of that.
The risk of the other methods the one thing that we are putting a lot of focus on right now and I think this offers us some opportunity going forward.
As we continue to test tighter and tighter spacing we are learning a whole lot about how these fracs interact with each other.
- Well the well and those types of things so we are working on in designs to optimize that whole was opposed on an individual basis.
That really seems to be - we are learning a lot and I think that there's some opportunity in that arena so it's not really just business as usual because we are continuing to learn we are continuing to optimize that sort of the total picture and I think there is better things to come as we move forward.
John this is Bob regarding the Mozambique - no it doesn't impact our resource estimations at all.
That was an exploratory well.
We are looking for some different targets in there.
We were unsuccessful.
Meanwhile we are drilling again with true appraisal wells in order for that have the potential to increase resources in the Orca 4 that has the potential to increase the resources in Orca accumulation and we are trying to define what that is and then we will be moving over to the Tubarao Tigre-2 which is the first appraisal of that discovery we have made this year so that would be additional resources to the overall numbers but their recent MR was more was no impact whatsoever.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold of RBC.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Since we are on Mozambique I just had a couple of quick follow-ups here.
First on additional exploration activities is there anything else you will need to do to secure any of that acreage at this point in time or is there any other areas that that you would kind of step out yet.
Then two once Decree Law is in place can you give us a sense of the timeframe how long it takes to get the on-shore project in place.
When we could see first production? Is it a two-year processes just kind of a general context around that? Scott I will start with just the offshore wells.
The wells that we are drilling now are to try to lock up what acreage we can hold throughout discovery licenses.
Then potentially take into development of licenses.
Right now we have the Prosperidade complex the Golfinho/Atum already blocked up.
Orca is being delineated this year.
With that we will submit the area that we want to hold with it.
Tubarao Tigre we are appraising as I mentioned next and we will submit an initial area so that will pretty much block up most of the northern two-thirds of the off-shore block.
Meanwhile on the on-shore block we were drilling a well at Tembo our first exploratory well of this new campaign so second we brought on-shore and that's about halfway down.
We are already seeing some encouragement in it but we have a ways to go to get to totaled depth and then we will be moving on to another on-shore block or another on-shore prospect called Kifaru afterwards.
There is a lot of activity still going on the timing of the two blocks is a little different but we do want to get the blocks in the off-shore held as much as possible and to find the resources we have and then the exploration activity could lead to further delineation work in the on-shore.
I think regarding to your second question on Mozambique timing as Al mentioned we have done tremendous amount of work in parallel with agreements we are putting in place with the government.
The critical path to sanction of the project is based off of obtaining an acceptable to Decree Law with the government.
Once that's completed we will submit a plan of development which outlines the full development both commercially and in our timeframe of doing so.
Assuming we get approved plan of development and we have project financing and all of our sale and purchase agreements completed from a marketing standpoint we would be in a position to take financial investment decisions sometime second half of next year and that would initiate the infrastructure development because this is a very remote part of Mozambique with little to no infrastructure roads or port access we will have to build quite a bit of common infrastructure which includes roads facilities and camps to house people.
Some of that work is being conducted right now on the form of site characterization which was necessary for the environmental impact assessment which has been submitted and approved.
If we get the FID we would launch the EPC contracts for both off-shore and on-shore development and expected timeframe of the project this size from project sanctioned to first production is generally four years so it's a very large build out multiple facets including ports airports camp capabilities and power generations and corporate a large-scale development so that timeframe we are looking at the first cargo first lifting in about 2019.
Okay.
That’s great color.
A quick follow-up I know you guys talked a lot on the Delaware Basin and infrastructure.
With regards to the acquisition you all that Western had made is their capacity on that system or you what's your ability to kind of move oil and gas on that system? Yes.
The capacity announced if you read the releases it is roughly 300 million cubic feet of process and expanding rapidly to 700 million during the course of 2015 so that will be a quite a bit of capacity on it.
I think the other key infrastructure that we really had a lot of interest in with some of the gas gathering assets that were associated with it.
There weren't any oil assets associated with this one but the gas gathering assets if you get a chance take a look at that map and where those pipelines go it actually runs right through what we call our checkerboard area Western Reeves County.
We see that areas as very prospective.
That is where one of the large wells that Al mentioned earlier is located so what we hope to do is take those assets combine them with our current DB JV activity that we have.
It's the Anadarko position that we have with regard to our current existing gas infrastructure and combine them loop them so that we can actually get even more throughput out of the entirety of the system and retain any one leg so it's going to take some work it is going to take some ingenuity and sometime.
If you look at it it has all the makings of a really complete field-wide gathering system when you combine these assets with the existing ones.
I apologize there was probably a word question - what I meant to ask is that of the 300 million a day is there already firm locked up on a lot of that stuff.
When I look at Anadarko the incremental capacity that is being added should I expect that you guys should be a large amount of that additional firm? We would not be a large amount the additional but as we do the expansion it would be a very significant producer that those.
Okay.
Scott before you get off the line I just want to say it didn't go unnoticed by me this morning that you raised your price target on us a $2 per share in light of all of the market noise and things that we have been achieving through the course of the year.
We really appreciate that.
We also recognize that you and others saw the quarter being extremely good quarter and I understand that the tax situations associated with the Tronox payment coupled with timing of the tanker lifting being a few weeks here and there doesn't really mean you missed the quarter.
It actually means you knocked the ball out of the park for the quarter and those events are beyond our control.
Nonetheless the things that we do control we've done a really good job of controlling.
Again thank you for raising your price target.
It is a well deserved.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Maybe a different strategic midstream question and some ways an extension of your Wattenberg relative success and potential at the Permian front the Nuevo deal and potentially into off-shore so I believe in your off-shore infrastructure assets in WES today can you discuss the priority or potential to monetize some of those assets.
As you look at future GoM developments does the ability to monetize a portion of that CapEx via WES factor in your returns or analysis? I mean to me it looks like a large opportunity unique to the Gulf of Mexico unique to Anadarko and the end game has to be most midstream in WES I would presume.
Evan it's Bob Gwin.
I think the best way to think about WES is an onshore midstream owner and operator and developer.
I think the off-shore we have certainly considered some of that over time.
The risk return characteristics don't necessarily fit WES's profile as well and some if not a lot of our off-shore assets are leased.
As you have seen we have been decommissioning some of the legacy spars etcetera.
I wouldn't think down that path.
I think the growth potential at WES is certainly top-quartile top rate relative to MLP universe.
The overall risk profile is significantly limited to really throughput where commodity price risk has been eliminated and that has been reflected in the yield and evaluation of both WES and increasingly WGP which will benefit substantially from the Nuevo transaction as well.
I think WES more the same driving organic growth along with potential drop downs in the future and third-party acquisitions like this large one is a combination that makes a lot more sense than and the exposure WES has all of Anadarko's large on-shore growth plays is really the place.
I see that business model developing probably also though a good question for Don Sinclair on WES's earnings call at 11 o'clock this morning.
Got it.
I appreciate it.
Good acquisition there.
Thank you.
We are pretty excited about it.
Okay.
Well I think we have run passed the top of the hour operator.
Consistent with the way in which we do these every quarter and not going to bleed into earnings calls for other the company.
We probably ought to bring to closure there.
Again I want to think the employees of Anadarko for yet another great quarter.
We continue to work hard for shareholders.
We are going to continue to work hard in the days and weeks ahead to finish out the year strong as we can and appreciate the encouragement we have gotten from many of you over the course of the year.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.