The next question will come from Matt O’Conner with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was hoping just to follow-up on your comment about further capital actions given the strategic changes.
I don’t know if that’s just referring to the CCAR process earnings were higher there has been more stability so think about higher payouts or was there something else that you are referring to maybe related to selling the commodities business bring up capital things like that? Why don’t I take that? I think we’re just pointing out that in the context of all the things going on at this time we are obviously building pretty solid capital buffers.
That said we live in a dynamic regulatory environment with potentially new G-SIFI buffers coming out but we feel strongly about where we are with our capital base and we feel strongly about where we're going coming into the CCAR process.
We certainly expect to continue to return capital to shareholders in increasing amounts over the coming years.
And then have you guys disclosed either the assets or revenue related to the commodities business either what you sold or just the entire unit? No we haven’t.
Okay.
And then just separately there was an article in the paper a couple of weeks ago related to the dividend arbitrage that some clients are using that the US broker dealers and global broker dealers are helping.
I am just wondering how big a business is that for you guys and remind us of the seasonality around that and thoughts on I guess just the business going forward.
As we said repeatedly our equity business is strong diversified across products and regions and that's what drives it.
We don't break out particular pieces and there are seasonal patterns throughout the year.
Okay is that an area that you think you and others will pull back a little bit given just that it's being highlighted and maybe scrutinize a bit more than the past.
It is one of the number of services that we provide to clients and it's really based on client activity.
Okay.
And then just lastly the non-comp I mean expenses overall actually came in pretty good this quarter in general.
The non-comp in particular has been managed down quite nicely.
Is there anything I guess from here or more that you could do or should we think about this as a pretty reasonable run rate?  Our view is that there is more to do.
We remain very focused on expenses overall and if you go back to 2012 when we first laid out our expense reduction goals we had an expense ratio at that time of about 84% and we indicated by the end of this year we’d get to 79% or lower.
Year-to-date we're at 77% but the process of going over the last couple of years is really to provide the analytics the tools the dashboards to the businesses to ensure that engrained throughout the organization is a real focus on expenses and expense management and we view that as an ongoing part of the way we run the business.
As I talked about at a recent conference we divide our expenses into what we call run the bank and change the bank and we've been able to extract savings and run the bank to fund what we called change the bank requirements which include both regulatory requirements as well as ongoing innovation in the business investments to ensure we're enhancing client experience and applications and across the platform.
So again we got a very strict lens on that because it does create incremental capacity as well and we think it's the appropriate way to run the overall franchise.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Can you just updates us on the FICC RWA this quarter and maybe just more strategically as we think outward if there is more pressure from regulators with the SIFI surcharge on top of a surcharge focused primarily on repo and other aspects of the fixed income business do you think that that there could be some changes in trying to push the RWA lower overtime.
Thanks.
So risk weighted assets in fixed income are $191 billion this quarter down from $192 billion last quarter.
We just had less roll off this quarter and we remain very comfortable with the $180 billion target for fixed income which was originally end of 2016.
We pulled it forward to end of 2015.
As I indicated at a recent conference we want to make it clear though that there not -- just as with the non-comp expense question there is not a line in the sand on a particular date or activity stops beyond the $180 billion.
There is about $25 billion incremental risk weighted assets that run off overtime in areas like structured credit and long dated and collateralized derivatives which generated a negative ROE because we have to finance positions legacy positions and so as we exit we take those from a negative ROE to neutral and as we redeploy them you shift to a positive ROE and we're already generating strong ROEs in a number of business within fixed income like credit and securitized products and so we have an opportunity to reallocate to get a higher return on those and that's really the way we're looking at what we're doing within fixed income.
As it relates to changing regulatory requirements and the potential surcharge I would note that our ratios are very strong.
The transitional ratio at 14.3% and even fully phased in as we’re talking about 11.7% standardized 12.6% advanced.
So what we’re really looking at is how to best optimize within each business to drive the ROE within each business and we believe we’ve got room to really use a number of different levers to do that.
All right.
So that’s helpful so if you think about the 180 there’s 25 that’s sort of run off beyond that but you might be re-investing depending upon the environment.
Is that the way to think about it? Yeah depending on the environment and client activity because we have the opportunity already resident within a number of products within fixed income to generate an attractive return.
So depending on requirements there’s ample capacity.
Okay great thanks.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Mike Mayo with CLSA Hi what inning are you in in redeploying the deposits that you achieved from the joint venture? So we are -- what inning you frequently do ask the inning question.
I think we’re well on our way and I think let me give a couple of parts to that.
The early days I guess you would say even pre-game was building the infrastructure required to support the growth when once we closed out the acquisition and started onboarding the deposits.
And so that a very important element of really the setup ensuring that we had the infrastructure the risk management the banker supporting the financial advisors.
So that as the deposits started onboarding we could have positive growth a good experience for our financial advisors as I already addressed and see the kind of roll-out that we’ve had.
The other thing is we’ve emphasized repeatedly that our focus is on prudent loan growth prudent loan growth within wealth management and institutional securities and we have two broad franchises that enable us to have strong demand.
But what we’ve been focused on is really prudent loan growth and so we have ample capacity beyond here we’ve been closing the gap versus the industry average but still believe we have ample capacity beyond here to grow and that is just with the contractual onboarding of deposits where as you’ve seen this quarter there’s organic on top of the contractual.
So we view this as the opportunity to have the [inaudible] depository embedded within Morgan Stanley that creates substantial incremental opportunity in a flat rate environment or a rising rate environment and I’ll give it to James because he tends to like cricket matches and they last a lot longer and that’s the way we view this this bank has got a long way to go.
Well I'm not sure you’re asking about cricket innings but if I were to put a number on it I’d say we are somewhere around the bottom of the fourth in baseball and the afternoon tea session on day two of a five day test match.
Okay how much do interest rates help if they increase and how much do they hurt if they don’t increase.
I mean some of the more traditional banking peers will actually quantify this for us and you guys haven’t done that.
Can you just help size the benefit or the harm? Yes I’m glad you asked that question because it’s an important one given the way we see the outlook for the bank.
So overall rising rates are a good thing.
They do benefit the bank if we deploy deposits into lending and AFS.
And second it should signal an improving economy which would increase activity levels across the franchise.
But the main point and I tried to indicate that in the opening comments is that the main driver of NII growth is deposit deployment and you can see that in our year-over-year numbers we’re benefiting from deploying these legacies city deposits and with more coming on board we have a positive impact even without rates rising.
And so you take that -- that to us is really differentiated and managed we’re pleased to see the underlying growth in NII again even without rates increasing.
So now you put to the other side at some point rates will increase and for modeling a couple of key points.
I guess the first is that the reason we’ve gone through this the giving you contractual deposit on-boarding kind of what the schedule is and what the current asset mix and what the target asset mix is is that you can model the rate impact whenever you do expect it to occur.
The other component in modeling that we think about is one what’s the impact of higher rates on deposit outflows and the data suggests that for Morgan Stanley that would be de minimis because our deposits our working capital and client accounts are very sticky.
We’ve talked about that in some prior calls.
In terms of deposit pricing we model that based on historic data from both Morgan Stanley as well as for retail deposits at regional and large money center banks notwithstanding the fact that as I just said our deposits do behave very differently than those retail deposits and our analysis in our model would reflect about a 45 basis points increase in deposit pricing with the first hundred basis points increase in rates.
We do believe that is conservative given the nature of our deposits and structural changes in deposit alternatives.
But it’s what we would assume kind of as something to put into a model.
Fed funds is the most relevant rate for our business and the last point is that the average duration of our bank assets is about 1.5 year.
So rising rates do benefit us quickly.
So the way we look at it is in the flat environment there’s upside given NII growth but it’s all about asset optimization in a rising rate environment given the factors I went through and the cost structure of our bank no bricks and mortar the investments have already been made any rise in rates does drops nicely to the bottom line.
Just two quick follow-ups the deposit data of 45% seem somewhat low compared to many traditional banks.
Are you sure about that I mean it’s not a whole lot of sensitivity there? When we look at the data that we’ve looked at overtime and again given the nature of the deposits as I indicated our view is that that’s appropriate given the nature of the business and as I said that we’re talking about the first hundred basis points so it moves overtime.
And then low rates it stays lower for longer what impact does that have on your refinancing of your debt.
You issued a lot of debt when your credit spreads were blown out a few years ago and now they’ve come in.
Can you take advantage of that? We can and we have because we’ve started refinancing debt as you noted came on kind of came on in the 2010-‘11 period.
We do realize the benefit overtime given the weighted average maturity of our unsecured debt is about six years.
So we would lag into any benefits overtime but at this point we’re refinancing debt we issued post crisis and there’s a benefit.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
A quick one first the $141 million gain that you laid out was that only on that real estate sale or does it also include the gain on TransMontaigne? That no it’s just on the real estate.
Okay can you -- is it possible to quantify the TransMontaigne gain was that significant? We don’t break that up that’s included within the other revenue line and just as a reminder that also includes the contribution from our joint venture with NUFG for the real estate at [inaudible] there is a number -- it’s in the other line items in that one.
Okay so I guess though given the fact that you broke it out would imply that you didn’t view it as a material number and it wasn’t material enough to break out is that fair? It’s included as I said within the other line.
All right and then thinking about the rest of the physical business and the potential sale to Rosneft what are the next steps if that doesn’t go through here by year-end can you start to shop the asset now is there any sort of change that can be made proactively on that front? Well as you know and the way you framed the question the terms of the contract are such that if the deal doesn’t close by year-end the contract expires and so we’re considering alternatives if that doesn’t close.
Okay is it possible also while on the physical commodity front to think about what growth rates might have been if we exclude either the TransMontaigne component of these physical commodities revenue out of FICC or physical commodities overall just given that it’s getting shopped? So yeah TransMontaigne would have been immaterial to the results and as we indicated commodities overall was very low.
It was down meaningfully year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
So it wasn’t much of comp produced in across commodities generally.
Okay so it is possible that the growth rate might have been higher if we ex out the physical business? Yes.
Right and then one last one just when we talk about the loan book a lot of times we focus on the wealth management and I'm just kind of curious you disclosed that always half of the loan growth is going to be coming from the institutional side.
How should we think about the NII from those loans flowing through your P&amp;L and generally how should we think about the spreads on those loans versus the loans in your wealth management business.
Is there a way to sort of frame how to think about that side of the loan growth? Yes it’s a fair question because as you know in IS in the institutional securities business NII is a function of a number of factors.
So it’s not as easy to parse through as in wealth management.
Just to give you some loan growth numbers so in wealth management I think I indicated securities based-lendings up $2 billion residentials up $1.5 billion and institutional securities we were up $1.5 billion on the quarter primarily in commercial real estate and we are focused continuing to build the diversified portfolio and our focus is on lending in areas where we have strong client franchise strong domain knowledge.
So the other element of it is it’s enhancing our overall client experience within institutional securities.
It’s in addition to what we are already doing with key clients.
And so it’s reflected there as well and it’s in our view accretive to the overall relationship.
We have some slides that we have used in prior conferences that give you yields on a blended basis.
Okay.
And when we think about those yields and how that those yields play in my guess is or my sense should be that the level of competition in those markets is probably a bit more intense than you would see on the retail side.
Is that a correct assumption or is that off base? Well again as I said part of it is on both sides wealth management and institutional securities what we are doing is really focused on our client base and in institutional securities it’s adding on to what we are doing within our key franchises.
So that we view all of our businesses as competitive.
We don’t take anything we are doing with any of our clients for granted but we have got in our view a strong opportunity and what we said repeatedly is that we are focused on prudent loan growth.
It’s not as though we are looking to originate volume merely to originate volume.
There is a substantial opportunity within our client base on both sides of the house and the key lens as you have probably heard us say too many types prudent loan growth and it’s driven with the title funds on risk management and that’s what’s key to the way we are looking to build the Bank here.
Okay thanks for the color Ruth.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Just on -- some of the regulatory ratios any update on the bank SLR or the LCR? So the bank given we capitalize the bank to support the loan growth that I am pleased that we have been talking about a lot on this call we are in a strong position on all the various capital ratios; LCR SLR and again it’s because we capitalize the bank to support what we expect will be ongoing loan growth.
Okay and then small items but just in terms of the tax outlook and then also the CVA just wanted to find out significant this quarter or kind of an average level? So in terms of the first part of your question overtime given our business mix the tax rate should be around 30% and then on CVA it was positive this quarter.
It was a drag last quarter and last year but one point that is worth noting is fixed income excluding commodities was up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year and if you exclude CVA that same trend would apply.
So the business fixed income products broadly excluding commodities up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year excluding CVA.
Okay and then just on trading so on commodities anything in the quarter that you would say was like a one-off versus environmental and that’s more going into the fourth quarter and the next year and then I guess same thing on equities just given the relative strength anything that you would say was especially strong that you wouldn’t expect to continue? No so starting with commodities not -- nothing specific to call out and so our view is that what we are looking at appears to be structural headwinds in certain commodities markets and as a result the key question is how to best maximize returns if in fact these are structural headwinds.
And but there was nothing specific there and similarly in equities we had broad-based strength again across products and geographies just given the leadership in that business.
We did benefit from a strong global underwriting calendar but I would say that’s kind of core to the overall franchise and the strength of what we are doing in equity underwriting generally and the equity underwriting calendar remains strong but nothing specific to call out as broad-based strength again.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
I guess just to add one of the things to note is that we have seen in the past that challenging result in overall poor performance.
You often see reallocation but overall I think that one of the key things is typically activity slows as you go into the end of the year in particular with prime brokerage clients we've seen that in prior years.
All right.
Thanks.
The next question will come from Fiona Swaffield with RBC.
Hello.
I just had two questions.
Firstly was on just understanding the compensation ratio sequentially a bit better because you took out the gain in your analysis on the pretax margins so I assume you should also do the same on the comp ratio and if we do that obviously has approved less could you also explain this issue of the employee deferred comp and how that would affect the comp ratio sequentially? And the second question is on the SLR could you talk a bit more about the balance sheet or the denominator it obviously seems to have gone down which is helping and is there more prospect of that continuing.
Thanks.
Certainly.
So I am starting with the SLR 4.9% versus 4.6% last quarter.
We had a contribution from both the numerator and denominator.
The benefit on the denominator was actually primarily for mitigation of the gross up and so we've been talking for quite some time about the number of work streams against which we've been executing including the net long CDS sold the pickup in compression activities the reductions in fixed income RWAs overtime and that was the bulk of the benefit that we saw on the denominator.
As you noted we also had a decrease in our GAAP balance sheet but the other items were a contributor to the benefit from the denominator.
And then on the numerator beyond earnings we did have a prep issuance this past quarter.
Those two drove the numerator higher.
In fact the split between the numerator and the denominator was about two-thirds of the benefit came from the numerator one-third came from the denominator.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Christian Bolu with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just quick one on FVA a number of your peers have now implemented this adjustment to [inaudible] of these books curious on your latest thoughts on where Morgan Stanley stands on this.
So FVA referring obviously to fair value adjustments refers to the potential implied financing cost for uncollateralized derivatives and only to the extent that those are observable we do continue to evaluate it.
As you noted there is a lot of industry discussion there has also been a lot of academic discussion on the topic but in our view transparency continues to be lacking so there is no basis to take the adjustments.
Okay and then quickly on VaR that came down particularly interest rates credit lines assume there was more connectivity during quarter so just curious if you could parse out the decline debits we position in versus volatility.
It's come down I think in line with overall this activity level is coming down we see it and you noted one line I would say that in commodities it also came down so it was really just more in line with connectivity.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
James I appreciate your comments on your CCAR focus internally and clearly you made considerable progress delivering stronger return over the last four quarters and one thing I was little bit surprised by just looking at your latest company run mid stress test is that your PPNR forecast of $8.3 billion was it meaningfully different than your prior company run submissions? And I was wondering this merely reflects increased conservatism on your part in an effort to maybe match the Feds historically conservative view of your PPNR profile and just given the progress that you've made over the last 12 months assuming no meaningful changes to the CCAR guidelines would you expect to see a better result this coming year? Why don't I just take the top line for a minute on the better results this year? We didn't ask something that we didn't get last year so it's not like we have been restrictive we have behaved according to what we thought was the right balance for the business and the right balance for capital action.
So yes as we are accreting earnings which we have been doing throughout this year significantly and we’ve made the capital ratios which we expect to meet and we’re entering the CCAR process with a reasonably high degree of confidence again I think it has six goals around -- we would expect to have further action on the capital side.
So it’s not like we asked for something didn’t get it last year we’re just proceeding on a plan that we’ve been on for several years.
No I certainly wasn’t suggesting that it’s more focus on the I guess your perception of the PPNR in the - progress that you made and it’s probably the one area where as I’ve -- one clear argue that the fed has been overly conservative at least certainly that we’ve heard from other market participants as well.
That’s a fair comment and I think I’ll let Ruth take you through how we think about it this year? So we would agree it’s obviously premature to comment on 2015 CCAR since we haven’t seen the royalty that we would agree.
We think the PPNR calculation was very counterintuitive last year and our view is that another year of evidence the benefit of the change in the business mix logically should help in last year it was the completion of the most strategic transformation of the acquisition of final piece of the wealth management business and you’ve seen we substantially increase the quality and consistency of earnings with the acquisition.
So our view is that this is an iterative process that improves all parties have improvements throughout the course of time and it was counter intuitive and we’re working hard to highlight all that we’ve done and the benefit of the earnings stream and so again that’s been the key focus you’ve identified we did think it was counterintuitive.
No thanks that commentary is extremely helpful and then just switching over this one quick question on preferreds.
You issued the additional billion as you noted in the quarter.
It appears that you’re at least fast approaching the 150 basis points of RWA target others have contemplated as has been mentioned by Basel I'm just wondering at this juncture do you feel as though you’re full on preferreds at the moment or should we anticipate additional issuance going forward? We have no plans for more preferred issuance this year.
Over the past few years we’ve been optimized on capital stack as you said but prospectively I'm not going to close the door prominently but at this point no plans for preferred issuance this year.
No I understood.
Okay thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Thanks so much for joining us for our third quarter conference call and we’ll speak to you again in 13 weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!