Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Anadarko's Year-End 2014 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today John Colglazier.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Michelle.
Good morning everyone.
I am glad you could join us today for Anadarko's year-end 2014 conference call.
And also before we get started I want to make sure you have on your calendars our conference calls scheduled for March 3rd where we will provide our 2015 guidance and key performance metrics.
I'd also like to remind you that today’s presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations on our website and attached to yesterday’s earnings release.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and following his remarks we will open it up to questions for Al and our executive team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
As I share with you Anadarko's 2014 highlights and a few thoughts on 2015 I hope you come away with two prevailing themes.
First we believe the portfolio we've designed coupled with our approach to capital allocation and portfolio management has shown the ability to deliver outstanding results and it will continue to serve our shareholders well in the future.
Second we're approaching 2015 with a great deal of caution as are many companies but Anadarko will focus on preserving value and flexibility rather than chasing growth in a lower return environment.
Our operational performance in 2014 was outstanding and Anadarko's employees delivered a tremendous year across the board.
On the divestiture adjusted basis we grew sales volumes by more than 11% year-over-year.
Even more impressively we increased our liquids volumes by 26%.
This significant growth was achieved while generating almost $150 million of free cash flow.
Anadarko replaced more than 160% of its reserves and continues to be one of the lowest cost operators in our industry while improving upon industry leading safety performance.
We did this while monetizing more than $2.5 billion of assets completing a $335 million secondary offering of WGP common units increasing our dividend by 50% and settling a frustrating Tronox Adversary Proceeding.
Our U.S.
onshore operations were nothing short of incredible led by the Wattenberg field and the Eagle Ford shale resulting in full year volumes growth of 16%.
This was more than 90 000 BOEs per day over our average sales volume for 2013 on divestiture adjusted basis.
Wattenberg’s growth has surpassed even our expectations.
You might recall during 2013 this asset had grown to more than 100 000 BOE per day and in 2014 volumes grew another 60 000 BOE per day or about 55%.
Wattenberg’s exceptional performance was facilitated by the growing up of our acreage positions outstanding reservoir performance improved efficiencies enhanced drilling and completions and importantly the investments we made in key infrastructure expansions.
Now we’ve taken that same model and are working to replicate this success in the emerging Wolfcamp Shale opportunity in West Texas.
We’re expanding our infrastructure including Western Gas’ acquisition up in the Delaware Basin assets and working to optimize our development programs.
Beyond the short cycle cash-on-cash opportunities in the U.S.
onshore we continue to advance our medium cycle mega projects having recently achieved first oil at Lucius our largest spar to-date in the Gulf of Mexico.
Lucius’ twin the Heidelberg’s spar also received a significant milestone as we came near completion on the topsides and continue to move towards first oil in 2016.
During last quarter’s conference call I discussed the important to receive an acceptable Decree Law for our Mozambique LNG development project.
As I suspect many of you know the government gazette the law prior to year-end to establish contractual and legal framework for this project’s development.
With the Decree Law behind us we secured an additional non-binding LNG offtake agreement now totaling more than 8 million tons per annum.
This sets the stage for the final development submission we anticipate delivering to the government later this year.
These are just a few of the highlights for which we are very proud that we accomplished last year and I encourage you to review the fourth quarter ops on our website for more updates and details.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the year with a very strong financial position with $7.4 billion of cash on hand and in January resolved the Tronox Advisory proceeding by remitting the $5.2 billion payment.
For the second consecutive year we organically added more than a 0.5 billion barrels of crude reserves.
We did this at a cost of $8.8 billion in 2014 resulting in a very competitive and likely industry leading finding and development cost.
During 2014 we successfully delivered great operating results with the largest capital program in the company’s history.
And as mentioned previously we did this while generating positive free cash flow.
This record operating performance again demonstrates the capabilities of our portfolio its people and the company’s culture.
It’s a powerful testament to the depth and quality of our assets to exceed our original expectations by almost 40 000 BOE per day the size of many mid-cap companies all while staying within the original capital guidance.
The commodity environment for 2015 and likely 2016 is a long way from the last few years.
Our track record for efficient capital allocation within a durable portfolio is exceptional.
Few companies have accomplished what APC did operationally the last five years.
All this while paying out almost $10 billion in cash related to instances that challenged us in many ways.
As we mentioned earlier we’re approaching 2015 with caution given the uncertainty surrounding commodity prices and service cost.
We will provide you details about our 2015 capital program and guidance for key performance metrics on our investor call on March 3rd as John mentioned earlier.
We have shown in the last five years we can be very good on offence and we will demonstrate the same tenacity as we transition to the opportunities the current market affords us.
We have the skills the financial capacity and the work ethics to create value in this difficult market.
When this market turns and commodity prices once again sync up at cost we look forward to playing the type of offense we did in the last five years and doing it well.
APC has tremendous option value and durability and we’ll continue to be active portfolio managers.
With that we’ll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Bob Brackett from Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Can you talk a bit about maybe not the details of what 2015 will look like but at least your approach to funding the program to high grading to allocating capital? Sure good morning Bob.
I think it would be fair to say that you can anticipate once we have reviewed with our Board received their concurrence that our capital plan for 2015 will be significantly lower than it was for 2014.
And I think you can expect it will probably be in line with the type of reductions you have seen from our peers.
I think with that coupled with the comments I made about not chasing growth and a low environment for commodities and economics and that we want to maintain flexibility doing this along with financial capability those are going to be watchwords.
I mean we don’t really see the need to grow in an environment where we don’t have well head economics purely for the simple purpose of having production growth as an objective.
Quick follow-up where do you see service cost deflation going and in a $4 gas world how would you think about allocating capital oil versus gas.
Okay I will start with this and I will see if I can get Chuck Meloy to also to give you a few thoughts from him.
If you think about the fact that onshore today unlike say ten years ago around 70% of our costs are now in completions whereas 10 years ago 70% of the costs were in actual drilling of the wells and 30% were in completions.
As a result as we’ve looked at this and comments I made in January at a conference would concur with and get ready to tell you that simply we don’t see this being a quick change to the service cost environment simply because we are going to honor our contracts and I think so will the industry.
We are in this with the service companies as partners.
As we move to sync up those costs however I think you can anticipate that maybe by the end of the year early into the next we could see significant reduction in service calls.
If we were fortunate enough to be able to find a [indiscernible] to save 20% reductions in service calls and you think about it being in a prior world at $90 per barrel and the economics they gave us at the well head $70 could be the new $90 or $90 could be the new $70 however you want to look at it.
So we think that $70 gives you the same economics that $90 with the 20% reduction in service costs.
I think that’s sort of the way our industry is going to have to look at things.
This is going to be a year of transition to a different service costs that gets synced up with a different commodity environment.
That’s just an overview and I am going to ask Chuck if he would to add on that a little bit and certainly in the deepwater where we have entirely different service environment the costs there are still coming down.
And I think activity levels there you will see moderating as well.
Chuck if you would? Yeah Bob this is Chuck Malloy.
Just a couple of points.
I think Al is right on the mark with regard to what service costs will do over the next time frame.
With regard to $4 gas price I am not certain that the actual commodity strip difference is a big driver here.
We have -- we are looking for the economics in our portfolio and we are going to pick out the best economic opportunities that we have that we got to drill.
And what I have seen here recently is you really see the differentials in the basins in cost the really hot basins have higher costs.
So we may be doing things in areas that aren’t quite as hot for a while and letting the costs come towards us.
There is a just a lot of opportunity and in our portfolio we can play the game pretty hard.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning Al; good morning everybody.
I guess as kind of related question I’ve got two actually but to Bob’s you got about a $20 contango on oil right now and given the dynamics of how these the wells come on in terms of how much values in the first couple of years how do you think about when you talk about in your prepared remarks preserving value over growth.
As obviously a lot of value could be preserved if you slow things down but I am just wondering how that factors into your thinking in terms of the capital plan.
And I have got a follow-up please.
Okay in one of these earnings calls they are going to get your last name right Doug.
I just know they will.
As it relates to your question I think as we think about our capital plan that we will be taking to our Board we view this sort of a starting point with an assumption around what the price environment what’s the service cost environment is going to be for the year but probably like with everyone including yourself with more concern and trepidation of exactly what will be the real world that 2015 turns out to look like.
As a result I continue to believe and think it’s likely that you are going to see our capital plan evolve through the year based upon the way in which costs sync up with revenue associated with the commodity price environment.
Consequently if we get into a much more extended period where we have low commodity prices and we do not have much movement on the service cost side I think you can anticipate we could very likely drop our capital plans that we come out with to a lower number.
We would achieve that through dropping rigs and not completing wells that we have drilled.
So we have a lot of flexibility built into what we are proposing to our Board here and as a result I see the initial capital plan as one that is just a starting point.
I appreciate the answer.
I guess my follow-up is hopefully a bit more positive and I guess it seems to me from the ops report the results from Shenandoah and Paon I guess these are higher profile wells you have.
I am just wondering if you are -- the guys are stationed now where you can talk about potential scale in both cases and potential development schedules for those potential assets but I realize it might be a little early but just order of magnitude and potential timing would be really helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah you bet it’s a little early I think you probably are correct in that comment and Bob and Jim Kleckner respectively can address some of your question more specifically.
But I think as it relates to how we take those development I am not concerned today about how we would necessarily do that from a technical standpoint how it fits into our capital allocation plans in future years.
I think of that as little bit more of a coming attraction once we understand better what the costs really are to take those two first lifting or first production.
So why don’t we handle the Shenandoah question first and then come back to the Paon question a little bit because I think they do somewhat go hand in hand and Jim needs to add something around what Bob has to say.
Hey Doug good morning.
At Shenandoah I’ll start there we are so excited about what we are seeing there.
We have got very good results for what we set out to do at the most recent appraisal well.
If you remember that appraisal well was several miles away and about 1 500 feet down dip of the number 2 I guess 2.3 miles to the east and 1 500 feet down there.
And we are looking to see if we can establish oil water contacts at that location.
So we knew it be very far down there and close to that.
We want to look at the lateral sand and the reservoir continuity; we want to look at quality of sands in that area because as we get down closer to oil water contact we have to get an idea about the drive mechanism and would we have an effective water drive then for recovery.
We had a model that we would see potential interval expansion as we move to off structure and then we want to get pressure data to show pressure continuity into the other number 2 well.
So overall we are looking to understand the oil in place better and the potential recovery mechanism.
But if you look at the results we really did all of that.
We have excellent lateral sand continuity.
The packages are all present they are very well co-relatable.
They have expanded so that model of expansion did work out.
We had up to about 1 470 feet of gross sand section versus a 1 000 feet that we had in the number 2 well.
The oil/water contacts were not encountered in the well based on the pressure data we were able to project those up.
So we got a much better handle on the oil in place and that has expanded.
We have more confidence on it.
So that was a very positive thing.
Reservoir quality was good.
So that gives us lot of confidence on the potential for the water drive.
So we got a lot more confidence on our geologic model and the eastern side of our structural interpretation.
We have gotten out pipeline over there.
And then the potential for the active water drive and a much higher confidence level on oil/water contacts for the field lie.
So as we move forward we are looking at an additional appraisal well this year.
That will be to the west of the number 2 well to test the western portion with the same sorts of objectives lateral sand continuity but this one will not be searching for the oil/water contact as much because we think we got a fairly good handle on that now.
So we are looking at sand continuity reservoir quality.
We are talking about potentially getting a core in it.
So we have a core in the reservoir section whereas we did get a core in the most recent well in the water section which will give us a lot of good information.
That well should spud in the second half of the year and then based on these results and the upcoming well the development teams already doing conceptual work.
And I'll let Jim talk a little bit about where they are on that but we still got some work to do out here.
Hi this is Jim and let me just follow on with what Bob said.
We've taken the full bypass corridor and we're working our reservoir simulation models right now to fully understand and characterize the sand quality as Bob said but we're also launching a basis of design or different types of development options.
We're also incorporating a joint industry project to look at the pressure regimes that we will be operating in and looking at 20 000 PSI systems for handling the pressures we anticipate countering in the reservoir.
So from an evaluation scoping standpoint the work is progressing very well and we'll wait to see what the results of the follow-on appraisal wells will indicate for our resource size.
And then you asked about Paon and I had said in I think our last conference call we'll drill Paon number three and potentially with success we’ll drill the number four well.
Well we drilled the number four so that indicates that three was successful.
We found little over 90 feet pay in the original number three well and then we went to the Southeast into the number four location testing another sand lode that we thought might be in communication with it.
We found pay over there also.
So we think we have enough resources here to move forward with a development planning the conceptual development planning.
The one thing that has changed slightly is there are more gas in the system than what we originally encountered or originally thought.
And actually the gas is going to be more valuable to us than the liquids.
There is a very good gas market in Cote d'Ivoire and we're actively in discussions with the government about how we would get the gas into the country and what sort of pricing we could expect because that would be really critical as we make our decisions.
We have a planned Paon pockets for this year along with the DST and the DST will be for pressure monitoring and some of the previously drilled wells to work on reservoir continuity and looking at getting some more rock data and that's really helped finalize the development planning.
The well bores that we have are all utilizable for production.
So we don't have a whole lot of new drilling that we'd have to do out here.
It’s more on the surface and the market that we have to work.
So positive results there and we have additional appraisal to do and some work with the government to finalize the pricing into the Cote d'Ivoire market for the gas.
We would also be stripping away… Thanks for the details.
So just a very quick follow-up.
Is this a PSC or pricing royalty in Cote d'Ivoire? Cote d'Ivoire is PSC.
Great stuff.
All right thanks very much.
Appreciate the answers.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning gentlemen.
Al my first one is for you if this ends up being more of a U shaped type of recovery in terms of the oil prices just wondering how this would govern your thinking about the mix of invested capital between your short cycle mega projects medium cycle and the longer term projects through exploration versus a V shaped type of recovery.
Well good morning Arun.
I think today we would concur with those that are in the camp that think we have a U shape.
We're not anticipating it being V shaped.
So consequently as you've heard in my prepared comments we see ourselves in a peer here trying to build value maintain flexibility and not grow in a low commodity price environment that has economics that we see as less attractive.
Consequently we will continue to add to more of the mid-cycle and to some extent longer cycle stuff with our exploration and create the option value that we've done so well I think over the last six or seven years and I don't see ourselves really deviating from a lot of the things we've done so well the last five.
I think what we will do is put out a little bit of the hold or a pause on some of the short cycle well where we frankly we as an industry just don't have the proper wellhead economics until service call sync up with the commodities.
When we see that then we're prepared to move forward and as we have in the past and I think what we will do over the next year or two years or whatever it turns out to be I think we will be aggressive like many companies that have the financial capability and flexibility that we do today by taking advantage of the opportunities that develop from the hardships that this lower price environment will likely create.
Great my follow-up Al is just on cost deflation.
You gave us a lot of great color on that.
I just wanted to see if you could just perhaps comment particularly in the U.S.
on today what your spot versus contracted exposure is perhaps on the completion side and how does that change over the next 12 months? Chuck and I’ll tackle that one with you.
I think we’re in a little bit of a transition simply because like many companies of our size a lot of the services that we contract for are under more of a contractual obligation than something that’s just spot.
We drive our costs down by being able to do things over a longer term horizon.
That’s the comment I made earlier about not being too far with our contracts.
We’re pretty short with our contractual obligations.
So we go through the course of this year onshore we’ll have the ability to completely reshuffle the deck as it relates to those contractors that we have been using and prospectively we would be using in the future.
And I’ll let Chuck give you a little color around exactly his thoughts on how he’s going to manage that.
Yeah we’re in the I guess there’s two elements to it.
First off is the drilling rigs.
We’re about the end of this year we’ll have very few rigs that are left on any -- that have any term left on them other than the eight newbuilds that we’re taking on this year.
So we’re in a really good spot to try to realize market rates on a well by well basis as they materialize.
So that’s a fairly short position that we’re on to drive the completions.
Most of our contracts now are on a well-to-well basis and we’ve lowered our completion crews from 16 to 11 already and the predominance of the 11 work for us on kind of pad by pad basis.
So we’re getting -- we are in a really good spot to take full advantage of whatever the price concessions that we can get.
And really I would just add this requires every company but certainly I would say certainly the larger companies and we want to work with our service providers.
We do have a partnership here that goes beyond the next quarter or the quarter after that but we will work hard to try to figure out ways to sync up to where if we have the types of service cost reductions that allow us to go back in and see capital at good rates of return we will.
We won’t chase growth just for growth’s sake.
Okay thanks a lot gentlemen.
Your next question comes from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning you’ve spoken earlier in the call with regards to the cost environment onshore and wanted to see if you could touch more on the LNG cost especially as this is a key here for contracting in Mozambique.
Are you seeing any deflationary pressures from the stronger dollar from lower steel prices that could materially change the cost and the breakeven prices for Mozambique or is this something that is more further down the road or unlikely to happen? Sure great question Brian and Jim in conjunction with Scott Moore I think probably can address your question.
As it relates to how we’re thinking about the feed portion the build in Mozambique and then as it relates to the HOAs ways that we’ve entered into and the contractual mix.
So Jim why don’t if you don’t mind you start it.
Yeah good morning Brian.
Just in regards to the question on steel and its impact on the project obviously the construction liquefaction of the pipelines and the subsurface construction of the wells would be large consumers of steel.
The feeds have been submitted and we are in the process of working through with the joint ventures that submitted those feeds pricing given the market status right now and we haven’t completed that.
But I’ll just say that it is ongoing and we would anticipate as we see commodity prices fall and steel prices fall we would see some discounting in pricing.
And also I would add that from the HOA point of view we do see continued strong interest from our premium agents and buyers who recognize the world class resource that we’re developing and the strategic nature.
And we have been using hybrids and S curves in our pricing structures that really do help us moderate impact of lower oil prices in the near end of the oil curve.
Thank you for the color and to follow up on that Al you mentioned earlier relating to the 20% service cost deflation at $70 could be the new $90.
Are you to that point with LNG based on what you just said that the equivalent of a $20 decrease in your breakeven price or is that more for the onshore? No that comment was related more to the onshore activities.
Obviously whether it’s LNG or its building spars that we might be contracting for in future those costs are different in terms of price discovery.
But as the odds become less full of backlogs I think we added those to drive costs down whether it is onshore or in the deepwater.
And certainly as it relates to the LNG development and the onshore part in particular we are in the final stages of naming our field contractor and working through the various tenders that will be associated with that.
We do anticipate given where we are and given the lack of activity that costs that would have been in the system a year ago probably are much -- pardon me are going to be much less as we go forward and firm up those tenders with the field contractor.
Thanks and lastly I know that you are not putting up the budget at the moment but can you just talk broadly as you think about a more cautious approach onshore for 2015 should we assume that means declining rig count in each of your major plays or there are some plays that you see as just strategically and structurally better better than others where it makes more sense to drill through this environment? I have used this term before and I will again use it here.
I will give you a trailer and let you see the movie on March 3rd.
I think that you can expect that there are going to be certain basins in the Wattenberg as we’ve said over and over again as our best area of returns.
It’s certainly an area that’s got a great yield associated with production mix.
But it also benefits from the royalty interest or minimal interest that we own there.
So it’s a unique asset for Anadarko and a unique asset within our industry.
So that area probably does feed on capital a little bit easier and better than others.
But as it relates to just the trailer comment I do mean when I say we just don’t see yet the commodity prices being synced up with the service costs that really provide us the types of rates of return and well head economics that I could think of growth as an important factor for 2015.
Generating and creating value and maintaining flexibility in what could be a very difficult year to two years for the industry is probably much more important to us.
Thank you very much.
You bet thank you.
Yes good morning to everyone.
If I could go back to some of the Shenandoah some of the Shenandoah comments I am not sure if I am interpreting this correct but when I look at your cartoon that you had previously in the cartoon that you guys put in your operations report subsequent to this No.
3 appraisal well it looks like perhaps maybe you were surprised by how far down dip that you intersected that section and I understand there is a lot of positive things you learned but it seems to me that that maybe the upper end of your reserve distribution would be curtailed by this result.
I am just kind of looking to see if I am right on that or get more color there.
Yeah Charles Bob again.
After we drilled the Yucatan No.
2 well we realized that there was a velocity a section that gave us a velocity problem in the Oligocene and upper Miocene which we then rolled into our planning for the No.
3 well.
And with that we actually deviated the well to the north and the west to try to get closer to where we would anticipate the oil water contact.
We also got some pressure down at the Yucatan that we could project across without a lot of confidence.
And so we did deviate to the northeast to get closer to that with the section was present [ph] which meant that we were about 300 feet lower than what we anticipated which is nothing at these depths.
So we actually felt like we came in pretty darn close to prognosis.
And then the sand expanded.
So at the lower levels we were farther down dip because of the sand expansion which we did anticipate as we went in.
So as to the upper end of the range you may be right that just the aerial extent based on not just this well but the information from Yucatan pulled us in a little bit on that side of the structure.
But it is not a very significant reduction in the upper end.
And we still think this is a very -- has a potential to be a very large field.
That’s helpful color Bob I appreciate that.
And then Al this could be either for you or perhaps for Chuck.
As we are looking at your CapEx CapEx progression in ‘15 and versus cash flow it would seem to me that you would be pretty hard pressed to not spend in excess of cash flow in the first half of ‘15 just because you mentioned earlier that you have contracts and you got to honor them but that there was a -- we maybe should look for balance cash flow versus CapEx in second half of ‘15 and I don't want to get in to the movie I recognize we're in the trailer but I wonder if you can tell me how you guys are thinking about that? Charles one of the most difficult things to do when you have a call where you going to be going in some detail in the week follows is being able to address constructively a question like yours.
I think you just have to appreciate the fact that everybody has got different price decks and that generate different assumptions around what our cash flows is going to be for the year.
And I think until we've had a chance to review that with our Board and get their concurrence on what that CapEx spend ought to be I am really not in a position this morning to answer your question.
I hope you'll appreciate that answer.
No I recognize and I appreciate your comments.
Thank you for the time.
Your next question comes from David Kistler from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Real quickly thinking about some of the comments you made in the Q3 call where you highlighted that deepwater is going to continue to be a core strategic focus on the exploration side.
You did about 25 wells give or take in ’14.
How do we think about that for ‘15 knowing that those are longer dated projects and capital today really maybe isn't relevant to the commodity price today other than service cost contractions? Can you give us any color on how that program might shift? David the best way I think Bob Daniels and I can answer your question if you think back to the market conditions in late 2008 and certainly through all of 2009 we were and continue to be during that time a very active explorer in the deepwater.
Maybe we were at the same pace that we were prior to the prices collapsing but we continue to maintain what we thought was the right approach for creating value and in particular option value around what we do at deepwater exploration.
We probably won't drill the same number of wells in 2015 that we did in ‘13 or ‘14 but we are going to drill deepwater exploration.
We continue to look at various things and one of the things we look at is where the 16 months contract forward trade is at any point in time and whether or not that gives us a price point to and give us encouragement around this creation of option value.
Bob’s is already active in to year with our activities in Colombia and so we anticipate drilling deepwater exploration this year as I mentioned on the last earnings call and despite the fact we're in a market where the near term price for oil is not encouraging of that we still see enough economics around where the 16 month is coupled with the fact that I am not sure anyone believes that by the time we get around to the end of this decade oil is going to be where it is today or if it is service calls are going to be significantly different as it relates to that price discovery.
So Bob you might if you want just give a little bit of foreshadowing on what you see in your exploration portfolio.
Yeah David one thing I would caution you on comparisons is that when we had the success in Mozambique that took an awful lot of appraisal work.
So when you look at the total deepwater wells we were drilling numerous appraisal wells in Mozambique for the last several years.
We finished that program in 2014 and -- very successfully by the way but so that appraisal focus probably will go down.
On the exploration side that we're going to have an active year.
We're drilling in the Gulf of Mexico presently on the Yeti prospect.
We also have just recently over the weekend in fact spud our first well in Colombia where we plan to drill two wells.
That's going to be a very exciting program to watch.
We do anticipate some West Africa exploration and a little bit more East Africa exploration.
We'll roll all that out at the conference or the presentation.
But the focus will be both on the areas that we have trying to find the new play that will be something very significant with some running room.
But we have a lot of flexibility in it too in that we have some that already have partners built into them many times with carries associated with that and we can look at what's the right level for us to go into 2015 and are there people who want to partner with us on some of our opportunities.
So we got flexibility there.
We've been very successful with that program over the years.
Great color.
Appreciate that.
Switching over a little bit to commentary that was within the release through the ops report with low NGL prices there was little bit of ethane rejection taking place can you talk about where that took place and per your comments it sounds like activity in the Wattenberg will be status quo.
Is there any concern if ethane rejection was taking place there that you might have an issue with pipeline restrictions or anything that might impact growth there? Yeah David it’s all economics right now.
We take it on a plant by plant basis.
What do we most economically manage doing the selling end is is it liquid or a gas and most of the fourth quarter we were in rejection essentially every order at least partially in every plant we had.
So we will continue that process we go through it evaluate it weekly and make elections.
Right now the economics will favor the selling of the gas at least in most cases.
And with regard to takeaway capacity and that type of thing this is -- it’s on the margin it’s not significant amount of gas and we are well positioned to evacuate whether it’s gas or liquid.
Okay that’s helpful to know that it doesn’t impact pipeline specs at all.
Thanks so much for the color guys.
You bet.
Thanks David.
Yes good morning Al.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Just looking at how you think about spending in your capital budget for this year and I know you have got your analyst meeting coming up but it sounds like you are not going to really cut back on spending on long lead time projects there on exploration.
And as we look at onshore North America then you are only operating one rig in the Marcellus.
Delaware Basin is really infrastructure constrained as you continue to delineate that.
The Wattenberg field I think you would say at today’s oil price of $50 a barrel depending on whether you are in the land grant acreage or outside it you are getting 30% to 50% rates of return and as we look across your portfolio in Q4 90% of the CapEx was those areas plus the Eagleford.
So one with those sort of returns today in the Wattenberg would you really pull capital from the Wattenberg field and then two the only other area of significant spend that’s contributing to growth is the Eagleford.
So at $50 oil what’s your rate of return there and with the combination of lower service cost and higher oil prices what is the hurdle rate or rate of return in the Eagleford where you would resume or continue the full program? Bob I know again you like others on the call can appreciate the fact that I very much would love to be able to address your questions specifically but I don’t have our capital plans approved by our Board yet.
So our ability as management team to address your questions specifically is fairly limited.
I will go back to a comment I made earlier I think you can anticipate we will have a significant reduction in CapEx year-over-year that will look like it’s generally in line with what our peers have announced so far.
The granularity around that we will look forward to giving you that on March 3rd and I will apologize if that sounds like I am avoiding your question I am just not really a position this morning to answer.
Okay I guess then just when you say economics are less than attractive what is an attractive hurdle rate when you look across your portfolio and set your budget what is it that you target as a rate of return to be able to spend capital I guess would be the question.
Well the hard thing to be able to answer that question is I don’t know what service cost we are going to do through the course of the year.
We may drill some wells and we may look to see what is the concessions we get from the completion services companies provide us in order to whether or not we want to spend the next $0.70 of the dollar that would go into a drilling complete.
And I think the types of things you will see from us will in fact give you an appreciation that we this year will need to be fairly flexible.
We don’t anticipate having a worse oil environment in the second half of year.
I think we are sort of inclined to believe that oil will continue to recover.
How much it recovers and how quickly it recovers I am not in a great position or a better position to answer that than anyone else.
But when costs sync up with the new commodity environment that we are in I think that is when we as industry and we as a company will be able to give you the types of color around how much growth we would anticipate having.
In the Wattenberg as I mentioned earlier we have mineral interest and so that mineral interest adds to the economics that we have there that’s unique to any asset we have elsewhere in our portfolio.
So just growing without attractive rates of return and without getting into specific rates of return that assume certain service cost with it.
I would say today the best answer I can give you is that our best asset in our portfolio to grow short term or short cycle investing is the Wattenberg.
Okay thanks.
Look forward to March 3rd.
Thanks Al.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
Most questions have been answered.
I have got some onshore ones.
In the Delaware sequentially your CapEx went up quite a bit even though the rig count was sort of the same.
So did you do more completions or was that infrastructure type expenditure? John most of what we've been doing is associated with infrastructure and completions.
We also did some acquisition work in the fourth quarter in the Southeastern portion of the field.
Okay.
With the Marcellus you had Chuck record output.
Are you going to stay at that level or is it because you got an ethane pump or what's going on there? Yeah John.
During the fourth quarter we flowed our wells pretty in-line with what the market would take.
We're down to one rig and we're only using it part time right now.
So I see our volumes plateauing particularly our operated volumes our non-op volumes we are more uncertain on right now.
But wells are performing incredibly well and most of them are flowing at flat rates without much decline yet.
So we'll just see where that goes through the course of the first half of the year or so.
Great thank you.
Thanks John.
Hi good morning.
Al a question for you on if you can talk to this on potential cash in-flows in 2015 be it drop-downs or your latest thoughts on in the royalty or sell-down in Shenandoah and perhaps other examples that you might be thinking about.
I made reference and I'll reiterate the fact that we have been as active and I will even say more active than any of our peers the last six or seven years with active portfolio management.
I mean we are not passive portfolio management we're very active.
What this market gives us in the way of opportunities to monetize some of the option value that we have in our portfolio remains to be seen.
Bob looks at along with lots of other people ways in which to do that on a continuous basis.
I am going to let him give you a little bit of color around some of that.
But I think you can anticipate that while we won’t preview with you what we're going to do until we've done it.
It's not been our practice and the history to talk about what we are going to do.
But rather explain what did after we did it.
That will be the case again this year.
All I can say you can expect that our track record of certainly the last six to seven years is one that we will like to lean on again and with that I'm going to turn it over to Bob.
Subhash you mentioned a couple of the things where we feel like we got option value.
I think it's fair to say that we do have some assets in the portfolio that we've identified that we would like to divest out if the price is right during 2015.
It's a matter of continuing to sell assets that are relatively attractive but may not attract capital within the portfolio in coming years.
In addition I think it gets well established that we have a very valuable owner ship position in the WGP equity.
I think it's 88% plus of that entity and we've talked in the past about our expectation of continuing to sell down that position.
I would expect we would do some of that in 2015 as well depending upon market conditions and our desire to enhance liquidity.
As far as the royalty potential for a royalty deal goes of course we continue to keep an eye on it and look at the value there.
It's healthy economics tremendously in the Wattenberg field.
It's adding value everyday and I think in the ops report we showed somewhere around $775 million of aggregate revenue associated with the royalty last year.
Last year we had a lot of option value but in this current environment with oil where it is it's not something that's on the short list that we are looking at in the near term but something that over the time I continue to believe could have some material value as the market showed with a couple of other transaction in a higher oil price environment.
So lots of optionality lots of places we could go for additional liquidity within the portfolio but given the strength of the balance sheet we don't have to act on any of those things and we'll choose to act when and if the time is right and there is an opportunity to enhance value for the shareholders.
Thanks Bob.
It just a follow-up I guess specific to Shenandoah.
There is some I guess rules of thumb rightly or wrongly attributed to you guys.
But one is you tend to sell down or get carried on your big development projects your mega projects and as Shenandoah gets there that looms as a budget item.
But then secondly I think when you -- then if you are down in that 25% 30% working interest range to not to sell down.
I could be completely flawed in my memory at this but how do you think about monetizing your mega project that you haven’t so far? I think your philosophy is accurate.
When we’ve had higher working interest it gives us the ability to sell relatively in the case of Lucius and Heidelberg relatively small subset of that working interest that get carried significantly enhance the economics significantly enhance our cash flow position relative to the assets shorten the timeline to payout.
And we’ve looked to those opportunities pretty aggressively.
When we have smaller working interest obviously we have to consider the materiality of the remaining position going forward and we look at it relative to the other options we have to finance the development of the asset.
Got it okay and a final one for me this is coming off an article that was here in February ET Magazine in Wattenberg and micro seismic that you’ve done curious what the latest facing arguments are for the Wattenberg? Well we -- this is Chuck we continue to test that and it is very dependent upon where you’re on in the field.
We’re going to continue to test it over time.
Right now we’re drilling in the order of 12 to 14 wells per section in the Niobrara and in order of half that at Codell and so it’s just kind of -- it’s very dependent upon the geographic area and the geology as well as price.
So we are going to adjust our thinking once we see service cost and commodity prices settle in we’ll make whatever adjustments necessary.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Kind of going back to this working interest thought again it looks like you’re carrying a higher non-working interest in to 2015 than is your usual practice.
With this commerciality rising what’s more important in 2015 attracting partners or moving the project forward at the pace that you desire? I think it really is prospect or asset specific.
I can’t give you a generic answer other than the fact that our history and our pattern of activity has always been to promote during the exploration phase so you reduce some of the risk associated with exploration.
And then when we make a decision to go to [indiscernible] we -- our practice again and pattern of activity has been to promote not again to be carried on the development cost.
So I can’t see us changing that recipe.
There could be such circumstances I guess where we might put off some of the risk allocation to one of these two particular areas where I just made reference to but I’ll let Bob answer the rest of that.
Yeah I don’t know if our working interest is that much higher than typical.
We have different working interest in different areas based on the cost.
The Gulf of Mexico is an expensive well cost and so we tend to take smaller working interest in those areas.
West Africa these wells are relatively inexpensive.
We can hold on to a higher working interest even though we do bring a partner in in the exploration base we can maintain a higher working interest which gives us more flexibility when it comes to the development phase and Paon is a great example where we still have 65% of that asset and we can make some decisions as to what we want to do as we move forward there.
But that depends on the environmental wind and with the individual well cost because it’s kind of how much exposure do we want the total exploration portfolio.
That was very helpful.
Staying offshore do you have any opportunity to reduce your offshore drilling day rates we cover that basin and we hear there are a number of operators have been approaching the contractors with this sorts of conversations? Well I’ll let Jim give you a little more granularity.
I want to reiterate a comment I made earlier and that is where we had contracts we’re not looking to doing anything other than to honor those contracts and we’re going to get a comp partner that the service company wants to have from that perspective.
Right and I would just echo what Al said is that our original contract right now have various expiration dates.
So we will be dropping two of those rigs this year in the first half as we end the terms of those rigs.
So we’ll be working with a remaining fleet of six and those are actively engaged in very very good exploration price and the development programs that we have ongoing.
So directly tied to those rigs we don’t see a lot of scope unless we chose to farm those rigs out or operate those rigs elsewhere on lower working interest properties but the program is pretty well set right now.
Regarding the services provided on the rig we do see some of the services the smithing [ph] the wire line the mud work and pit supplies to offset those rigs possibly seeing some reductions as those on long term contracts will probably be more representative how the market moves.
And could I add just quickly to that if I might.
The rigs that Jim made reference to that we will have remaining after these two roll off these are really high capability rigs and so consequently they will reduce a lot of the downtime and non-productive time that we would have with a lesser rig.
So while they really are in the contract we are quite happy with the fact that we do have these higher capability rigs under our contract as part of our fleet.
Okay great.
Thanks I appreciate it.
Hey good morning guys.
I just want to go back to the portfolio management issue just real quick.
I mean I wanted to sort of pull back a little bit from the specifics on Shenandoah and just ask if we are in a more of a U shaped oil price environment recovery environment like you guys said you are thinking about -- how does that impact and if we assume that the M&amp;A is going to be more for sellers does that impact how you guys think about the weighting of these mega projects in your portfolio? And obviously would presumably would affect your funding decisions but if you can’t sell your carriers for the same kind of price on a potential barrel basis how does that affect your thinking? The best way I can answer that is to-date so the types of things that we have been taking to the market to look to sell down we don’t see a deterioration in the market for that.
Some of that may be the fact that it’s -- we got a good track record of being an operator that brings projects into first production on time and on budget.
So therefore while we can’t control what the price environment is going to be at first lifting or first production we do know that our market knows that we are very very good at project management and very good at cost management.
So I can’t say yeah we have seen any lack of interest in the types of things that we have historically done.
When the time comes and we look at what we want to do with anything we want to sell down may be those markets will change but for the things that we have today and the things we are considering we still get a lot of inbound interest.
I think you have to look at the fact that the forward curve at least if you go back to the 16 months contract I made reference to earlier that’s what I think the market focus is on to in terms of what they are looking at.
And I think even if you look at where the 16 months trades today most people see a lot more upside to that than they do down.
Okay fair enough.
If I can just switch gears then onto the onshore program obviously a lot of people were talking about doing a lot of stuff to improve productivity and capital efficiency last year in various areas things like obviously the longer laterals upsized fracs more intense completions and so on.
Can you guys talk about -- presuming that we are of course in a more strained budget for next year whatever the number is can you talk about how much of that kind of work you would be doing both in terms of testing new concepts number one and then number two applying what you have learned this year in the portfolio.
I mean you guys can be trying to drill more expensive wells and to get the bigger productivity or you can kind of limit that application.
James it’s Bob here.
We are going to do everything we can to maximize the efficiency of our CapEx.
If that involves continuing to do some experimentation and emphasizing fracs or changing sand or increasing or decreasing injection rates whether it might be we are going to continue to work on our recipes to improve our efficiency.
We have done it both on the completion side and the drilling side and our view is we want to get our cost per foot down while maintaining the maximum EUR per foot.
It’s just the balance that we work on to get our economics sound.
Okay if I can just pursue that for one second I mean obviously we are thinking about trying to understand what service cost deflation is going to do to the budgets for everybody across the industry and if you think about expectations that we had six or eight or 10 months ago about particularly proppant costs being source of inflation price inflation risk.
If that is an area that is where deflation is less likely to happen I guess I am trying to figure out whether you guys would do less of upsize fracs because you have speaking of that specifically because you have less savings to repair versus rig rates and so on.
It's very much dependent upon the zone and how the upsizing has affected our EURs depending upon the play you're actually in.
And I think the thing you might just think about from our perspective and maybe this doesn’t ring with you but we grew about 90 000 barrels a day last year by continuing to work at capital efficiency with our investments.
And I think you can just rely on the fact that that's what we're going to continue to do.
We're going to continue to work it hard and continue to try to grab as much return as we possibly can of these dollars and fortunately we have some extraordinary land to work on.
So that's what we're going to continue to do and specifics of this is very much dependent upon the play and the outcomes.
It's hard to speculate on what those might be.
Sure.
That makes great sense.
Thanks guys.
And your final question for today will come from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
I just was quickly going to ask given what you said about portfolio management whether you would be -- given the turn of the cycle interested in acquisitions and what kind of acquisitions you might consider.
Thanks.
Yeah absolutely but I don't think we're unique in saying as a large company that's got financial capability and capacity that we'd be looking at acquisitions.
I think we all in our peer group would be looking at this as an environment where if assets come to the market in places where we consider ourselves currently active we're going to be looking to add in to those positions whether they're bolt-on or little bigger than bolt-on.
But I think going into a new play completely is probably way down the list of things that we see ourselves doing and maximizing our potential.
And so I think if you think about the acquisition market what's going to happen there I think we're more of an asset buyer in this market in and around things today where we're active and where we're putting capital towards.
And Bob I don't know anything else to that.
Only think I would add is it’s opportunity driven it's -- the longer this cycle continues the more opportunities are going to be the more capitulation we might see on the part of sellers and it's one of the reasons that Al’s comments focused on our desire to be opportunistic and flexible.
And obviously we've got a great portfolio the way it is.
So if see opportunities to enhance the inventory surrounding that portfolio or expand the ability for future growth once commodity prices recover I think we would be fairly aggressive in doing so.
Great.
It's past 10 so I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Thank you Paul.
Well thank you everybody for joining us and we look forward to you joining us for our conference call on March 3 as we provide the 2015 guidance and key metrics.
Thank you and have a great day and don't hesitate to call if you have any questions.
Bye-bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!