Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Anadarko's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sandra and I'm your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for training purposes.
And now I'd like to hand the call over to John Colglazier.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Thank you Sandra.
Good morning everyone and we're very glad you joined us today for Anadarko's first quarter 2015 conference call.
I'd like to remind you that today's presentation contains forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today so I encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to yesterday's earnings release.
In just a moment I'll turn over the call over to Al Walker for some brief opening remarks and we remind you that we have significantly more information and detail in our quarterly operations report available on our website.
And following Al's prepared remarks we'll open up it for questions with Al and our executive team.
Al? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John and good morning.
I'm extremely proud of the way in which our employees have demonstrated a competitive spirit in their energy and focus on enhancing value in these challenging times.
Our drilling teams continue to improve efficiencies across the board highlighted by the cycle time reductions in Wattenberg which improved about 17% over the fourth quarter of last year.
And in the Eagle Ford Shale we're drilling wells in less than seven days.
In both fields new horizontal well performance was outstanding and the benefits we're getting from lower service costs we're seeing significantly improved economics.
The asset teams are also doing a great job of realizing additional volumes by moderating our base production decline.
As a result we've invested less than expected in the quarter and we've delivered sales volumes that surpass the high end of our guidance.
All told the efficiency gains outstanding well performance cost savings and reduced downtime enabled us to increase our full year sales volume guidance by 5 million BOE and to reduce our initial capital spending expectations.
We've also made significant progress in our international and deepwater activities during the quarter.
We achieved first oil at Lucius and rates continue to ramp towards capacity.
Also in the Gulf Heidelberg is moving forward on schedule.
The spar is ready to sail to location in the coming weeks and two rigs are currently drilling developmental wells.
Development activity remains on schedule offshore Ghana at the TEN complex which is more than 55% complete.
Additionally we are very excited about the recently announced Yeti oil discovery in the Gulf of Mexico and are planning appraisal activities.
Shifting to the financials we ended the quarter having approximately $2.3 billion of cash on hand which should be further bolstered by proceeds from our $700 million EOR monetization that closed subsequent to quarter-end.
Our cash position and access to liquidity as well as ongoing portfolio management activities have us well-positioned in the current environment as we recognized recently with two upgrades on our credit ratings.
We carried a significant amount of momentum into the first quarter maximizing our operating results and continuing to safely and creatively find ways to reduce costs.
I believe we're making prudent decisions in the current environment and we're taking the actions that are needed in order to put us on the right path to preserve and enhance value today while ensuring that we're ready to accelerate activity when the market returns for the better.
With that we'll open it up for questions.
Thank you.
Okay we have a first question for you and this one's from Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dave.
Great work on the Eagle Ford and Wattenberg and maybe kind of diving into that a little bit.
The efficiency gains looked larger than they have been in the past even on year-over-year comparisons.
Is that really a result more of high-grading drilling crews and completion crews et cetera or is that something else that's taking place under the hood? Any kind of color you could give us on that would be great.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah Dave.
This is Chuck it's a great question.
We're really excited about those efficiency gains so that gives us a lot of opportunity to use our capital more efficiently as you would know.
There's a lot of things that are working in our favor right now.
You've mentioned one of them where there's some high-grading of crews and rigs and those type of things as well as just the continuation of a process of improvement where we see the best performance out of each well and we make sure we use those parameters in our drilling process going forward.
And it's just continuous improvement and it's – we work on that every day and the guys and gals in the field have just done a great job getting her done.
Okay appreciate that.
If we think about that a little bit more how should I think about that in terms of maybe secular improvement versus cyclical improvement that's taking place as a result of lower service cost and as you highlight high grading of the crews? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well there's a good chance that – as we've done for years now is we'll continue to improve these things.
We're testing some additional processes that make our drilling faster and more efficient in Wattenberg as well the Eagle Ford.
So I would think that you'll continue to see these.
The rate of change is always dependent upon our creativity and execution and we're going to work really hard on those to make sure that we can do the best job we possibly can.
So I foresee it continuing.
I've always thought we're pushing toward the later innings but these guys have continued to prove me wrong.
So I'm excited about how things are going.
And I know we have some really good opportunities that are in the queue that we're going to execute on and see how they work out.
And lastly on the thought of that same continuous improvement and increasing operating efficiencies and returns service companies have highlighted people exploring refracs in place where you've been drilling for a while like the Wattenberg and Eagle Ford.
Can you talk a little bit about how you guys are looking at refracs at this juncture? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah we've been looking at it.
We have the opportunity of course with the well count that we have to look for those opportunities.
And frankly we're being very cautious about expanding our production profile in this market and looking for the best economic alternatives.
And right now we see that as a good forward option in our portfolio which is just going back in there – much like we did in the vertical wells in Wattenberg we refracked those.
We see that as an opportunity.
We'd like to see the technology improve and get enhanced some and make it more predictable but we're going to hold that as a long option.
Great.
Appreciate the color.
Great work and good start to the year.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Staying onshore my first question positive production and base decline improvements and reducing line pressures in the Wattenberg on the upstream and midstream.
Is that part of – is that one-off or a part of a broader plan focusing on base production that might yield more results in 2015? Any color there? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well Evan I think it – it's not a one-off.
It's a lot of great work with a bunch of folks that are really working hard to make sure we get everything we can out of our wells and that type of thing.
As we've slowed down the drilling program we've had less timed (8:50) outs for instance which has given us an opportunity to improve our run times on our base wells.
Once you get these things up and running you're hitting the maximum production and when you're in the transients you don't get the maximum production and that's how we've managed to get some of this – compressor enhancements.
We've also – it has given us a chance to kind of get ahead of the drilling program and get plenty of infrastructure in place and that's particularly true – it's particularly true in Wattenberg and the Eagle Ford and to a lesser extent West Texas.
So all those things come together and it's a thousand really good decisions by our field guys and they have just done a bang-up job finding all the value out there and that's what we've asked them to do.
Shifting gears to offshore several potential projects approaching FID in Mozambique ultimately Shenandoah Côte d'Ivoire you mentioned in your ops report.
How do you think about moving into FID in these projects in the current environment? And are you prepared to take them assuming they're matured into FID at current interest levels versus your prior practice in monetizing and getting a carry which you can see the benefits in this quarter? International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> This is Jim and it's another good question.
We've got several projects that are in various phases of appraisal or in the phases of development.
Let me just pick each one and talk about that individually.
So Mozambique we're very very pleased with the progress that we've been making on all aspects of the development.
Our reserve certifications have advanced through the appraisal drilling as we've expected.
We've been successful in placing over 8 million tons in non-binding heads of agreement for LNGs off-take and sales.
We've gotten tremendous uptake in the lending markets for project financing and we're approaching our 60% targets for gearing.
So all the things that are moving forward on Mozambique are towards advancement to FID.
We're still working with the government which is in transition but progressing very well as far as the pace of agreements that we need to finalize our plan of development and submit that later this year.
If those go well which we anticipate they will we'd be looking at FID decision later this year into next year.
So in the Gulf of Mexico you referenced a couple of exploration appraisal projects that we've got.
Let me turn it over to Bob Daniels regarding the Yeti exploration well that will begin appraisal and some discussion about the Paon well in West Africa.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Sure this is Bob.
In Shenandoah you mentioned we're trying to get that – all the information that we need to make that decision and that's going to mean another appraisal well's going to spud here in the second quarter.
It's typically a 120-day well.
We're moving off to the Northwest of the 1 000 foot of pay that we found in Shenandoah number two.
So we're looking forward to getting that information looking for reservoir continuity fluid just really confirm the overall oil in place volumes that we have there so that we can then really start rolling that into development planning.
You'd mentioned Yeti where we had a discovery we're going to be appraising that later this year.
And looking forward to that we've already drilled a downdip sidetrack to it.
And then over in Côte d'Ivoire we have the Paon discovery we drilled a couple of wells last year both successful.
We're going to come back this year and drill another well and put pressure gauges in two existing wells and do a extended drill-stem test to look for reservoir continuity deliverability those types of things that will really help start defining what that project looks like and really help advance towards that FID decision.
So we got a lot of work and the whole focus that we have on these projects is how do we get them there as quick as possible while making good investment decisions along the way.
Great.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Seems like you have a lot of flexibility to raise or lower your completion and drilling activity levels that can drive a wide outcome of where production could end up being relative to the sequential declines coming in future quarters implied by your capital reductions and guidance.
Can you talk to what milestones that you are looking for from an oil price or further cost reduction perspective? Do you either increase completions or drilling activity and the impact that you would see on 2016 versus your long-term production objectives? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
This is Al.
Let me see if I can attack your question with some good answers.
First I'm sure you have more appreciation than most that these plays are not price-specific in a generic way.
Everything's got its own characteristics and own reservoir uniqueness.
So there's not really a price point by which we would say oh we're now back into a growth mode.
I think what we would say is that we need to see higher oil prices than we have today.
But most importantly they need to be higher and they need to look – appear to us to be sustained.
I think we still have some concerns that as we achieve higher prices we could see activity increase and prices unfortunately could suffer as a result of higher production than people are anticipating.
So we're going to be a little careful in terms of adding to that production number.
We – if we need to we'll continue to drill and add to inventory until we're convinced that we're actually going to get good rates of return at the wellhead with that capital on the margin.
So that's why we lowered our capital in part; we certainly have a lot of efficiencies that we achieved in the first quarter.
But we also are not prepared and I don't feel like it's likely in the latter half of this year that we'll increase capital unless the markets for commodities do something today that we don't anticipate.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then you've spoken in the past about the need and likelihood of industry consolidation.
As a company that's (15:20) very active in portfolio management with the recovery that we've had in oil prices and valuations wondered if you see attractive opportunities to add materially to your portfolio? And then on the flip side how are you thinking about the synergies or comparative advantages that you see to combine either individual assets or beyond with larger companies like the majors? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly in January at your conference I think the outlook was pretty dire for what commodity prices and oil in particular could look like for the balance of the year.
Prices are a little higher than I would've anticipated in January.
We have an awful lot of capital sitting on the sidelines waiting to go into our industry.
Whether it's private equity the public capital markets or other forms of capital that – sound like the mushroom is starting to get over $100 billion waiting to go into our industry broadly defined.
So it may be a situation where we've got a lot of capital chasing few early opportunities.
So I'd say early on where we have opportunities to add to assets where we're active in particular the Wattenberg the Delaware basin or in the Eagle Ford.
We would like to add to that where we think it makes good sense.
But I also would caution that comment quickly to say it's got to be a deal that really makes a lot of sense to us because otherwise we're pretty happy with the inventory we've got and opportunities have to look attractive on the margin relative to the way in which we would feed capital into our current portfolio.
From a broader M&amp;A perspective I'm not sure there's a lot of takeaways from the Shell-BG deal that would be a read-through for the rest of us.
I think that really is a strategic call on Shell's part for wanting to be more in the LNG business and I'm sure that will over time with the hindsight that a couple of years from now will provide it was probably a good move for them to increase something they're particularly good at.
I'm not sure that's the beginning of a lot of additional consolidation in our industry.
But in January I thought we would be in this trough for a lot longer.
And it looks like we're coming out of it a little sooner from a price standpoint although I'm still pessimistic and I think we are as a management team that we're going to have real robust prices for oil this year and so you might start to see it later this year into next some of the development in M&amp;A that you're making reference to that'd be my guess.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thanks Brian.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Doug Leggate and he's from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I wonder if I could try a couple also and may I say Chuck it's good to hear you on the call and congratulations.
We'll miss you.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Thank you Doug.
Maybe I could kick off with you then to make the most of you still being here.
So the comment in the ops report about 70% improvement in the initial rates out of the Eagle Ford was that just a kind of this-quarter or is that something you're seeing as repeatable? And if so is it translating through to the – I guess is it holding up through the type curve I guess? And I've got a couple of follow-ups please.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah Doug.
It's actually – I think this is something that's fairly sustainable.
What we've done is in the past a considerable amount of experimentation with different completion designs and looking over the fence seeing everybody else was doing it and try to make sure we ride on the efficient frontier with our completion cost our spacing and how the wells are performing.
And I'm not saying we cracked the code or anything but I think we have made a substantial move forward with that experimentation.
And we've added some sand to our completions that I think have helped.
And we learned to pump them a little different and optimize the use of the energy that we have from the frac job.
So all that I think is just to help us to make a step-up in our completion value and the first indication of that of course is rate but the long haul is how the wells perform in their decline phase and early on these look really really strong.
So we're excited about them.
We're going to use that in all our basins where it applies.
And so along with the industry I think we're all taking a step forward with regard to these completion designs and getting the most out of what we put in the ground.
Okay.
I appreciate the full answer.
Maybe just a touch forward on Chuck.
What's happening to the cost of those wells with the change in design? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well there's several things that are going on.
As you're aware that service costs in general have come down substantially.
We've added some product in the mix but then in addition to those we've seen some fairly significant gains in the process which has allowed us to do it quicker and cheaper.
And for instance out in the Wattenberg field we reduced our cost down to $3.4 million and then in the Eagle Ford they've come down as well from $5.1 million to $4.4 million.
So those are all big gains for us but it's a combination – it's the net effect of lower service cost better processes and then you add back in some of the additional energy and sand that we put in the well.
I appreciate that.
My follow-up is probably either for Al or Bob but the balance sheet at the end of the quarter now you put Tronox out of the way I guess is obviously higher than it's been in terms of metrics for quite some time but I think you described 2015 as a big year for asset monetization.
So I wonder if you could walk us through how you see some of the major moving parts and as best as you can given the obvious limitations if you could offer some commentary as to whether you are exploring or testing the market on your Mozambique position and whether in fact there is (21:31) I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Doug Bob and I will try to tackle your question.
Let me address something that seems to float around from time to time and as we all know rumors are simply – oftentimes just that.
As it relates to Mozambique we're not in discussions with anybody.
We've never hired a banker to run a process and our focus is totally and completely on getting this plan of development submitted to the government later this summer early fall.
We have several things contractually we're working on to be able to get that put in place with the government.
And as Jim made reference earlier we're quite pleased with the way this new administration has been working with us.
We've made significant progress to date and still have a few things to get done prior to getting that plan of development submitted.
Our intent and our expectation is we will be getting other things announced here fairly soon related to the onshore development of the LNG park and we have every expectation that later in this decade to have our first lifting for what we believe has got to be one of the largest gas discoveries in the world in the last three years and it will significantly change not only the landscape for how this country will be able to be a part of the world in the future but it will also change to some extent the way in which LNG and the markets associated will develop.
Mozambique has the ability to send LNG to both the Pacific and the Atlantic basin so it's geographically quite advantaged.
And as you know depending upon how we kit out these wells they're going to be 200 million cubic feet of gas to 300 million cubic feet of gas a day producers so we have a fairly significant cost advantage over lots of other sources of LNG as this becomes very significant particularly during the 2020 period or that decade.
So I hope that helps create a little bit of fact relative to a lot of fiction.
And you're right we do have some things that we're looking at doing with portfolio management and the balance sheet.
Bob can address those here in just a second.
But any concerns or speculation or views that we're trying to monetize this particular asset are just not there.
We're not in discussions and we have not hired a banker to run a process and again there's a lot of speculation about that but our job today is totally focused on getting this project advanced.
Doug it's Bob.
Beyond that we do have several assets in the portfolio that we would look to monetize this year.
I think it's clear that certain of those assets just don't compete for capital relative to the other assets in the portfolio that have been driving performance and are going to get the bulk of the capital moving forward.
Al mentioned how much capital is chasing deals in the market today.
That's created what I believe is clearly a sellers' market currently.
If that persists through the year I think we should be successful in our efforts on those individual assets.
That's obviously going to help the balance sheet metric you referred to earlier.
That metric's higher this quarter not just because we took the Tronox – the cash off the balance sheet to make the Tronox payment – but the write-down primarily in Greater Natural Buttes obviously changes that metric fairly substantially as well.
That said we're comfortable with the overall level of debt.
If you look to us on a debt-to-EBITDA basis I think obviously EBITDA is down a little bit this year but if you look over a trailing 12 months' basis or on prospective basis we feel comfortable that the leverage level is easily manageable and we always have the optionality to go beyond just the traditional E&amp;P asset sales and continue to monetize portions of our WGP holding.
So lots of flexibility around how to manage the balance sheet no significant cash cost to that debt burden from an interest standpoint.
And I think frankly the way we're doing it now with using the balance sheet and having the optionality around selling assets and monetizing WGP is far more efficient for our shareholders than for instance issuing equity to fund deficit spending or something which as we made clear last quarter isn't on the radar screen for us today.
That was – I appreciate the very full answer.
Thanks very much indeed.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one comes from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
I was going to ask about the reports in the press about the Mozambique process but I think you pretty comprehensively answered that one.
Could I just ask you...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Paul I'm really happy to – Paul I'm very happy to hear you say that.
Yeah.
I think you addressed it.
One outstanding one for me would simply be how you're viewing the future strip in your hedging program.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll answer that in part and let Scott Moore who handles not only our marketing but our positions that we take with derivatives.
I think you've heard us say many many times I'll just repeat it again we think of hedging as just balance sheet insurance.
And we try every year to think at the right times to maybe have as much as half of our commodity exposure hedged just for that reason.
As it relates to the current curves and what's out there obviously in the contango market it's a little harder to say oh we want to hedge.
But with that let me turn it over to Scott let him talk a little bit about what we think is out there in the market and how that translates into derivative activity.
Sure.
Thanks Al.
We do actively monitor the foreign markets and look at stabilizing our cash flow for balance sheet protection as Al said.
With the foreign market for natural gas being still relatively weak due to the really tremendous production growth in the fourth quarter carrying over into the first we would like to see that market tighten up and see that will put some modest improvement in the forward pricing which might give us more opportunities later versus the current valuations.
And we're pleased to see a little strength in the oil markets.
Still I would say a bit cautious in terms of capital discipline in the industry and selling into any rallies.
So we continue to look at this against our balance sheet and cost structure and if we see things that are attractive into next year we would carry forward with that.
Thanks – sorry.
The only thing I'd add is to keep in mind how we view hedging from a tactical standpoint in that we're generally looking to protect longer cycle spend with longer lead times for instance in our exploration portfolio or our megaprojects around the world.
And we feel comfortable those are funded going forward.
We feel comfortable with our current outlook for cash flow.
And as we mentioned previously our balance sheet and our assets hold capabilities to fund those things.
So with that flexibility locking in hedges at marginally better economics doesn't really materially change the economic profile for us.
If we saw the opportunity to lock in some material cash flows and materially better economics then maybe that would make more sense for us going forward.
Great.
That to me is very clear.
Thank you.
Paul thanks.
Did you have another question? No.
Once again my follow-up you actually kind of answered it with your follow-up so thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and apologies for pronunciation.
This one's from Subash Chandra and he's from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
That was very well done.
Thanks.
A couple of asset questions and one financial one.
From I think Bob's review of the offshore projects is it safe to say that Shenandoah and Paon are in the final stages of delineation? I supposed some of that is going to depend on these wells but it sounds like a DST or something we're closer to the end.
Second is for the onshore shale assets how you feel about lateral targeting and optimizing that; if you feel that that work is well-developed or in its infancy relatively? And then finally as I look at the E&amp;P sector there's a lot of focus on cash flow neutrality.
I wonder though that – in what scenario you might think either Anadarko or the sector might actually have to de-lever over time? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Subash what I would suggest is Bob will handle your first question Chuck will take your second and I'll tackle the third.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> All right.
Subash on the appraisal work yeah this is going to be the fourth well in Shenandoah and when we go into these appraisal programs we start working with the development teams.
They put in a group to do some pre-development work and to help define what data we need.
And so where would be the best place to locate these wells it's not just simply to focus on oil in place or something like that.
So there's an awful lot of work that's gone into defining what data we still need to get to that FID decision and the Shenandoah 4 is focused on really moving us – and advancing us in that direction.
I think we're planning on getting a core there in the oil column.
We're going to be up-dip to the 1 000 feet of pay that we had and so that will really help with some of the modeling going forward.
And it's very similar in Paon we're drilling the number 5 well this year so we've got significant amount of lateral appraisal and really we're looking at deliverability and connectivity and that gives you a lot more confidence than in what your actual development plan should be and how economic the field could be.
And so we do think that with both of these wells we're going to have a real step-up in our knowledge.
And with the integration of the development teams doing the pre-development work we're going to be in a very good position to make the call as to whether we want to advance towards the FID do an additional appraisal well whatever it may be based on the results of these wells.
But we're moving them forward very aggressively.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Subash this is Chuck on the – with regard to the targeting it's an excellent question.
We put it in the mix of all the things we're trying to optimize.
And what we've seen with the targeting is certain strata have faster rate of penetrations lower frac initiation pressures greater load recovery and IPTs.
So we're trying to optimize all of that to get the best economics out of these wells.
So we're doing a considerable amount of work on that and deciding how to stack the laterals if we do target particular intervals.
So there's a lot in this to try to push your way out on that efficient frontier and targeting is just one element of it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Subash on your question of delevering I'm assuming that you're talking about companies moderating to eliminating their deficit free cash flow spending.
I think what you're seeing as an the industry we're still in a fairly negative free cash flow environment for most companies.
That's one of the reasons I think you should take from the comments from this morning.
We're fairly cautious because we don't quite yet see service cost synced up to the environment that we're in from a hydrocarbon price perspective.
Until we start to see more of that synchronization we're going to be pretty cautious.
I think most of our industry will be fairly cautious.
There probably will be some that made – decide to take a bet and thinks that prices are going to run up and they're going to get ahead of it with their operations.
We won't be one of those.
As it relates to just being able to fund activities I think Bob Gwin made a good comment a few minutes ago that I just want to go back and reemphasize and I think most of you guys know this quite well.
With WGP we have additional liquidity beyond the cash as well as the lines of credit we have if we want to seek over time to reduce that position and I think we've been pretty clear.
Our intent's not to own as much of WGP as we do today and we see WGP giving us the ability to go into the market from time to time and use the cash that we see from that to put back into our operations and in particular things that we've seen that are good investments for us where the environment creates a good rate of return.
I think over time it's hard to argue about the fact that we've been pretty aggressive at managing our portfolio and monetizing things and the varied (34:38) rate of return since it's the way in which we deploy capital.
So as we come out of WGP we'll continue to think about that and how we're going to put that capital to work.
But from a leverage perspective I think the industry probably until we see service calls sync up with an environment where people can grow and grow with either a neutral free cash flow or a positive free cash flow we all ought to be pretty cautious as to where we are in general.
Hope that answers that question.
No it certainly does all three of them.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up.
Just curious on the Monument prospect if that is important to sizing up Shenandoah or is that a distinct prospect? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think we know enough about Shenandoah from a development standpoint at this juncture.
We're still in the appraisal process of understanding what we've got so we don't even have a good assessment today of what we think would be the cost to take Shenandoah to development.
I think until we look at that and understand it better any commentary from us about what we were going to do with Shenandoah would be premature.
Understood.
Thank you Al.
Okay.
We have another question for you and this one's from David Tameron from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Dave.
Al just on the service – if I think about your numbers on the quarter and some of the capital efficiency you're talking about.
Is there any way you can break down how much of that is service-cost related what are you seeing as far as your own operational efficiencies? Is there any way to split that and what have you seen thus far? I guess what's your numbers first far as service cost reductions if I look at 1Q? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah David.
This is Chuck.
I don't think I'd go into the exact figures and stuff.
I think the thing you can look at to give you an idea of what that split is is if you look at the drilling times in Wattenberg in the Eagle Ford that gives you a good idea what's process-oriented.
And then associated with efficiency process and efficiency and the rest of it is service cost reductions.
So the combination has given us a really nice boost in this lower commodity prices to still provide some reasonable economics in our better plays and we hope to continue to work on our processes to improve them.
The reason – I don't think a solid number is good right now is because it's moving on us.
We continue to see additional process improvements and we continue to see some improvement in our service cost.
So both are working in our favor right now and both are improving the economics even in this poor commodity market.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Dave can I just add to that real quick? No go ahead.
Go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think there'll be a day when it'll be clearer in terms of where the costs and efficiencies are particularly coming from.
But we spent a little bit of time on the call this morning talking about some of things that we're doing differently as a company in the field that are improving our efficiencies around how long it takes us to drill a well or the types of completions that we're employing.
And then we also work collectively and collaboratively with our service providers where we can to reduce cost.
So it really is at this juncture still a work in progress.
Okay.
And then if I think about bigger picture – if and when I guess service costs come back in line with what you're expecting Scott alluded to the capital discipline and obviously there's some smaller and mid-cap players that probably have marginal acreage.
But if let's say oil goes back to $65 tomorrow second half of the year do you think that the service costs – or the service companies are in position to ramp and meet the industry activity level just given how deep they'd cut if everybody decides fourth quarter hey let's start ramping for 2016? Is there going to be a lag period and do you risk the potential for service cost inflation headed into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know for those companies that might choose to be more active the second half of the year because they believe prices are going to be higher than they are today and believe they could continue to achieve service costs reduction so that they get a good rate of return I'm assuming they're thinking about how they run their business in a way where rate of return means a lot to them.
The service companies themselves have not really to-date shown us inability to deliver services not only in a timely manner but in a very quality manner.
In fact we're seeing tremendous support from the service sector.
I'm not currently concerned about it but our activity level as an industry is substantially less as you well know than it was even six months ago and substantially less or so – than a year ago.
The service industry I think like the upstream business has the ability where the economics support it to do the right thing and provide the right service at the right cost.
I think from our perspective we just need to continue to monitor that synchronization of service costs and hydrocarbon prices in a way where we think on a sustained basis we can get a good rate of return.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Nice quarter.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from James Sullivan from Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Just wanted to go back to Côte d'Ivoire for one second.
There have been a couple questions on it but I just wanted to ask so you guys post the DST are there other hurdles to a go-forward decision for FID besides the underground stuff? Is there – how's the work the situation with the government or are there any other limiting factors that would – that you guys have to get over to get to sanctioning the project? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I think at this point it's really technical and commercial internally.
Our relationship with the government of Côte d'Ivoire has been excellent.
The government's been very responsive.
In fact we went in and asked for a two-year extension to give us more time to get the appraisal work done so that we could put – submit a very good plan of development should we end up at that outcome.
And they were amenable to that.
They really would like to see another development.
They have internal needs for the cash and also for any hydrocarbons that may come into shore.
They're very very supportive of everything we've been trying to accomplish out there.
They have an existing oil and gas industry there with production and a ministry and oil company in Petroci that understands the needs of the operators and is very flexible about helping the operators be successful and therefore Côte d'Ivoire be successful.
So from the onshore side we're in a very good situation.
Okay.
Great.
That's really helpful.
Just to switch then over into the onshore arena.
You guys had a couple of announcements about Permian midstream pieces I think pipeline in the gas processing.
Can you guys just comment on what you think remains necessary on the systems and infrastructure and midstream side before the Permian is ready to kick into high gear? And I would – obviously you could take the question as commodity-agnostic.
I know we're looking at the likelihood of some volatility and you guys have really emphasized that you want to be cautious looking ahead.
But just on the system side taking no account of the oil price how far are you along there on the capacity side to being ready to rig it up there? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah Jim good question.
We're very excited about our Permian basin assets.
The Wolfcamp in particular has just shown tremendous upside for us.
So much like we did in Wattenberg we made some strategic moves to capture what we viewed as critical infrastructure in the Permian Basin the Delaware portion of the Permian Basin.
And they included the Nuevo plan as I think you're alluding to as well as the – what we call the DBJV which is a – it's a pipeline asset so we put together a really nice grid.
If you go into our operating report you can see that grid.
And what that grid does is allow us to develop our substantial acreage position out there very efficiently and effectively without long runs on incremental pipes.
The combination of those two pieces of infrastructure along with our position in the Mi Vida plant that's starting up here now has given us a very nice very efficient quick-response type of position within the basin.
And so we really are waiting on commodity prices.
At the end of the day we're in a really good position with infrastructure.
It still has a lot of work to do to upgrade it to continue the expansion that would keep up with the drilling program.
But it's given us a great footprint.
And if you look back at the Wattenberg story you'll see a very similar move and very effective move for us.
So I think we're in a good spot.
We have a lot of opportunity for upside to capture the full value chain out there and that's what we set out to do and I'm very proud of what we've accomplished.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Can I – this is Al – let me add to the fact that I think Chuck has done an incredible job of synchronizing our midstream and upstream business.
Our ability to add value over things that we control in the midstream space is incredible.
You look at what we did in Wattenberg and boy it's just a blueprint for how you do it right.
That was under the direction of Chuck and a lot of good people that work with him every day but at the same time I think few companies understand the need as well as have the ability to execute the way in which they combine their midstream and their upstream and understanding you need to control both.
And I think that's one of the reasons you see such good success from our standpoint from the Wattenberg field versus other operators in the field.
And we hope to do that again in the Delaware and certainly feel like we've done a pretty good job of that as well in the Eagle Ford with the way in which we've handled our midstream there as well.
Okay guys.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one comes from – apologies for pronunciation – David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys and thanks.
As I look back at first quarter you guys are much closer to cash flow and CapEx balance than many of your peers and Al you've been pretty clear on your outlook and your outspend for the rest of the year.
As you think about positioning into year-end can you talk about how you build a backlog of drilled uncompleted wells in Wattenberg and Eagle Ford how that brings you closer to cash flow balance but maybe more importantly how it could impact your outlook for activity levels and growth in a commodity price recovery? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well you can expect given the way in which we're allocating capital this year David you're going to see dry gas continue to decline sequentially each quarter.
We anticipate the exit rate for this year for oil to be relatively flat year-over-year.
So if you think about that from a rate standpoint and you think about what we have in inventory when we see prices really give us the right rate of return at the wellhead we're prepared to go back into a mode we've been in historically.
I think we are taking a very cautious view and trying to do what we believe is the right thing in an environment where creating and adding value is more important than growth.
And I'm not worried that when the day comes and we want to have growth that we can hit that accelerator again.
But I'm pretty proud of the fact that when we look at our exit rates for oil production we're going to be pretty flat year-over-year and the decline's largely going to come from just dry gas which as you well know it really doesn't have a lot of economics today and hopefully natural gas prices in the U.S.
will improve through the balance of the decade as some of this goes out of our country through LNG and that commercial industrial demand picks up.
But I think that's kind of where we are today.
And I'm not worried about getting back into a growth mode when we see higher prices that look sustainable and that will give us a good rate of return over the production profile of the field at the asset.
And I guess that is the point of the drilled uncompleted backlog.
What is the rate of return or do you have a thought on inventory around that drilled uncompleted backlog in the Wattenberg? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In terms of what's an optimal amount or what our expected amount...? Where do you think you will be yeah exactly an expected amount of...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think back in March recall we thought we would end the year at about 125 wells.
That may increase another 25 thereabout if we don't see the type of sustained higher price environment I was making reference to.
So a modest build from where we were in March but not a lot.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Bob Brackett from Bernstein Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
A quick couple.
One on the Powder River farm-out is that farm-out the entire strat column or is it limited to certain zones? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> It is limited to certain zones Bob.
Which are those? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> It's those below the coalbed methane.
Got you.
And for Yeti the area under closure looks comparable to Big Foot or Cascade.
Is that a reach or should we assume comparable oil in place? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Bob I'd say at this point we don't know.
That's why we have to drill the appraisal wells.
With the one point and the area that we have you could get the visual but I think you have to get more on the sand distribution and continuity across that overall structure so we're going to be appraising it later.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Paul Grigel from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
With the operational improvements you've outlined has there been a change to your view on what the base decline is for the company and then subsequently what you view as a maintenance CapEx to hold production flat going forward? Okay.
Both of those are pretty understandable questions and I appreciate your asking them.
I think back in March we told you we thought we had about a $3 billion spend to be able to maintain capital or to have a maintenance CapEx number.
That number is now down to $2.7 billion to maybe $2.9 billion so we've lowered that threshold in this process.
And as that – some of that has to do with the fact that we've done a great job to-date reducing the base decline.
Our guys and gals that handle that part of our assets have just done a phenomenal job.
I'm sure there's going to be continued improvement as we've begun to focus on it in the last quarter.
As we moved away from growth we found a lot of things that had been very positive.
And I think that you should continue to expect we'll find ways to reduce the type of decline we've had in our base historically and that's probably one of the real benefits – if there's a benefit of $50 $60 oil it's focusing on trying to do what you do every day less expensively and better and improve your efficiency.
And our ability to improve our efficiency around our base decline is probably one of the real super positives that came out of the first quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then just taking a look at the CapEx outlook obviously lowering the high end.
Given the increased drilling efficiencies and the additional service cost reductions that you guys have outlined that you received in March post the – when the guidance was set could you discuss the thoughts on only moderately reducing the CapEx guidance and how much flexibility is built in to that outlook? There's lot of -bit of (51:31) flexibility in that outlook.
We watch that fairly closely if we see oil prices further back up through the course of the second half of the year we would drill and put more than the approximately 25 that I made reference to earlier that we expect to add to the drilled but not completed category.
We have no interest in adding to an oversupplied market with production that doesn't give us a good rate of return.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one comes from John Herrlin from Société Générale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Just a quick one for Chuck since you are leaving us.
You've been through a lot of cycles Oryx Kerr-McGee Anadarko deepwater shales conventional.
When you look at the different play types the industry has pursued from a planning perspective is it more difficult to manage something that is iterative with the shales or deepwater given relative infrastructure-type risk? How do you view – how the business has changed over time in your career? A fluff question.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> John great question.
It's been a great ride through all of that.
There are different challenges in each one of them.
The thing that we found is as we study on these and prepare to execute these programs we get the right folks on it and the right service support we've been successful.
And we worked really hard as a company to get the right vendors tied into us and the right folks onboard within the company make sure we had the right talent attacking these problems.
And as long as we go at it right as long as we attack it right and as long as we have the support from the vendors community that we've always enjoyed and there're so many great ones out there that – each of them have their individual challenges but each of them you can accomplish if you go at it right.
Thanks Chuck.
Last one from me is Thorvald.
When will that TD? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah John.
Thorvald's probably got a couple months two months maybe.
We're about halfway down.
It's a 30 000-foot well so we got a ways to go.
All right.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> All right thank you.
I have no more questions for you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well operator thank you.
I'd like to close with a couple of things.
One I'd really like to take a moment and thank Chuck and Cathy Douglas who are both here this morning who we announced last week were going to retire.
Both have had incredible impacts on our company socially culturally and operationally.
To use a sports analogy we are not going to replace them we're going to reload.
You cannot replace Cathy and you cannot replace Chuck.
But I'm pretty confident we can reload and do things the way we've been doing it because we have a tremendous culture.
We have a great organization but we're going to truly miss both of them.
So from all of us it will be very difficult to be on these calls in the future and not have both of them around the table.
And the last thing I want to just continue to emphasize is that we are in this environment really seeking value.
We're going to continue to look for value we're not going to look for growth and we're going to maintain flexibility so that when the markets do give us that right opportunity to go back into a growth mode we're ready.
But I think this will be one of the last companies you see trying to grow in a market where there's as much uncertainty as we believe there is in terms of the expected rates of return that would come from a price environment today that looks a little choppy.
So I know you guys have a busy day.
Appreciate everyone dialing in this morning loved the questions and we'll talk to you in a quarter.
Thanks so much.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining and enjoy the rest of your day.