Good morning.
My name is Carly and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this call is being recorded today May 05 2011.
Thank you.
I’d now like to introduce Ms.
Maryon Davis you may begin your call.
Thank you Carly and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the BlueLinx first quarter 2011 conference call.
With us this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to use them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer George Judd.
Thanks Maryon.
Good morning thank you for joining us today.
Before beginning our remarks regarding the first quarter 2011 results I would like comment on our press release issued April 26 2011 announcing a $60 million planned rights offering.
We filed the registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission which contains a preliminary prospectus as the rights offering across these proceeds will not have comments or take any questions regarding the offering.
We will take questions at the conclusion of this call regarding our first quarter results.
Thank you for your understanding of this matter and with I will turn the call over to Douglas Goforth Chief Financial Officer to review the first quarter.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I’ll start with an overview of the quarterly results and George will provide an operations review of the quarter and close with final perspective.
For those of you following along with the slides posted on the Investor Relations section in the BlueLinx website I will begin with slide 5.
Overall sales for the first quarter ended April 2 totaled $390.6 million down 9.4% or approximately $40.4 million from the first quarter of 2010 which benefited from the first time homebuyer tax credit.
Specialty sales increased slightly year-over-year reflecting a 1% increase in product selling prices offset by a small decline in volumes.
Structural product sales decreased 20.8% from the same period last year.
This decrease was driven by 25.2% decrease in units sold and reflects a 4.4% year-over-year increase in product selling prices as demand for these products softened during the quarter.
Specialty products comprised 59% of total sales up from 53% in the first quarter of 2010 as we continued to focus on value added products and services.
Overall unit volume declined a 11.8% compared to the year ago period.
Housing continues to underperform actual total US housing starts decline 9.9% for the first quarter of 2011 compared to the same period last year with single-family starts which our business is closely tied to down 21.3%.
The environment for home building and home remodeling continues to face substantial headwinds with an overhand of inventory low consumer confidence and high unemployment.
These conditions combined with the loss of the first homebuyer tax credit an extreme win a weather condition negatively impacted our first quarter financial results.
Turning to slide 6 BlueLinx generated approximately $46 million in gross profit for the quarter.
Overall gross margin was 11.8% which is down 0.3% from prior year quarter.
Structural margins were flat with the prior year quarter at 10.7% and improve 1.2% from the fourth quarter due our emphasis on price discipline and margin improvement.
We consider 10.7% a strong structural margin performance considering the price and demand challenges that we face in our market.
Specialty gross margin for the quarter was 13.8% compared with 14.4% in the year ago quarter.
The specialty margin decline is largely result of a shift to the lower margin channel for certain specialty products in a highly competitive pricing environment.
Total operating expenses decreased to $51.4 million from $60.3 million a year ago and included $7.2 million in real estate gains.
We have been managing our costs diligently and will continue to manage our cost structure relative to business conditions as we move forward in 2011.
The company reported an operating loss for the first quarter of $5.1 million compared to an operating loss of $8 million in the prior year period reflecting a $6 million decrease in gross profit and an $8.9 million decrease in offering expense.
EBITDA improved $2.3 million over the prior year period and reflects the real estate gains for quarter during the quarter and our ongoing commitment to cost management and operational efficiency.
Our first quarter net loss of $12.3 million or $0.40 per diluted share compares with the net loss of $14.7 million or $0.48 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2010.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expense of $7.3 million which includes $1.8 million in pretax non-cash interest income related to our interest rate swap compared to interest expense of $6.5 million in the prior year period which included a $0.8 million in pretax non-cash interest income associated with our interest rate swap.
The current year net loss is after a tax benefit of a $114 000 compared to an immaterial tax provision in the year ago quarter.
Turning to cash flow on slide 7 during the quarter we used approximately $63 million in cash from operating activities primarily reflecting seasonal increases in accounts receivable and inventories of $50.7 million and $32.1 million respectively which were partially offset by corresponding increase in accounts payable and other current items.
This compares with net cash used by operations of $46.6 million in the first quarter of 2010 which benefited from a $20.2 million tax refund.
Cash provided by investing activities was approximately $5.1 million and included $8.8 million in proceeds from the sale of certain surplus property and a $3.7 million from investment and property plant and equipments which includes our new facility in Tennessee.
Cash provided by financing activities was $49.6 million for the quarter driven by a $43.3 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
A $12.6 million increase in bank overdrafts and a $6.2 million increase in restricted cash related to the mortgage.
The resulting cash balance at April 2 was $6.2 million compared with $13.4 million a year ago.
Moving to slide 8 we had approximately $119 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facility as of quarter end.
The combined debt balance of our mortgage in revolving credit agreement was $426.1 an increase of approximately $43 million from fourth quarter 2010.
Net debt at the end of the first quarter was $383 million compared to $338 million in January 1st and was up approximately $53 million from a year ago.
Turning to slide 9 cash cycle days for the first quarter totaled 55.
That compares with 52 days for the fourth quarter of 2010 and 49 days compared to the same period a year ago.
The increase in cash cycle days is a result of strategic inventory investments and support of national program business.
We continue to balance inventory levels with the weakening demand environment but also continuing to support new products and vendors as part of our focus on specialty product growth.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Now let me turn the call back over to George.
Thanks Doug.
BlueLinx’s first quarter operational performance was impacted by the continued difficult conditions of the housing and construction markets.
Discontinuation of the first time homebuyer tax credit which benefited the prior year quarter and extreme winter weather conditions.
In the first three months 2011 unadjusted starts totaled just a 121 000 which were 13 300 starts below last year decline of 9.9%.
Single family starts totaled just 89 900 units compared to a 114 300 last year a decline of 21.3%.
Both double starts and single family starts for March are up over February but still we are below March 2010.
March 2011 was the second slowest March on record only March 2009 with a space of 520 000 starts was lower in terms of residential construction.
First time homebuyer tax credit are official stimulated home buying and renovation in the first quarter 2010.
The first quarter of 2011 started very slowly and significantly impacted by the severe winter weather.
Well we often face challenging weather conditions in the first quarter this year the weather was more severe and affected us in markets where it’s usually not an issue.
Against this backdrop our structural business unit volume declined 25.2% our lower margin OSP business declined more than our other wood based structural business as we focused our selling efforts on more profitable product lines.
Our same number of volumes were down more than we expected as we are overly aggressive and managing for positive contribution dollars.
We sacrificed the volume for margins during the quarter to achieve 10.7% overall structural margins consistent with prior year quarter when prices were increasing and margins were expanding.
In our specialty business we saw unit volume growth in the product lines we have strategic growth initiatives we grew our outdoor living product category which includes decking and railing products our metal business installation and starting a trim business is also expanded during the quarter.
Gross margins for specialty products were pressured during the quarter as a result of channel mix and a highly competitive market gross margins of 13.8% were down over the prior year quarter by 60 basis points.
Looking at our operating expenses on a quarter-over-quarter comparative basis we again demonstrated our ability to control cost as total operating expenses were down excluding the impact of real estate gains.
As we move forward in 2011 we remain focused on providing dependable high quality service to our customers as the home construction industry will situate back to a normalized level.
We expect our business rise in new home construction remain challenging for much of 2011 as housing slowly recovers.
We continue to aggressively pursue our long term strategic objectives to profitably grow specialty product revenues to effectively manage our structural business and to possibly outgrow the market over the long term.
While the industry works its way through this historic housing correction we’re encouraged by certain economic forecasters who point to a favorable longer term outlook for household creation and new home construction.
Strategically our shift to specialty products remains our number one strategic initiatives as we move forward during 2011.
We intend to proceed as the market leader operating at national nationwide business platform that we believe is unique and compelling.
With that I would like to open the call to questions.
Operator will you please instruct everyone on how to ask questions? Questions-and-Answers Session Good morning everyone.
I have just three quick questions please.
I can’t ask the questions that everyone ask.
So with your revenues down 9% versus single family homes which were down 21% do you believe you are gaining any share towards? Yeah first of all good morning Steve and thanks for understanding on the questions that you really want to ask but yeah I mean it’s small share growth and its regional so there is market that are – that we were performing better you know and it’s one part to tell the story so 21% revenues down 9% does that mean we grew 12% market share I wouldn’t be so bold to say that but it means that we are expanding our share.
Well could tell us which markets were performing really well and which has disappointed you? Well we are performing stronger in the North East in north kind of Pittsburg Ohio those kind of markets we are outgrowing the market substantially there we are outgrowing the market in the Carolinas I explained that California continues to be a struggle for us and in Pacific North West.
No recently we have made inroads during certainly January and February we have been gaining the share.
Great.
And then are there any specialty products lines that particularly excite you for the long term? Yeah in our global source product so we have a focus on growing products that have shifted their production from North America to Asia and South America and we’ve invested a lot of time and money for the last two years on expanding our abilities to source those products and move them across the oceans and to the ports and across our distribution network and we’re starting to see great results from those products like that would be in a real high end specialty products like railing components and kits and our metal business is expanding a lot of our exterior trims and citing products so as products have migrated offshore wishing our growth accelerate.
Okay and finally you indicated at one stage that you thought you could leverage your distribution network and your fleet of trucks to service I guess external businesses but they were similar and need the same kind of logistic services any progressive report on that front? Yeah when we’ve got in some businesses that are starting to show some traction and a lot of those are changing space to us and really our strategy as we have this you know the business that were in the products that were in and the customers that we serve and then to grow our spend our growth time in growing our share and those products intend to grow in tangent customers and in tangent space.
So example of tangent space of product would be outdoor living.
We use to do decking wood decking and some railings and things but we really expanded that product line and now we are doing things like fire pits and the metal that goes inside the fire pits and the stone and that used to build fire pits things like to go along with an expanding outdoor living strategy that we used to not sell when we get into that business it get us into tangent customers because we didn’t use to sell the landscape kind of supply yards.
Now we are opening up landscape supply yards.
So the two strategy is both to expand customers and product lines end up connecting back together again and we are seeing some good traction there.
And another area to focus on for us has been what we call specialty distributors there are folks that supply roofing contractors or sighting contractors and there are group of customers that are different and traditionally you know back in 2005 our core customer for Love (ph) yards.
So we spend a lot of time and resources on developing relationships and product offerings that allow us to penetrate that specialty distributor class customer and we have made great progress there and that gets us into some new product lines and they will say you are coming to us can you do this? And a lot of that trimming expanding sighting offerings and we are seeing some good growth there.
Very good.
Well I guess I wish you good luck in both your financing and to your Boston Brunch.
There you go how about that – last year.
Yeah let’s hope.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thanks Dave.
Thank you all for joining us this morning and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Kimberly and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today Thursday August 04 2011.
Thank you.
I’d now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
Ms.
Davis you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kimberly and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the BlueLinx second quarter 2011 conference call.
With us this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to use them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer George Judd.
Good morning thank you for joining us today.
Before beginning our remarks regarding the second quarter 2011 results I’d like comment on our press release issued July 25 2011 announcing the expiration of the subscription period for the previously announced $60 million rights offering.
The rights offering was fully subscribed and as a result on July 28 BlueLinx received net proceeds of approximately $58.5 million from the offering.
The newly subscribed shares were issued on July 28 2011 resulting in approximately 61.8 million total shares outstanding.
Joining this prepared remarks Douglas Goforth our Chief Financial Officer will provide a pro forma overview of the financial impact of the completed rights offering.
We thank all of our shareholders for there support while we are still receiving information on our shareholder population post rights offering service continues to hold approximately 54.5% the same percentage of shares help prior to the rights offering.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Doug to begin the review of the second quarter results.
Thank you George and good morning everyone.
I’ll start with an overview of the quarterly results and George will provide an operations review of the quarter and close with the final perspective.
For those of you following along with the slides posted on the Investor Relations section in the BlueLinx website I will begin with slide 5.
Overall sales for the second quarter ended July 2 totaled $500.8 million down 7.4% or approximately $40 million from the second quarter of 2010.
Specialty sales increased 10.7% year-over-year reflecting a 16.5% increase in unit volume partially offset by a 5.8% decline in product selling prices.
Structural product sales decreased 27.1% from the same period last year.
This decrease was driven by an 18.9% decrease in volume and an 8.2% year-over-year decrease in product selling prices as prices for wood-based structural products price during the quarter.
Specialty products comprised 62% of total sales up from 52% in the second quarter of 2010 as we continued to focus on higher margin products and services.
Overall unit volume declined 0.5% compared to the year ago period.
Housing continues to underperform actual total US housing starts decline 4% for the second quarter of 2011 compared to the same period last year with single-family starts which represents our largest share down 13.1%.
BlueLinx generated approximately $58 million in gross profit for the quarter.
Overall gross margin was 11.5% which is down 0.4% from the prior year quarter.
Structural margins of 8.6% were down compare to the prior year quarter reflecting competitive pricing pressures.
Specialty gross margin for the quarter was 14.4% compared with 15.5% a year ago.
Primarily result of the channel shift from the warehouse channel and lower prices which were temporarily inflated in the year ago period due to the Chilean earthquake.
Total operating expenses decreased to $59.4 million from $60.5 million a year ago as we continue to tightly manage our cost structure relative to business conditions.
The decline in operating expenses primarily reflects decreases in variable compensation depreciation expenses and other items partially offset by a $1.1 million increase in fuel expenses.
The company reported an operating loss for the second quarter of $1.8 million compared to an operating profit of $3.6 million in the prior year period reflecting a $6.5 million decrease in gross profit and a $1.1 million decrease in operating expenses.
EBITDA of $0.7 million decline $6.3 million over the prior year period driven by declining gross profit.
Our second quarter net loss of $9.8 million or $0.31 per diluted share compares with the net loss of $3.4 million or a $0.11 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2010.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expense of $7.7 million compared to interest expenses of $6.9 million in the prior year period which included $1.3 in pretax non-cash interest income associated with our interest rate swap.
The current year net loss is after a tax provision of a $158 000 compared to an immaterial tax provision in the year ago quarter.
Looking at year-to-date results on slide six.
Sales for the six month ended July 2<sup>nd</sup> totaled $891.4 million down 8.3% from the same period last year.
Gross margin of 11.7% decreased from 12% in the year ago period.
Year-to-date reported operating expenses which included $7.2 million in real estate gains decreased 8.3% from the same period last year.
The resulting upgrading loss of $6.9 million was largely driven by the housing related dropping demand.
EBITDA decline $4 million over the prior year period due to the decrease in gross profit partially offset by real estate gains and operating expenses.
The year-to-date reported net loss of $22.1 million or $0.71 per share compares with the net loss of $18.1 million or $0.50 a year ago.
Turning to cash flow on slide 7 during the quarter we used $38.3 million in cash from operating activities primarily reflecting seasonal increases in accounts receivable of $35.8 million partially offset by inventory decreases of $7.7 million during the month of June as we right size levels to the current environment.
And net decreases in accounts payable and other current items.
This compares with net cash used by operations of $34.3 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Cash used an investing activities was approximately $1.6 million primarily reflecting investments in our branches including our new facility in Nashville.
Cash provided by financing activities was $39.8 million for the quarter driven by a $48.4 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
A $6.9 million decrease in bank overdrafts and a $1.6 million increase in restricted cash related to the mortgage.
For the first half of 2011 we use approximately $101 million of cash for operating activities compared to approximately $81 million in cash during the year ago period which benefited from a $20.2 million federal income tax refund.
Cash provided by financing activities during the first half of 2011 was $89.4 million driven by a $91.7 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving debt facility at $7.8 million increase and restricted cash related to the mortgage and $5.8 million increase in back overdrafts.
This compares to $70.8 million used in financing activities driven by a $68.7 million increase in borrowings and $9.9 million increase in bank overdrafts and $6.6 million increase in restricted cash related to the mortgage for the similar year ago period.
The resulting cash balance of July 2<sup>nd</sup> was $6.1 million compared with $18.8 million a year ago.
Moving to slide 8 we had approximately $94 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facility as of quarter end.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage in revolving credit facility was approximately $474.6 an increase of approximately $49 million from first quarter 2011.
Net debt at the end of the second quarter was approximately $430 million compared to $383 million at April 2<sup>nd</sup> and was up approximately $65 million from a year ago.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter the previously announce $60 million rights offering close.
Slide nine represents a pro forma second quarter balance sheet reflecting the rights offering.
On July 28 2011 we issued approximately 28.6 million shares and receive $60 million in gross proceeds from the rights offering.
$56 million of the proceeds from the rights offering were used to immediately pay down the revolving credit facility.
Also in conjunction with the rights offering we negotiated amendment to our revolving credit agreement which became effective on July 29<sup>th</sup> 2011.
On a pro forma basis assuming these transactions that occur at the end of the second quarter that combine debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit facility with decline by approximately $94 million to $380.3 million.
Our net debt we filed $374.2 million and excess availability would be approbatory $155 million.
Turning to slide 10.
Cash cycle days for the second quarter total 58 that compares with 55 days for the first quarter of 2010 and 49 days compared to the same period a year ago.
The increase in cash cycle days was driven by both the build of inventory and anticipation of the stronger spring selling season and higher levels of specialty product.
We continue to balance inventory levels with the weakening demand environment but also continuing to support strategic products and vendors as part of our ongoing focus on specialty product growth.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Now let me turn the call over to George.
Thank you Doug.
Before our comments further on the quarter I’d like to talk about the recently released housing data.
According to the U.S.
Commerce Department in housing starts increased 14.6% sequentially to a seasonally adjusted in a rate of 629 000 units.
The highest levels since January as ground breaking from multi-family units increased 31.6%.
Many economy is believe that the shape of the housing recovery starting to form when that will be one in which multi-family market recovers before the single-family home market recovers.
I also believe that the multi-family segment believe the recovery market-by-market.
BlueLinx is more closely tie the single-family housing market.
We also participate in the wood frame multi-family segment.
High rise multi-family is left significant force.
We report also showed our gains in the construction to single-family homes.
Regardless of which market recovery first any pick up the housing this could BlueLinx and it certainly are enhancing to participate in this recovery.
BlueLinx is operational performance during the second quarter a well impacted by the continued difficult conditions with the housing and construction markets benefited by our ability to execute on our specialty product strategy.
In our specialty business we saw unit volume growth led by product lines while we have strategic growth initiatives.
Overall a unit volume grew 16.5% as we executed these growth strategies we have said in previous calls this recoveries unfolding market-by-market and we intend to expand our share and recovering markets by targeting specific customers and products in specific markets.
Specific sales as a percentage of total revenue are 62% in the second quarter surpassing our long-term goal of 60%.
Specialty revenue grew 10.7% expanding across all the distribution channels in both reload and direct channel business showing strong year-over-year growth.
Gross profit increased $1.2 million or 2.8% on margins of 14.4%.
We will continue to focus on increasing our specialty products revenue growing well above 60% target.
Our structural business had a more difficult quarter.
Structural unit volume declined 18.9% as we focus on maintaining margin in a falling price environment we saw the average prices of key periods of lumber plywood and OSB decline approximately 12% from the end of the first quarter and 20% from the year ago quarter.
While committed to service in our customer structural product needs we focus on inventory turns and fill rates as structure wood product prices decline.
We had product available to sell managed our margins versus unit volume growth and achieve a legal margin of 8.6% while providing our customers with a products they needed.
Prolonged market declines are difficult environments in which we achieve acceptable margins.
We continue to make appropriate investments in people and processes to help ensure our success as we move forward in 2011 and beyond.
Recently I made the decision to realign all of the sales operations for the east and west to report to Joe Kastelic our new Senior Vice President in the sales.
Joe joined BlueLinx in May of last year as Senior Vice President of our Denver sales center.
In his role here at Atlanta he will oversee sales operations for the entire company.
He will continue to refine and adjust our management team to support our market strategies and provide best in energy service to our customers and vendors.
We are also making investments in processes and systems that will make it even easier for our customers to do business at BlueLinx.
During the quarter we rolled out several pilot markets in our new E-Commerce platform branded My Bluelinx Online.
This new E-Commerce initiative provides our customers with 24/7 access to their transactional data and shipment notifications to an online easy to use and navigate website.
Customers are adapting well to the side and have sided to provide this enhanced we are excited to provide this enhanced capability to our customers.
Future phases will include e-catalog and online purchasing to further enhance our customer service level.
In summary we believe the second quarter performance demonstrates that BlueLinx is operating effectively in a tough environment.
We continue to strengthen our long-term value proposition with customers and vendors by maintaining appropriate margins and declining to participate and less than profitable businesses.
We are making key investments in the inventory sales and systems and we are focusing resources on our specialty product growth initiatives.
Our long-term objective continues to be to grow specialty products to more than 60% of our total sales and we exceeded this goal during this quarter.
We’ll continue to execute against this goal working hard to achieve sustainable and profitable specialty growth.
We’ll continue to manage our structural business for profitability and focus on value-added products within our structural family of products.
With that I will open the call to questions.
Operator would you please instruct everyone on how to ask questions? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of [Alan Weber] (Inaudible).
Good morning.
Hello.
Hi Alan.
Just a few questions one is when you talked about the structural and specialty products have you may had such a change in volume and it’s just unclear why such a percent of change.
I mean in structural has something changed there were you (inaudible) in those market share or just can you explain that?  Yeah.
On the structural business Alan during the quarter and the last year we had substantial increases in price and which drove demand.
So we had last year we had the housing tax credit which inflated demand for some building products earlier in the year.
We didn’t have that this year and then we had inflating price environment which always drives an emotional demand increase.
So we didn’t see that this years.
The second thing is that we had a prolongs 12 weeks of continuous price decline and when the price has fallen 12 weeks in a row we have to really tightly manage our inventories and manage our margin expectations.
We don’t want to grow our volume and a declining price environment many times the products did we are procuring have three or four weeks lead time to our facilities.
So if we buy it today it comes in four weeks and it’s four weeks worth of market decline less than when we bought it one in negative margin position.
So it’s important for BlueLinx to manage our inflows and our outflow of commodity structural products in those declining periods and we did that.
So we did pass on some business.
We probably did lose some share during the quarter but it would have been less than acceptable margins where BlueLinx make a profit.
Okay.
And then can you talk about as you talk about that can you talk about as you see it changes kind of on the competitive environment just given whether you’ve seen on a local basis other distributors out of business or where that’s been? Well it’s a difficult business for everybody and we have seen some competitors go back we’ve seen people close different facilities in different markets very difficult and that’s why I’m pleased with our margin performance during the quarter is a stuff out there and all of the competitors are fighting over a much smaller buy.
So we’re presented our margin and that’s also why earlier last year we talked about special targeted programs special customers and specialty products that we’re focused on and it’s not everything and it’s the areas where we think there’s opportunities for BlueLinx to gain share at acceptable margins and that’s what we’ve dedicate in our resources and is what we’ve shown in our results.
Okay.
My last question is can you talk about and I really don’t want to get projections but kind of what you expect the cash flow relative to last year if your cash flow is flat with last year’s second half.
You really consume quite a bit of cash this year which kind of almost to offset on top of right sourcing just curious how do you see the cash flow for the balance of the year relative to last year? This is Doug.
If you look at our first half cashes it’s in line with what we use last year if you take out the tax refund that we received last year.
In the second half of the year we always generate cash as you bring down working capital et cetera.
So our expectations right now is our cash usage for 2011 will be slightly higher than 2010.
We always have a proviso on that because as the business environment starts to pickup we could make some strategic purchases in inventory et cetera to take into the beginning of 2012.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover of D.
A.
Davidson.
Good morning everyone.
You actually answered some of my questions but just Doug on your last comment you could make some strategic inventory acquisitions I mean that doesn’t entail speculating.
Does it? No.
You would just lay in if the fighters were very very…  It’s solely different opportunities at the end of year Steve.
There could be one if there’s always somebody out there who want to buy promotions and if we believe that the prices right on those and the bills that go along with that make sense of BlueLinx then we could participate in that.
We always participate in some form or another winter buys but you can put $1 million into winter buy program so you could put $10 million in the several winter buy programs.
Perfect.
[Partially] commodity side Steve.
This is the specialty of the business the values we provide for many of our manufacturing partners is helping them level low to production.
So if they’re producing product later this year for the spring season and they make it so that it’s – make the deal so to speak so that’s favorable for BlueLinx to purchase that product in December versus February when we might eat into March we do participate in these programs.
Got it thanks.
Now how are business trends in July versus the second quarter? Well I mean business is still struggling out there it’s slow.
Our trends are consistent with the latter half of the second quarter and the latter half of the second quarter was better than the first half but it’s still tough out there.
Yeah.
I can see.
Now that you hit your target of 60% on specialties.
I mean I think are you going to reassess targets at all or you just want to grow the overall play? No.
we’re going to reassess the target we’ll move that target up we’ll move the target up and announce what that target is after we have a couple of quarters where we beat it because we did have a struggling structural quarter which we talked about and that was due to pricing and strategy on our part.
So that squeeze the number somewhat but we like to have a 16% growth 16.5% growth in specialty if we see that sustained which I’m counting on our team to produce those results then we’ll up to target.
Very good over the last several years your relationships with Georgia-Pacific has kind of changed.
So overall on the structural side have you got a lot of new suppliers I mean is the landscape very different? Yeah.
We do business with all of the major force product producers including some that the market views as competitors but Georgia-Pacific is still a very large supplier to BlueLinx and where we add value we do a lot of business.
Okay.
Just a couple more if I could.
Your unit volume is only down 0.5% in the quarter and we compare that to the decline in housing it seems like you actually outperformed.
So but I think you said you might have lost some shares.
So can you reconcile that? Just on the structural side right.
So on the structural side of the business we didn’t changed a lot of business so there was – there’s always that noisy right on inventory what the inventory levels in the channel are.
I don’t think that BlueLinx maintained or gained our share on the structural side of the business during the quarter simply because of the business we patched on could have taken a lot more business that business was out there and we didn’t take it and I view that as share relation somebody took it.
Got it.
Okay final one and this is kind of a broad question obviously you’ve been working hard to address the balance sheet and you paid down $56 million of the debt and you have more liquidity than currently when you ended the quarter.
So how would you characterize your relationship with your lenders? I mean are they still very supportive?  Oh extremely supportive particularly on the ABO side the bank group was very positive of our efforts we’ve been working on this whole rights offering process including ABO and mortgage amendment since January and we pretty much had everything agreed to with the ABO lenders in May and signed off on that and are just waiting for the right offering to close.
But the changes that we got on the ABO particularly some tweaks to the advanced rates et cetera as I look out there companies who are in this space have publicly provided information our advanced particularly in accounts receivable and inventory or up there at the top.
So we do an extremely good job of managing our accounts receivable and inventory.
And they see that and worked with us because of that.
Great.
Now it seems like you guys are doing everything right in a really tough environment.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Steve.
Thanks.
I appreciate it.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
George for closing remarks.
Okay thank you Operator.
In closing I would again like to thank our shareholders for their continued support and to thank our employees they’ve been working very very hard and safely and very effectively in the difficult market I appreciate that everyday.
And thank you buddy for attending our call.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen it does concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Nicole and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded Thursday November 3 2011.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
Ma’am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Nicole and welcome everyone to the BlueLinx Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
With us this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the Company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Doug Goforth.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I’ll start with an overview of the quarterly results and George will provide an operations review of the quarter and close with the final perspective.
BlueLinx’s financial performance for the third quarter of 2011 improved compared to a year-ago as we continue to make strides growing our specialty products business and as we continue to effectively manage our structural products business.
Today we reported a GAAP net loss of $6.2 million or $0.12 per diluted share on revenue of $472.9 million.
That compares to a GAAP net loss of $14.9 million or $0.48 per diluted share on revenue of $464.7 million in the third quarter of last year.
Now let’s review the results in more detail.
For those of you following along with the slides posted on the Investors Relation section of the BlueLinx’s website I will begin with slide five.
Overall sales for the third quarter ended October 1 totaled $472.9 million up 1.8% or approximately $8 million from the third quarter of 2010.
Specialty sales increased 12.4% year-over-year reflecting an 11.4% increase in unit volume and a slight increase in product selling prices.
Structural product sales decreased 12.4% from the same period last year.
This decrease was driven by a 14% decrease in volume and a 1.6% year-over-year increase in product selling prices as prices for wood-based structural products stabilized during the quarter compared to the volatility experienced in the year-ago period.
Specialty products comprised 61% of total sales up from 55% in the third quarter of 2010 as we continue to focus on higher margin products and services.
Overall unit volume rose 0.1% compared to the year-ago period.
The housing market and overall economy remain very challenging.
For the current quarter actual U.S.
single family housing starts were down 1.4% as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Actual total U.S.
housing starts increased 6.2% for the third quarter of 2011 compared to the same period last year.
With BlueLinx’s end use markets more closely tied to single family housing we believe the increase in revenue for the quarter driven by our specialty products growth represents improved operating performance and expanded specialty market share.
BlueLinx generated approximately $58 million in gross profit for the quarter which is an $8.3 million increase over the same period last year.
Overall gross margin was 12.3% for the quarter up from last year’s 10.7% as a result of initiatives to increase margins across all product categories combined with increases in underlying product prices.
Both structural and specialty margins rose during the quarter compared to the year-ago period.
Structural margins of 10% were up 2.6% compared to the prior year quarter; reflecting pricing discipline and more stable pricing environment compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Average third quarter 2011 benchmark wood-based structural prices were up approximately 2.2% compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Specialty gross margin for the quarter was 15.1% compared with 14.4% a year-ago the result of robust unit volume growth and slightly higher product selling prices.
Third quarter operating expenses of $57.1 million were flat compared to the same period a year ago and included $2.1 million and $1.9 million in net gains from significant special items respectively.
Our third quarter reported operating expense included the following significant special items; an insurance gain of $1.2 million on the loss of Newtown Connecticut real property improvements.
During the heavy snow storms in February in the Northeast our Newtown Connecticut facility suffered a series of structural collapses leaving the facility severely impaired and ultimately damaged beyond repair.
Since this time we have been successfully servicing the Newtown market from our neighboring full service facility in Bellingham Massachusetts and Denville New Jersey a gain of $2 million from the modification of the Company’s corporate headquarters lease agreement.
On September 30 2011 the company entered into an amendment to its lease agreement for its corporate headquarters building.
Under terms of the amendment the company was released from its obligations with respect to building vacated in late 2007 when the Company consolidated its leased Atlanta headquarters and sales centers into one building from two buildings.
Severance charges of $1.1 million.
We recorded $1.1 million in severance charges for headcount reductions completed during the quarter to further reduce costs and realigned our operation.
We estimate the annualized savings resulting from this realignment to be in excess of $5 million.
The company reported an operating profit for the third quarter of $1.2 million compared to an operating loss $7.3 million in the prior year period reflecting an $8.3 million increase in gross profit.
EBITDA of $3.4 million increased $7.8 million over the prior year period driven by the improvement in gross profit.
Our third quarter net loss of $6.2 million or $0.12 per diluted share compares with a net loss of $14.9 million or $0.48 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2010.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expense of $7 million compared to interest expense of $8.1 million in the prior year period which included $1.2 million in pre-tax non-cash interest income associated with our interest rate swap.
The current year net loss is after a tax provision of $94 000 compared to a tax benefit of $778 000; which included a tax refund of approximately $660 000 related to our 2009 amended return in the prior year period.
Looking at year-to-date result on slide six; sales for the nine months ended October 1 totaled $1.36 billion down 5% from the same period last year.
Gross margin of 11.9% increased from 11.6% in the year-ago period.
Year-to-date reported operating expenses which included $8.8 million in net gains on significant special items decreased 5.7% from the same period last year which included $1.9 million in net gains on significant special items.
The resulting operating loss of $5.7 million was largely driven by the housing-related drop in demand.
EBITDA increased $3.8 million over the prior year period due to a decrease in gross profit offset by net gains on significant special items.
The year-to-date reported net loss of $28.3 million or $0.75 a share compares with a net loss of $33 million or $1.08 a year-ago.
Turning to cash flow on slide seven during the quarter receivables decreased by of $21 million in accordance with the seasonal slowdown and inventories decreased $8.9 million.
These decreases were partially offset by $5.9 million decrease in accounts payable.
Third quarter net cash provided by operations was $17.5 million.
This compares with net cash used in operations of $33 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Cash generated during the third quarter of 2011 was limited because working capital needs largely from the specialty product business increased late in the quarter as demand continued to grow versus last year.
Cash provided by investing activities was $0.5 million from the investment and property plant and equipment.
Cash used by financing activities was $17.2 million for the quarter as discussed on last quarter’s call to previously announced $60 million rights offering closed during the third quarter.
On July 29 2011 we issued approximately 28.6 million shares and received $60 million in gross proceeds from the rights offering.
$56 million of the proceeds from the rights offering were used to immediately pay down the revolving credit facility.
In conjunction with the rights offering we negotiated an amendment to our mortgage agreement which in part allowed for the release of $38.3 million in total funds held as collateral under the mortgage agreement saving $2.4 million a year in interest expense.
The released cash was used for an immediate prepayment on the mortgage loan without incurring a prepayment penalty.
Also in conjunction with the rights offering we negotiated an amendment to our revolving credit facility which became effective on July 29 2011 and further improved our borrowing capacity.
The resulting cash balance at October 1 was $5.9 million compared with $12.9 million a year-ago.
Moving to slide eight; we had approximately $151 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facilities as of quarter-end.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was approximately $365.4 million a decrease of approximately $109 million from second quarter of 2011.
Net debt at the end of the third quarter was approximately $357 million compared to $430 million at July 2 and was up approximately $10 million from a year-ago.
Turning to slide nine cash cycle days for the third quarter totaled 58.
That compares with 58 days for the second quarter of 2011 and 51 days compared to the same period a year-ago.
The increase in cash cycle days from a year-ago was driven by higher levels of specialty product inventory as demand continued to grow versus last year.
We continue to balance the inventory levels with demand environment while also continuing to support strategic products and vendors as part of our constant focus on specialty product growth.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Now let me turn the call over to George.
Thank you Doug and good morning.
Recently I attended to National Housing Industry meetings where housing forecasters economists and business leaders discussed their views and projections for our industry.
I would characterize the consensus of the housing forecasters attending the meeting is being optimistic for the balance of the year and next year.
The consensus of the business leaders was less optimistic.
The most recently issued housing data from the U.S.
Commerce Department indicates that in September builders had begun work on a seasonally adjusted 658 000 homes that’s 15% increase from August and the best pace since April 2010 when the federal home buyers’ tax credit temporarily boosted construction.
Still the level is roughly half of the 1.2 million starts that economists say is consistent with a healthy housing market.
The challenges continue for our industry and for BlueLinx however the numbers are showing modest improvement as the housing recovery begins.
BlueLinx’s operational performance during the third quarter while impacted by the continued difficult conditions of the housing and construction markets showed we are benefiting from our value-added strategies.
As we continued to take share with specialty products and continue to manage our structural business for possibility our results improved.
We narrowed our comparable third quarter adjusted net loss by approximately $5.4 million relative to year-ago.
In our specialty business we saw our unit volume growth and gross margin expansion led by the product lines where we have strategic growth initiatives.
Examples of these products were focused on include high touch steel intensive products like metals exterior siding and trims and specialty lumber which on a year-over-year basis grew by over 20%.
Total specialty revenue grew 12.4% expanding across all distribution channels with both reload and direct channel business showing strong growth.
Gross profit increased $6.9 million or 18.2% on margins of 15.1%.
Specialty sales as a percent of total revenue reached 61% in the third quarter surpassing our long-term goal of 60% again this quarter up from 55% a year-ago.
In keeping with our focus on specialty products we announced today our plans to launch a complete line of privately branded engineered lumber products which we anticipate will be available beginning in February 13 2012.
In our structural business unit volume declined 14% due to the demand slow down and due to our pricing strategies which are based on making good decisions balancing volume with overall profitability and our ability to serve our customers in this very difficult environment.
We reduced contracts to purchase the commodity portion of the structural SKUs during the quarter and focused on value-added products within our structural family of products.
Our focus on value-added products along with improved underlying product pricing relative to the year-ago quarter resulted in gross margins of 10% for the quarter compared with – compared to 7.4% in the year-ago quarter.
We grew gross margin dollars generated approximately 17% or $2.7 million on 12% or $26.5 million less revenue.
Subsequent to the quarter-end after an extensive evaluation we made a decision to consolidate the Seattle Washington facility into the Portland Oregon facility and our Sacramento California facility into the Fremont California facility.
We remain very committed to the Seattle and Sacramento markets and our loyal customers.
We expect to continue to deliver same high level of service that our customers count on from BlueLinx from these consolidated neighboring full service facilities.
We’ll continue to look at all markets and businesses within BlueLinx and we’ll make the necessary changes in investments to improve our results.
We believe our approach is the right one and our third quarter performance demonstrates the positive impact of our operating strategies and initiatives.
We’re making prudent and appropriate decisions every day to strengthen our long-term value proposition with customers and vendors.
We continue to seize opportunities for profitable growth by focusing on growing our specialty business enhancing our customer service and maximizing the efficiency of our operations.
With that I will open the call to questions.
Operator will you please instruct everyone in how to ask questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of (Alan Weber) with Robotti &amp; Company.
Good morning.
The first question I had was Doug I missed part of it – when you were talking about the SG&amp;A in the third quarter was it $8 million of unusual items? No.
Not in the third quarter that was for the entire year year-to-date.
Okay and what about in the third quarter? No.
That was year-to-date numbers.
The third quarter numbers are the one that I specifically talked about and they’re also contained in our press release.
Okay that’s $2.1 million? The net.
Right.
Net is $2.1 million for those three items yes.
Okay.
Okay and then the other thing you made a comment about what used to have restricted cash on the balance sheet.
Has that balance sheet item kind of gone away and you used the cash to pay down part of your mortgage is that what took place? There was another noncurrent asset.
That was escrow money from our mortgage cash trap.
So yes that money has gone away we used it to pay down the mortgage.
Okay and then I guess for the quarter – so for the quarter if you’d take out the onetime gains you were basically breakeven at the operating level right? Maybe a slight loss I guess? Slight.
A slight loss in the quarter I just wanted to know what does it take for you to become – for you to really become profitable or your EBITDA to exceed your interest and CapEx.
Can you do that at the current level of revenue and when you talked about consolidating some facilities I guess after the quarter what that will mean financially? Well we’ve talked about a number of times on record what we believe the total housing starts need to be to return the company to profitability on a net income basis and that’s somewhere approaching approximately 900 000 starts.
With the costs that we’ve taken out it’s probably a little lower than that now.
And I would also say Doug and I talk about this quite a bit all these numbers change right? So as we continue to grow our specialty business if we manage our structural business the way we did in the third quarter which was managing it for profitability which we’ve been talking about for a long time and I think you can see that in our numbers 10% gross margin on our structural business in the quarter and growing our specialty business 15.1% margins at 61% of total revenues as those numbers can continue to expand and those become – those specialty and higher margin structural business continue to grow as a percent of our total revenue.
All of those numbers change for housing and that’s been an evolution through this recession that we’ve been in.
So the numbers change every year.
Yes as we consolidate a couple of facilities we’ll take out some expenses.
We add some expenses because we got to drive it little further but net-net we will take out some expenses.
As we continue to grow our focus product codes as a percentage of total revenue it dilutes the need for 900 000 starts.
So that number is always falling and it’s been falling for the last four years.
So it’s a moving target and I think that this quarter we were close to having an operating profit and we took some cost out since then.
So we’re getting real close.
And which is excellent.
And the facilities that you closed did you own any of those facilities? Yes.
We owned them all we owned both of them.
You owned both of those and what do you hope to get in terms of proceeds when you sell them? Well.
A lot.
We’ll sell them and we are actively doing that and we’ll pay off our mortgage and have some cash.
But we don’t know what that will be until it’s negotiated.
We’re – hopefully we’ll have some things to share in next quarter or the following quarters.
Just to elaborate that one of the facilities – the Sacramento facility is not part of our mortgage.
So whatever proceeds we get from the sale of that property will all be cash.
On the Seattle property we fully expect to – it’s been our history on all of our other real estate transactions to sell that for in excess or at least break even on whatever the mortgage allocation is.
Okay my last question now is when you talk about the private branded lumber what’s the financial impact of that going forward? Well it’s private branded engineered lumber right? So it’s not commodity lumber that’s a specialty product and we’ve been working for years.
Engineered lumber historically has been one of our most profitable product codes in the last couple of years it’s fallen off.
And so we had to make some changes to return to profitability to that.
So that’s what we’re working on.
So we might have a more national product offering.
It’s our brand we can have it manufactured closer to the markets.
So not just tied to one manufacturer and provide our engineered lumber.
Engineered lumber is a much more a technical sale than many of the products that BlueLinx sells.
So we have a lot of technical resources assigned to sell that product and we’ll be able to take that technical excellence across the country.
And long-term it’s a growth strategy short-term it’s a disruption of the brand and our customers have been buying from us.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Alan.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.
A.
Davidson.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Just a couple of questions please.
First of all now that specialty volume exceeds your 60% target are you going to ratchet that target higher or are you comfortable with the mix? No we’re going to continue to expand it.
And we haven’t – this is two quarters in a row that we beat our 60% goal.
We’re setting more product specific targets for the business we haven’t communicated a 65% goal or anything out there to the markets yet but when we think it’s appropriate we will.
But I mean – and I’m not trying to put numbers in your – for you to achieve but if it happened to be 75% of your mix you’d be fine with that as long as it’s profitable? Well yes I mean we’d like to – we add more value on the specialty side of products.
However part of the reason we’re at 61% is because we’ve shrunk some of our structural businesses more than we had planned.
So we expect to grow our specialty or our structural business on the value-added product side.
And that’s really what we did successfully in the third quarter we’re able to sell some structural products that gave us the opportunity to make acceptable margins.
And I fully expect to continue to do that in the future and that’s why I’m reluctant to say that it’s 75% of something.
Because listen there is good value products that we classify on our structural product side that our customers need to buy and that we can successfully buy and sell and make acceptable margins and we need to get some of that business back.
Sure can you elaborate on why you enjoyed a late quarter surge for specialty products? Well it accelerated really through the year.
So it’s been continued growth it did grow – the end of the quarter was better housing starts came out a little stronger than most people forecast.
658 000 was above where we thought they’d be and we are seeing some follow through on that business.
So it’s just – it’s again the continued rebound of the housing industry and the share growth that we’ve been successful of obtaining in the last few years.
Okay and can you name names of who is going to be supplying the new private label engineered lumber? Not yet? We’ve got most of it worked out but we’re – we’ll have a more detailed announcement forthcoming.
Okay.
So the reason you’re classifying it as specialty is because it’s not plain old commodity so is it LVL or I-beams what kind of products are they? Yeah it’s LVL and I-beams and glue lams and we’ve always classified it as specialty.
It’s been that way since our inception.
So there is no change there.
We haven’t moved any – since our inception we haven’t moved any classification of revenue from structural to specialty or vice versa and that’s not what this is either.
We’ve always classified engineered lumber as a value-added specialty product.
Okay.
And a quick one for Doug if I could.
The diluted weighted-average shares at quarter-end is that the number we should use going forward because I assume that the average number of shares in the quarter was somewhat different? If the transaction had closed at the beginning of the quarter Steve it would have been 59.3 million shares versus 51.2 million.
59.3 million? Yes.
Okay so that’s what we use going forward.
Yes.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
That’s good.
Thank you.
Thank you Steve.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Judd are there any closing comments? Yeah thank you.
In closing I’d like again thank our stockholders for their continued support and thank our employees for working safely and effectively in a very very difficult market.
Thank you for attending and we’ll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you for participating in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is David and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today February 15th 2012.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis.
Ma’am you may begin your conference.
Thank you David and welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s fourth quarter 2011 conference call.
Our speakers this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the Company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Doug Goforth.
Thank you Maryon.
I will start with the discussion of fourth quarter and full year financial results then George will provide some additional commentary and closed with the final perspective.
BlueLinx’s financial performance for the fourth quarter of 2011 improved compared to a year ago as we continue to make strides growing our Specialty Products business.
Although the housing market and overall economy remained very challenging we did experience small improvements in business demand in certain markets during the quarter.
For the fourth quarter actual US single family housing starts were up 2.4% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 the first rise in single family starts this year.
Actual total U.S.
housing starts increased 22.6% for the fourth quarter 2011 compared to the same period last year.
Against this backdrop we worked hard to achieve our objectives continuing to cultivate new customers and strengthen supplier relationships.
We focused on profitable long-term relationships and profitable transactions.
And as we have said before we continue to use this environment to invest in people processes and program improvement that will help ensure our success as we move forward in 2012 and beyond.
Last but certainly not least we continue to aggressively manage cost and working capital.
Today we reported a GAAP net loss of $10.3 million or $0.17 per deluded share on revenue of $391.1 million.
That compares to a GAAP net loss of $20.2 million or $0.66 per diluted share on revenue of $367.9 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Now let’s review the results in more detail.
For those of you following along with the slides posted on the investor relations section of the BlueLinx website I will begin with slide 5.
Overall sales for the fourth quarter in the December 31 totaled $391.1 million up 6.3% or approximately $23 million from the fourth quarter 2010.
Both Specialty and Structural product groups experienced increases in unit volumes and product selling prices for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the year ago period.
With BlueLinx’s end-use market is more closely tied to single family housing we believe the 6.3% increase in revenue for the quarter driven by our specialty products growth represents expanded market share.
Specialty sale increased 8.7% year over year reflecting a 6.6% increase in unit volume and a 2.1% increase in product selling prices.
Both warehouse and direct channel business experienced strong growth for the quarter.
Structural products sale increased 7% from the same period last year.
This increase was driven by 2.8% increase in volume and 4.2% year-over-year increase in product selling prices.
Specialty products comprised 59% of total sales consistent with the third quarter of 2010.
Overall our unit volume rose 5% compared to the year ago period.
BlueLinx’s generated approximately $48 million in gross profit for the quarter which is $3.6 million increase over the same period last year.
Overall gross margin was 12.3% for the quarter up from 12.1% in the same period last year and reflects our ongoing initiative to increase margins across all product categories combined with increases in underlying product prices.
Structural margins of 9.3% were down slightly compared to the prior year quarter with margins were 9.5%.
We benefitted some less from the selling prices for key grades of wood-based structural products during the quarter.
Average fourth quarter 2011 benchmark wood-based structural prices were up approximately 1.5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Specialty gross margins for the quarter 14.9% compared with 14.7% a year ago a result of strong unit volume and a mix of higher product selling prices.
Specialty gross profit increased $3.2 million or approximately 10.10% and represented 89% of the gross profit increase in the quarter.
We believe our gross margin performance is one of the key indications that BlueLinx is operating effectively in a difficult environment.
Fourth quarter operating expenses of $50.5 million were down $6 million compared to $56.5 million a year ago and included special items of $3.9 million in real estate related gains and $0.7 million in severance costs respectively.
We have been managing our cost tightly and we will continue to do so.
The company reported an operating loss for the fourth quarter of $2.6 million compared to an operating loss of $12.2 million in the prior year period reflecting $3.6 million increase in gross profit and $6 million decrease in total operating expenses.
EBITDA improved $9.1 million over the prior year period and reflects the increased gross profit the net gains from significant special items recorded during the quarter and our ongoing commitment to cost management and operational efficiency.
Our fourth quarter net loss was $10.3 million or $0.17 per diluted share compares with a net loss of $20.2 million or $0.66 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expenses of $6.8 compared to interest expense of $7.8 million in the prior year period which included $1.4 million in pretax non-cash interest income associated with our interest rate swap.
The current year net loss is after a tax provision of $0.8 million compared to a tax provision of $0.1 million in the prior year period.
Looking at full year results on slide 6.
Sales for the year ended December 31st totaled $1.76 billion down 2.7% from the same period last year.
Gross margin of 12% increased from 11.7% in the year ago period.
Full year reported operating expenses which included $12.6 million in net gains from significant special items decreased 6.9% from the same period last year which included $1.1 million in net gains from significant special items.
The resulting operating loss of $8.3 million was largely driven by the continued low level of housing related demand.
The operating loss improved $15.6 million compared to the year ago period.
EBITDA increased $12.9 million over the prior year period due to a decrease in gross profit offset by net gains on significant special items.
The full year reported net loss of $38.6 million or $0.89 million per share compares with a net loss of $53.2 million or $1.73 a year ago.
Turning to cash flow on slide 7.
During the quarter receivables decreased by $45.9 million in accordance with the normal seasonal slowdown and inventories decreased $18.2 million.
These decreases were partially offset by a $20.7 million decrease in accounts payable.
Fourth quarter net cash provided by operations was $33.9 million.
This compares with net cash provided by operations of $18 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Cash provided by investing activities was $8.2 million and included $9.4 million in proceeds from the sale of certain surplus real estate and $1.2 million from the investment in property plant and equipment.
Cash used in financing activities was $43.1 million for the quarter driven by $24 million reduction in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility and $8 million decrease in bank overdraft and $3.7 million principal repayment on the mortgage $7.1 million increase in restricted cash related to the mortgage and $0.3 million usage from other items.
The resulting cash balance at December 31st was $4.9 million compared with $14.3 million a year ago.
Moving to slide 8.
We had approximately $118 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facilities as of quarter end.
While this is up from $103 million at the end of 2010 this number will likely tighten throughout the year similar to the pattern we experienced in 2011.
But we believe the amounts available from our revolving credit facilities and other sources will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements for the next twelve months.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $337.7 million a decrease of $27.7 million from the third quarter 2011.
Net debt at the end of the fourth quarter was approximately $323 million compared to approximately $357 million at October 1 and was down approximately $15 million from  a year ago.
Turning to slide nine cash cycle days for the fourth quarter totalled 56.
That compares with 58 days for the third quarter 2011 and 52 days compared to the same period a year ago.
We continue to balance inventory levels with the demand environment while also continuing to support strategic products and vendors as part of our ongoing focus on specialty product growth.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Now let me turn the call over to George.
Thank you Doug and good morning.
Keeping our focus on specialty products today I am pleased to tell you about two exciting developments in our specialty business.
Last quarter we announced our plan to launch a complete line of privately branded engineered products.
Today I am pleased to report that this week we’d launched our engineered product line branded onCENTER.
The onCENTER branded engineered products were made available to dealer and lumber customers across the country on February 13.
All onCENTER BLI Joists and LVL are backed by limited life time warranty and supported by our full service cross functional team of engineers technicians software developers inside sales and field based market managers.
We are excited to introduce the onCENTER brand to the market and to present our customers with a superior engineered product solution.
Secondly subsequent to the quarter end we entered into a new distribution agreement with a Weyerhaeuser to become the independent distributor of Weyerhaeuser's engineered wood products in the New England area effective February 13 2012.
BlueLinx won this distribution agreement after rigorous process in which we emerged as the best fit for the New England market based on our operational capabilities alignment with Weyerhaeuser local strategies and our strong reputation and relationship with the same New England customer base.
We are excited about the opportunity to work in New England with a great partner like Weyerhaeuser.
They have a long standing presence in the forest products industry and distribution is an important part of their success.
As we moved to the selection process it became clear that we share a lot in common including a deep commitment to New England and taking care of our customers which makes Weyerhaeuser and BlueLinx a great fit.
The agreement applies to the New England market and does not impact BlueLinx's strategy or approach in other markets.
The New England market is defined as Connecticut Rhode Island Massachusetts Maine New Hampshire Vermont and upstate New York.
As a distributor of building products in many regions across North America BlueLinx currently operates four facilities in the New England market with distribution centers in Bellingham Massachusetts; Portland Maine; Burlington Vermont and Buffalo New York.
Our new onCENTER branded engineered products line and new distribution agreement with Weyerhaeuser are examples with specific strategies that will leverage our powerful sales and distribution assets.
Before turning the call over to operator let me make a few closing remarks.
Home builders ended 2011 with the third straight year of weak activity and the worst on record for single family home construction despite modest improvement at the end of the year.
For the entire year builders started just 606 000 homes up 3.4% over the 2010 figure that was roughly half of $1.2 million that economists equate with the healthy housing markets.
Builders started just 428 000 single family homes all year the fewest on record being back more than half a century.
So challenges continue for industry and for BlueLinx.
Nevertheless we are encouraged by the modest improvement in housing starts late in the year and believe it indicates a real housing recovery is getting started.
Most third party housing forecasters for 2012 show moderate growth with housing start forecast with ranging from 630 000 to 730 000 starts.
We remain focused on returning BlueLinx to profitability.
We continue to believe that our operating initiatives carried out by our skilled dedicated workforce will create increasing levels of growth.
In summary for the fourth quarter we grew sales compared to the year ago quarter driven by our focus on specialty products.
We maintain a historical high gross margin rate and generated increased gross profit.
We controlled cost and working capital by providing our customers and vendors with high-quality products and services they expect from BlueLinx.
We generated approximately $16 million more in operating cash flows when compared to a year ago period.
For the full year we delivered a positive EBITDA and narrowed our net loss compared to the year ago period.
As we move into 2012 we look forward to aggressively confronting the challenge and maximizing the potential opportunities to again deliver improved financial results and positive returns for our shareholders.
On behalf of all of leadership team of BlueLinx I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and ongoing commitment and dedication to BlueLinx.
We navigated through a challenging year.
Our annual housing starts were once again weaker than expected.
Nevertheless I am pleased; we were able to narrow our operating loss for the year by approximately $16 million.
A lot of work remains in order for us to return to profitability but I am confident that we are up to the task.
With that we will open the call to questions.
Operator will you please instruct everyone in how to ask a question.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Alan Weber with Robotti &amp; Company.
First question is you made a comment about -- I forgot the exact quote but something in the press release that there is still -- you still have a lot of work to do to return to profitability.
When you kind of say that can you kind of talk about how you think it’s really in terms of end markets are somewhat out of your control but internally I guess kind of what are some of the major -- is there anything different that you expect to do in 2012 kind of or it’s a just a continuation of what you’ve been doing to get towards profitability? Yeah really what we’re referring to is that as soon as this long wait begins and much steeper housing contraction then we certainly expected and that everybody that I ever talked to had expected that five years ago.
We talked about housing the bubble bursting.
We’ve made a lot of adjustments to BlueLinx that we did not expect.
And we did present again in 2011 where we consolidated some markets well we closed our Sacramento California facility and sold the property and serviced those customers from our Fremont facility and we’ve retained the large percentage of the business.
So we’re constantly looking at models on how we can serve our customers in a more effective and cost efficient way.
And secondly on product line expansion.
We expanded our metal product line significantly in the end of 2009 and we grew that business.
So now it’s a major part of our revenue and gross profit dollars.
So in 2011 we have a few things in the pipeline for 2012.
We haven’t announced them.
We’re working on them.
That we’re hoping will also provide that type of revenue and gross profit growth.
And thirdly the thing we did announce in the first quarter with -- within engineered lumber.
In the last three years our engineered lumber margins has declined and so we worked for 18 months frankly to come up with a new plan and new options on how we could take a business that was underperforming and return it to the top tiers of product performance which started about five years ago.
We’re excited about what we’re now.
So those types of things we’re constantly adjusting and working.
We agree we can’t control how many houses get build we’re excited what we feel in the markets right now.
In the first quarter we saw some activity and that seems to be continuing.
And we had a large team down at the International Builder Show last week in Orlando and activity was better and large builders that we met with and customers that we met with down there were much more optimistic about 2012.
So we’re excited about that.
We can control it.
But we constantly have to be making adjustments to make sure that we capitalize on it.
And I guess as a follow-up question just kind of the announcements that you made this week regarding the Weyerhaeuser engineered products.
Any idea what that means in terms of volume or revenue? Yes we did adjust not anything we’re prepared to disclose.
Right I guess I’m right I guess really okay.
I just wasn’t sure okay.
That’s fine.
And I guess my last question is kind of a general question when you think it through for arbitrarily I’m not really asking for projections but if revenues were up say 10% next year is I mean is the idea that you expect to overgrow this profit margin to improve while SG&amp;A is relatively flat or SG&amp;A start to go up in absolute dollars if you start to get some increase in revenue? Well we certainly work real hard and are pushing our organization to manage expenses as business returns and as volumes start to grow.
But we will have to grow we’ll have to add some more drivers and we’ll have to add some more material handlers to fixed cost that go with our -- in our bucket.
But we’re going to manage aggressively our corporate overhead and our sales expansion.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for your questions thanks.
There are no further questions.
Mr.
Judd do you have any closing remarks? Yes thanks everybody for joining us today for our call and I look forward to speaking with everybody again next quarter.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Rachel and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s first quarter earnings release conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today Thursday May 3 2012.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Rachel and welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s first quarter 2012 conference call.
Our speakers this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Doug will start today's presentation with a review of the quarterly results.
Then George will provide an operations review of the quarter and add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Doug Goforth.
Thanks Maryon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we reported a GAAP net loss of $11 million or $0.18 per diluted share on revenue of $453.7 million.
That compares to GAAP net loss of $12.3 million or $0.40 per diluted share on revenue of $390.6 million in the first quarter of last year.
As a reminder we successfully completed a $60 million rights offerings which resulted in the issuance of approximately 28.6 million additional shares in the third quarter of 2011.
Total diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding at the end of the first quarter of 2012 was $60 million compare to $30.8 million diluted weighted average common shares in the year-ago period.
During the quarter we used approximately $89 million in cash for operations as first quarter working capital requirement increased $77 million consistent with our cyclical business and the improving sales environment.
We had approximately $122 million in excess availability at the end of the quarter with a cash balance of $5.9 million.
Our net debt was approximately $401 million up approximately $18 million from a year ago.
Now for a closer look at the quarterly financial results.
For those of you following along the slides posted on the Investor Relation section to the BlueLinx website I will begin with slide 5.
Overall sales for the first quarter ended March 31 totaled $453.7 million up 16.2% or $63.1 million from the first quarter of 2011.
Specialty sales remained strong accounting for just under 60% of total revenue.
The increase in total revenue is attributable to increased unit volumes and increased underlying product prices for both product categories.
Overall unit volume rose 11.2% compared to the same period a year ago and specialty unit volume increased 12.4% and structural unit volume increased 9.4% during the quarter.
Moving to slide 6 BlueLinx generated approximately $54 million in gross profit for the quarter up 17.2% from approximately $46 million in the year-ago period.
Overall gross margins was 12% for the quarter up from last year’s 11.8% due to the continued focus on margin expansions rising product prices for many other products we distribute including key grades of wood based products roofing insulation and other specialty products and growth in our other warehouse business.
Total operating expenses increased to $58.3 million from $51.4 million a year ago and included $0.6 million and $7.2 million in real estate gains respectively.
Excluding real estate gains operating expenses were consistent with the same period a year ago even though sales through the warehouse channel accounted for 100% of the overall revenue increase.
Keeping our expenses flat in the quarter reflects our ongoing focus on managing expenses as evidenced by our ability to offset a $1.1 million increase in our logistics cost including (inaudible) field.
The company reported an operating loss for the first quarter of 4.1 million compared to an operating loss of $5.1 million in the prior year period reflecting an 8 million increase in gross profit and a 7 million increase in operating expense.
EBITDA loss of $1.8 million improved slightly from a $2.2 million loss in the first quarter of 2011and reflects our ongoing commitment to cost management in operational efficiency.
Our first quarter net loss of an 11 million or $0.18 per diluted share compares with a less loss of 12.3 million or $0.40 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expense is 6.8 compared to interest expense of 7.3 million in the prior year period which included 1.8 million in pretax non-cash interest income associated with the interest rate swaps.
The current year net loss is after a tax provision of approximately 200 000 compared to a tax benefit of approximately 100 000 in the prior year period.
Turning to cash flow on slide seven during the quarter we used approximately 89 million in cash from operating activities primarily reflecting increased receivables of $59 million in the quarter since rise in sales and seasonal increases in inventory to 65 million which were partially offset by corresponding increase in accounts payable of $47 million.
You can pay us net cash used by operations and approximately 63 million in the first quarter of 2011.
As we discussed on prior earnings calls we will continue to tightly manage our working capital items on an ongoing basis but as always we expect to consume cash through the first half of the year as our working capital increases to support an improving business.
Cash provided by financing activities was $89.3 million for the quarter driven by an $83.2 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility and $12.6 million increase in bank overdrafts and a $2.7 million decrease in restricted cash related to the mortgage partially offset by $7.1 million principal repayment on the mortgage and a $2.1 million usage from other items.
As a reminder during the fiscal 2011 we sold certain properties which reduced our mortgage by $6.5 million.
These payments were applied to the mortgage loan in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
The resulting cash balance at March 31 was $5.9 million compared to $6.2 million a year ago.
Moving to slide eight we had approximately $122 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facility as of quarter end.
While this is up from the end of 2011 this number will likely decrease while our industry and our company recover from this historic downturn.
But we believe that amounts available from our revolving credit facilities and other sources will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements for the next 12 months.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $413.8 million an increase to $76.1 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net debt at the end of the first quarter was approximately $401 million compared to approximately $323 million at December 31 and up approximately $18 million from a year ago.
Turning to slide nine cash cycle days for the first quarter totaled 57.
That compares with 56 days for the fourth quarter of 2011 and 55 days for the same period a year ago.
Our performance in this area reflects our daily efforts to manage our working capital risks by billing to the most profitable customers keeping the right inventory on hand and paying our suppliers in a timely fashion.
In summary we grew revenue and expanded our margins in this continued challenging environment.
We aggressively manage cost we invested in inventory for both anticipated seasonal demand and to support our ongoing specialty product focus.
As we move forward over the next 12 months.
We believe we have the financial resources to remain on our strategic course as the residential housing market continues to recover.
Now let me turn the call over to George.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning.
BlueLinx’s first quarter results improved compared to a year ago and exceeded our overall expectations as the construction markets continue to recover.
Billing activity increased in all markets as the overall economy improved.
New housing inventory spell and we experienced a milder winter in many markets.
I outlined on previous calls our plan to increase BlueLinx’s share with recovery market by executing targeted growth initiatives that focus on to specific markets specific customers and value added products.
I have talked about our plan to grow these products while maintaining our price discipline maintaining or growing our gross margin percentage and continuing our disciplined cost controls while providing our customers with premium service.
In the first quarter 2012 we executed against this plan.
We grew our specialty value added products and our structural products business.
We increased our margins and we kept expenses flat.
Keeping expenses flat while shipping over 20% more products out of warehouse and a rising fuel environment is something we've worked very hard to achieve.
Over the past three quarters we have seen improvement in our markets across the country.
The activity in some markets has improved more than others but business conditions have shown gradual improvement in all markets.
Although we do not give guidance I will say that improving trend in market activity has continued into April.
BlueLinx will continue to execute on our plan as markets improve.
We have invested in inventory and our team is focused on providing great service to our customers.
During the quarter we grow revenues 16.2% compared to last year’s first quarter.
The value added product lines targeted markets and targeted customers led this growth.
These strategic products grew by approximately 24% during the quarter compared to a year ago.
Continued growth of these products at or above historical margins combined with our cost control strategies will return BlueLinx to profitability.
We continue to work with our vendor partners around the world to grow existing product sales and add new products to our product portfolio.
We remain focus on expanding our product portfolio as our markets recover.
During the first quarter our margins increased to 12% from 11.8% year ago.
Our specialty gross margin which accounted for 62% of our gross margin dollars increased to 12.6% from 12.2% a year ago.
Structure product gross margins fell to 9.9% from 10.4% year ago.
We’re working hard and we’ll continue to work hard to improve our gross margin performance.
We did a nice job managing expenses during the quarter.
We’re focused on our logistic expenses.
We grew our warehouse sales faster than our reload or direct business.
The combination of more volume and improved performance drove logistics cost and percentage of sales down even as fuel expenses increased.
We will remain focused on all costs.
We narrowed our first quarter net loss to $11 million from $12.3 million in the year ago period.
After adjusting for significant special items our comparable adjusted pretax loss for the first quarter was $11.4 million or 47% or $10 million improvement over the same period a year ago.
In conclusion this is improving but it’s still significantly below where I would consider normal or healthy market.
BlueLinx has made improvements to perform in these markets and in healthy market.
The combination of successful execution of our strategy and a continued recovering of the housing and construction markets will return BlueLinx to profitability.
With that I will open the call to questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) And we do have a question from Alan Weber from Robotti &amp; Company   Just a question on your SG&amp;A; your operating expenses; just curious when you take away to gain last year from the real estate as you said the operating expenses was relatively flat compared to a year ago on and this quarter higher volume.
I guess the question is how long can you keep operating expense at these levels?  Well we got synergies as we grew the business across our fixed cost platform and then our semi-fixed and other.
The actual trucks going out of our warehouses everyday had some capacity on and during the first quarter we did a very very nice job of making sure that our trucks were full.
We are a real little less but we have taken most of it and you know as the second quarter progresses I would expect that that improvement will soon maximize.
But as far as our SG&amp;A our selling expense our headquarters expense and all of our fixed expenses as we have got tight controls on and we expect to keep them where they are.
And I guess more of a general questions is; is there something with you in the markets where you operate do you see extensive changes from competitiveness in the competition? Well there has been constant changes to this correction where competitors changed footprints left markets got a product lines and then we’ve had some competitors that have added product lines and added some markets.
It’s constantly changing; it has been a tough long market; housing correction.
But overall my view would be that folks that were really good business operators and at the peak of the market are continuing to be good operators and as soon as the trough and now as recovery comes.
The folks that weren’t some of them are gone and many of them are much smaller.
Thank you.
At this time there are no additional questions.
I would now like to turn it back to Mr.
Doug for any closing comments.
Okay thank you.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
We will talk to you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s second quarter earnings release conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today Thursday August 2 2012.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx’s.
Ms.
Davis you may begin your conference.
Thank you welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s second quarter 2012 conference call.
Our speakers this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Doug will begin today's presentations with a review of the quarterly results.
Then George will provide an operations review of the quarter and add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future result is provided in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Doug Goforth.
Thanks Maryon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I will start our review in our some the highlights for the quarter followed by a more in-depth review of the financial statements.
Today we reported a GAAP net loss of $3.7 million or $0.06 per diluted share on revenue of $517 million.
That compares to a GAAP net loss of $9.8 million or $0.31 per diluted share on revenue of $500.8 million in the second quarter of last year.
As a reminder we successfully completed a $60 million rights offerings which resulted in the issuance of approximately 28.6 million additional shares in the third quarter of 2011.
Total diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding at the end of the second quarter of 2012 was $60.1 million compared to $31.1 million diluted weighted average common shares in the year-ago period.
During the quarter we used approximately $22 million in cash for operations as second quarter working capital requirements increased approximately $31 million consistent with our cyclical business and the improving sales environment.
We had approximately $105 million in excess availability at the end of the quarter with a cash balance of $5.2 million.
Our net debt was $427 million down approximately $3 million from a year ago.
Now for a closer look at the quarterly financial results.
For those of you following along with the slides posted on the Investor Relation section of the BlueLinx website I will begin with slide 5.
Overall sales for the second quarter ended June 30 totaled $517 million up 3.2% or $16.2 million from the second quarter of 2011.
The increase reflects a 0.7% decrease in specialty product sales and a 12% increase in structural product sales from the year-ago period.
Second quarter sales mix was impacted by increased structural product pricing compared to the year-ago period the structural sales accounting for 41% and specialty sales accounting for 59% of total revenue during the quarter.
The increase in total revenue is attributable to increased underlying product prices primarily in the structural product category.
Overall unit volume fell 1.3% compared to the same period a year ago and specialty unit volume decreased 2.3% and structural unit volume increased slightly during the quarter.
New residential construction indicators continue to trend positively for the quarter.
Actual total U.S.
housing stocks increased 28.9% for the second quarter 2012 compared to the same period last year with single family stocks which represent our largest share up 23.3%.
BlueLinx generated approximately 63 million in gross profit for the quarter up 9.6% from approximately 58 million in the year-ago periods.
Overall gross margin was 12.2% for the quarter up from last year’s 11.5% due to our continued focus on margin expansions rising product prices for many other products we distribute including key grades of wood based products and growth in our other warehouse business.
Total operating expenses of $59.3 million for the second quarter were flat compared to the same period a year ago and included $0.5 million gains from property insurance settlement received in 2012.
Excluding the insurance gain operating expense increased approximately $0.4 million compared to the same period a year ago even though unit volume through the warehouse channel increased 8.4% and accounted for 100% of the overall revenue increase.
Our performance in this area demonstrates our ability to manage operating expenses as our business grows.
The company reported operating income for the second quarter of $3.9 million compared to an operating loss of $1.8 million in the prior year period reflecting a $5.5 million increase in gross profit.
EBITDA profit of $6 million improved from $0.7 million profit in the second quarter of 2011 and reflects our ongoing commitment to margin expansion cost management and operational efficiency.
Our second quarter net loss of $3.7 million or $0.06 per diluted share compares with a net loss of $9.8 million or $0.31 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expense of $7.3 million compared to interest expense of $7.7 million in the prior year period.
The current year net loss is after a tax provision of approximately 200 000 compared to a similar tax provision in the prior year period.
Looking at year-to-date results from slide 6 sales for the six months ending June 30 totaled $970.7 million up 8.9% from the same period last year.
Gross margin of 12.1% increased from 11.7% in the year-ago period.
Year-to date reported operating expenses of approximately $118 million increased approximately $7 million from $111 million a year ago and included approximately $1 million in real estate in insurance settlement gains in 2012 and approximately $7 million in real estate gains in 2011.
The resulting operating loss of $0.2 million was largely driven by the improving but still historically low levels of housing demand.
EBITDA increased $5.7 million over the prior year period due to the increase in gross profit partially offset by real estate gains and operating expense increases.
Including the impact of real estate gains in 2012 and 2011.
EBITDA improved by $11.9 million.
Year-to-date reported net loss of $14.7 million or $0.25 a share compares with a net loss of $22.1 million or $0.71 a year ago.
Turning to cash flow on slide 7 during the quarter we used approximately $22 million in cash from operating activities primarily reflecting seasonal increases and accounts receivable of 4.2 million inventory brief decreases to $14.9 million and net decreases and accounts payable and other items of $33 million.
This compares with net cash use by operations of approximately $38 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Cash provided by financing activities was approximately $21 million for the quarter driven by a $29.1 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
A $4.3 million decrease in bank overdrafts and a $2.7 million increase in restricted cash related to the mortgage up $6 million principal repayment of the mortgage and $0.2 million usage from other items.
The resulting cash balance of June 30 was $5.2 million compared with a $6.1 million a year ago.
For the first half of 2012 we used approximately $110 million of cash for operating activities compared to approximately $101 million in cash during the year ago period primarily reflecting growth in our working capital investment.
Cash provided by financing activities during the first half of 2012 was $110.6 million driven by $112.3 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving debt facility a $7.7 million mortgage principle repayment and $8.3 increase in bank overdrafts.
This compares to approximately $89 million in cash provided by financing activities driven by a $91.7 million increase in borrowings a $5.7 million increase in bank overdrafts and a $7.8 million increase in restricted cash related to the mortgage for the similar year ago period.
Moving to slide eight excess availability increased approximately $11 million ending the quarter of approximately $105 million compared to $94 million a year ago.
This is approximately $60 million above our minimum availability requirements as of June 30.
Consistent with prior years excess availability will likely tighten through the year end while our industry and our company continue to recover from this historic downturn.
But we believe that the amounts available from our revolving credit facilities and other sources will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements for the next 12 months.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $442.2 million an increase of $28.4 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Net debt at the end of the second quarter was $427 million compared to approximately $401 million at March 31 and was down approximately 3 million from a year ago.
Turning to slide nine cash cycle days for the second quarter totaled 59.
That compares with 57 days for the first quarter of 2011 and 58 days for the same period a year ago.
Our performance in this area reflects our ability to manage our working capital risk by selling to the most profitable customers keeping the right product on hand and paying our suppliers in a timely manner.
Let me wrap up our financial review by highlighting that.
We narrowed our net loss for the quarter to $3.7 million by executing on our strategy to profitably grow our business as the residential construction market continues to gradually recover.
This represents our best quarterly performance in two years.
We remain focused on gross margin evidence by our ability to increase margins to 12.2% from 11.5% for the year ago period well above historical levels.
We managed cost very well as volumes increased to the warehouse channel holding flat to prior year levels.
We generated an EBITDA profit of 6 million for the quarter up $5.3 million from the year ago period.
And finally we ended the quarter with approximately $105 million in excess liquidity under our revolving credit facilities.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call over to George.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning.
BlueLinx’s second quarter results improved compared to a year ago and as the construction markets continue to recover and as we execute our plans return BlueLinx to profitability.
I outlined on previous calls our plan to increase BlueLinx’s share with recovery market by executing targeted growth initiatives that focus on to specific markets specific customers and value added products.
I have talked about our plan to grow these products while maintaining our price discipline maintaining or growing our gross margin percentage and continuing our disciplined cost controls while optimizing our investment and working capital and providing our customers with premium service.
In the second quarter 2012 as we executed our strategy of controlled profitable growth we selectively managed topline revenue growth for profitability.
We aggressively pursued targeted business opportunities that met our profitability goals during the quarter resulting in year-over-year growth in structural and specialty value added products.
We are disciplined with our revenue growth as we manage margins inventories and credit risk in a recovering but still fragile housing market.
We delivered strong margins in both product categories while keeping operating expenses flat compared to a year ago.
As discussed on previous earnings calls in general we expect our structural business to strengthen earlier in the housing market recovery.
Our customers rely on BlueLinx to support their inventory as the structural business expands.
Our job is to manage this growth with a disciplined margin and inventory plan.
We did a good job at this point of quarter.
Structural sales grew by 12% and represented 41% of the total revenue.
Structural gross margin was 9.5% for the quarter up from 8.1% a year ago.
The revenue growth and margin improvement was driven by year-over-year firming trend and average benchmark wood based structural product prices which increased to approximately 27% compared to the second quarter of 2011 and a slight increase in unit volume.
Certain strategic specialty products also grew during the quarter as we continued our focus on the value added products within the specialty product category.
We face difficult year-over-year comparisons in our specialty business (inaudible) related demand experienced in the year ago quarter.
In addition it is now apparent that the mild winter accelerated sales into the first quarter of 2012.
Our strategy is to pursue revenue growth while expanding gross margin percentage.
The quarter began with a strong sales pace but slowed in May and early June and then started to rebound in the last two weeks of the quarter.
Our customers controlled purchases as many product prices appeared to be near the top of the cycle as both our customers and BlueLinx managed to expose this price risk.
Our direct channel business slowed considerably during the quarter which had a particular impact on our structural business as our customers reduced order quantities and reduced larger direct purchases to manage risks as the market settles.
I am pleased with the strong margin performance in the quarter and with the successful execution of our margin expansion strategy.
We remained focused on achieving gross margins above historical levels through our ongoing management of product pricing and sales discipline.
Our second quarter gross margin percentage increased both across both product categories.
I would have liked to have seen higher sales increases at our improved margin rate and we will work to deliver that improvement in the coming quarters.
We continue to do a good job managing our expenses during the quarter as we have throughout this housing downturn.
Even though we shipped more products through the warehouse channel logistics expenses were flat for the quarter compared to the same period last year and we continue to drive productivity improvements to our focus on delivery expense while continuing to maintain our focus on all costs.
We generated $3.9 million on operating profit during the quarter compared to an operating loss of 1.8 million a year ago.
This is the first operating profit since the second quarter of 2010.
Our strategy of controlled growth and expenses with improved margin will continue to produce improved earnings for BlueLinx.
I spent time over the last 3 months travelling with some of our outside field representative as I often do talking and meeting with our customers and gaining an understanding of the local business conditions.
Business is improving in almost all markets for our customers and for BlueLinx.
There is renewed optimism many of our markets is housing and residential construction leading indicators continue to trend positively.
While we are still significantly below what I consider a healthy or normal market we believe the combination of success execution of our strategy and the continued recovery of the housing instruction in construction markets.
We will return BlueLinx profitability.
I remain cautiously optimistic that the housing recovery is real and will continue to accelerate.
With that I will open the call to questions operator.
(Operator Instructions) There are no questions from the phone line.
Okay we thank you all for joining us this quarter and look forward to talking to you next week.
This concludes today’s conference you may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx's third quarter earnings release conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis Director of Investor Relations with BlueLinx's.
Thank you and welcome everyone to the BlueLinx's third quarter 2012 conference call.
Our speakers this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today's call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company's forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future result is provided in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I'd like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
We will begin the call this morning with opening remarks from George; then Doug will present an in-depth review of the financial statements.
Next George will provide an operations review of the quarter and add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer George Judd.
Thank you Maryon.
And good morning ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining us this morning.
Everyone at BlueLinx extends their deepest sympathy and concern for those impacted by the storm earlier this week.
Thankfully our BlueLinx employees are safe and our facilities are all operational and sustained only limited damage.
Doug and I have spent an increasing amount of time recently talking with a variety of people interested in learning a more about BlueLinx and the future opportunities of our company.
We're always excited by this interest and welcome new listeners to today's call.
To assist all of our investors and other interested parties we have posted our latest investor presentation on our website and we encourage you to review it more and more about our company our history our industry and our strategy and many opportunities that future holds for BlueLinx.
Before I turn the call over to Doug to review the financial result I'll briefly review our current business objectives.
Specifically we're pursuing special product growth with a continuing sense of urgency and commitment.
We are managing our structural business to grow overall profitability not for volume or not for market share.
Let me elaborate future on these BlueLinx strategic objectives.
We have consistently set our primary strategic objective remains to grow specialty building products revenue to more than 60% of our total sales.
Specialty products accounted for 58% of total sales in the third quarter and 55% of total gross margin.
Our growth objective for specialty is based on two-key facts.
The first is specialty building products steadily or less volatile and carry out margins in special products.
This translates the more stable earnings growth and higher profit margins.
The second is our focus on the specialty category.
This deeply differentiates BlueLinx and the supply chain by positioning us to create significant value for both the manufacturers of these products and our customers.
Now let's look at structural products part of the business.
Our structural products business is a vital part of BlueLinx and we continue to refine our systems and processes to manage this business for long-term profitability.
Our second objective is to continue to grow our structural products business and with emphasis on profitability and limited exposure to commodity price volatility.
We have focused on reducing our exposure to the volatility inherent in structural commodity prices to more effective inventory management increased program sales and the use of consignment inventories.
In summary our growth objectives and our strategy for reaching them are clear and consistent.
Our progress is steady and our commitment is great.
Now I'll turn the call over to Doug.
Thank you George.
Good morning.
Turning to the financial highlight as Maryon indicated earlier this morning we released our third quarter 2012 result.
For those who may not have seen our third quarter numbers yet let me offer a quick recap.
Revenues for the quarter were $496.8 million which was up $23.9 million or 5.1%.
Operating profit was $10.3 million and that represents a $9.1 million increase.
Net income was $3.1 million which was up $9.3 million.
And earnings per diluted share were $0.05 this quarter compared to a loss per diluted share of $0.12 in the third quarter of 2011.
I'm very pleased to say that represents our first quarterly profit since 2009.
BlueLinx generated approximately $23 million in cash from operations for the quarter which is a $6 million increase over the same period last year.
Finally we had approximately $112 million in access availability at the end of the quarter with a cash balance of $7.9 million.
Our net debt was approximately $387 million up approximately $30 million from a year ago.
Now for a closer look at the quarterly and year-to-date financial results.
For those of you following along with the slides posted on the Investor Relation sections from BlueLinx's website.
I'll begin with Slide 6.
Overall sale for the third quarter ended September 29 totaled $496.8 million up 5.1% or $23.9 million from the third quarter of 2011.
The increase reflects a 0.8% decrease in specialty product sales and a 13.3% increase in structural product sales from the year-ago period.
Third quarter sales mix was impacted by increased structural product pricing compared to the year-ago period with structural sales accounting for 42% and specialty sales accounting from 58% of total revenue during the quarter.
The increase in totaled revenue is attributable to increased underlying structural product prices.
Overall unit volume fell 1.9% compared to the same period a year ago as specialty unit volume decreased slightly and the structural unit volume decreased 3.3% during the quarter.
BlueLinx generated approximately $61 million in gross profit for the quarter up approximately $58 million in the year-ago period.
Overall our gross margin was 12.2% for the quarter consistent with last year's 12.3% due to our continued focus on margin expansion.
Third quarter operating expenses of $50.3 million were down compared to $57.1 million for the same period a year ago.
As previously announced during the quarter the company sold its distribution facility in Newark California and recorded a gain of $9.2 million or $0.09 per diluted share in operating expense.
This compares to $2.1 million or $0.02 per diluted share in net gains from significant special items in 2011.
Excluding significant special items operating expense increased approximately $300 000 compared to the same period a year ago even though unit volume through the warehouse distribution channel increased over 6%.
We're pleased with our performance in effectively controlling cost in 2012 and our management team remains focused in this area.
Tightly managing our expenses remains a top priority and we will continue to access the proper cost structure of our business as revenue growth continues.
The company reported operating income for the third quarter of $10.3 million compared to $1.2 million in the prior-year period reflecting a $2.3 million increase in gross profit and $6.8 million decrease in operating expenses.
EBITDA profit of $12.4 million improved from $3.4 million profit in the third quarter of 2011 and reflects our ongoing commitment to margin expansion cost management and operational efficiency including our ability to refine our geographical locations that makes business set.
Our third quarter net profit of $3.1 million or $0.05 per diluted share compares with a net loss of $6.2 million or $0.12 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
Our reported net income for the period is after interest expense of $7.3 million compared to interest expense of $7 million in the prior-year period.
The current year net profit is after-tax benefit of approximately $100 000 compared to a tax provision of approximately $100 000 in the prior-year period.
Looking at year-to-date results on Slide 7 sales for the nine months ending September 29 totaled $1.47 million up 7.6% from the same period last year.
Gross margin of 12.1% increased from 11.9% in the year-ago period.
Year-to date reported operating expenses of approximately $168 million were flat compared to a year ago and included approximately $10.2 million and $8.8 million in significant special items in 2012 and 2011 respectively.
The resulting operating profit of $10 million compares to an operating loss of $5.7 million for the same period a year ago.
The year-to-date reported net loss of $11.7 million or $0.19 a share compares with a net loss of $28.3 million or $0.75 a year ago.
Turning to Slide 8 EBITDA increased $14.7 million over the prior-year period due to an increase in gross profit and real estate gains partially offset by operating expense increases.
Excluding the impact of significant special items in 2012 and 2011 EBITDA improved by $13.3 million.
Turning to cash flow on Slide 9 during the quarter we generated approximately $23 million in cash from operating activities compared to approximately $17 million last year.
Our third quarter 2012 operating cash flow that's comprised of $3.1 million of net earnings $3 million in non-cash expenses and $35.7 million decrease in working capital offset by $9.3 million in other items and a $9.2 million gain with the sale of Newark California distribution centers.
The decrease in working capital primarily reflects seasonal decreases in accounts receivable of $10.4 million $15.4 million in inventory and $9.9 million net increases in accounts payable and other working capital items.
Investing activities included $400 000 for capital expenditures and $16.6 million in proceeds from the sale of our Newark California facility during the quarter.
Cash used by financing activities of $37 million included approximately $22 million use to reduce our revolving credit facility and approximately $15 million trapped as restricted cash related to the mortgage.
The resulting cash balance at September 29 was $7.9 million compared with $5.9 million a year ago.
For the nine months of 2012 we used approximately $87 million of cash for operating activities compared to approximately $84 million in cash during the year-ago period.
Our operating cash flow in 2012 includes a net loss of $11.7 million $9.4 million in non-cash expenses and $3.1 million in other items offset by a $71.9 million increase in working capital $9.7 million in gains from the sale of certain properties and $5.9 million from the modification of a lease agreement.
Working capital increased primarily due to higher sales volumes at current year versus December.
Cash provided by investing activities were $16.1 million for the nine month of 2012 driven by proceeds from the sale of certain properties.
Cash provided by financing activities was approximately $74 million driven by $19.7 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving debt facility $15.5 million increase in restricted cash related to the mortgage and $1.6 million usages from other items.
This compares to approximately $72 million of cash provided by financing activities a year ago.
As a reminder we completed the $60 million rights offerings during the third quarter of 2011.
On July 29 2011 we issued approximately 28.6 million shares and received $60 million in gross proceeds from the rights offerings.
$56 million of the proceeds from the rights offerings were used to immediately pay down the revolving credit facility.
In conjunction with the rights offerings we negotiated in an amendment to our mortgage agreement which impart allowed for the release of $38.3 million total funds of this collateral under the mortgage agreement saving $2.4 million a year in interest expense.
The released cash was used for an immediate prepayment on the mortgage loan which was out incurring a prepayment penalty.
Moving to Slide 10 we had approximately $112 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facilities as of quarter end.
That is approximately $69 million above our minimum availability requirements as of September 29.
Consistent with prior years excess availability likely will tighten through yearend while our industry and our company continue to grow.
But we believe that the amounts available from our revolving credit facilities and other sources will be sufficient to fund operations and capital requirements for the next 12 months.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $420.1 million an increase of $22.1 million from the second quarter of 2012.
Net debt at the end of the third quarter was approximately $387 million compared to $427 million at June 30.
As previously discussed during the third quarter of 2012 we sold our distribution center located in Newark California.
The cash received from the sale was reflected in the cash trap at September 29 2012.
Subsequent to quarter-end on October 1 2012 $12.8 million of cash from the sale and $11.8 million of cash accumulated in the cash trap was used to pay down the mortgage principal with no prepayment penalty.
Turning to Slide 11 cash cycle days for the third quarter totaled 59.
This compares with 59 days sequentially and 58 days for the same period a year ago.
That concludes my prepared remark.
Now let me turn the call back over to George.
Now let's review the third quarter results in the context of our objectives in current operating environment.
Third quarter business environment improved as the underlying market fundamentals and leading indicators continue to strengthen.
We operated in a business climate characterized by generally rising structural wood product prices and expectations of an improved housing market.
Structural wood based product prices rose during the first two months of the quarter up again two or three later in the quarter.
Actual total U.S.
housing starts increased approximately 28% for the third quarter 2012 compared to the same period last year.
Single-family starts increased 29% and represents' the housing end-used market to which BlueLinx is mostly closely tied to.
It appears that housing market is daily recovering with consistent increases in housing starts and sales coupled with good affordability conditions.
BlueLinx the local markets in which we operate experienced improvements to varying degrees and we managed our business accordingly.
We are very pleased to report net income from BlueLinx for the quarter.
Certain specialty product revenues fell slightly on lower product pricing and unit volumes.
Gross margin of 13.2% was down 10 basis points on both the year ago and from the second quarter.
While we're disappointed with the decline in revenue it raises an important point regarding our specialty products business.
This grouping of product is diverse.
It's made up of many end-used markets.
Large portions of these products grouping for example paneling and roofing products that are more closely tied to repair remodeling markets and other product such as Hardwood Plywood and Particleboard tied to our industrial business.
These businesses are recovering at a much lower pace than the new residential construction markets.
Other portions to this product grouping they are more closely tied to new construction like siding and trim engineered wood products and molding among others.
Consequently we're experiencing varying degrees of growth within our specialty business.
As we evolve and continue to evolve into our specialty products distribution company.
We're working to gain a deeper understanding of the end-used markets for our products assortment.
We're identifying opportunities in growing end-used markets that are heavily skewed in specialty products.
For example we have a team of highly motivated knowledgeable people working jointly with our customers to expand our penetration with the multi-family housing segment.
We believe this end-used market provides an attractive opportunity for BlueLinx and for our customers.
And we're aggressively and systematically pursuing these opportunities at the customers-focus solutions-driven value-added distributor.
Looking at our structural products we did a good job managing this business in the third quarter.
We effectively leverage the upswing in wood-based structural product prices.
We focused on profitability growth not on unit volume growth.
And as a result our gross margin improved 30 basis points from the same period a year ago and that was 40 basis points from the previous quarter.
I'm pleased with the margin performance in the quarter with a successful execution of our margin expansion strategy.
We remain focused on achieving gross margins about historical level with our ongoing management of product pricing and sales discipline.
We're confident with our margin run rates given our ability to generate gross margins above historical levels throughout this housing market downturn.
We are also continuing to do good job managing our expenses during the quarter.
Even though we ship more products through warehouse distribution channel the expenses were flat for the quarter compared to the same period last year as we continue to drive productivity improvements through our focus on delivery expense while continuing to maintain our focus on our cost and on our customer service.
As Doug mentioned in his remarks during the quarter we successfully sold our distribution center located in Newark California which was always larger than our needs.
We will close the sold facility and open a new distribution center in Northern California.
We are always evaluating our geographic footprint and will make appropriate adjustments while maintaining our National Distribution Platform.
Looking forward we have increased optimism and our business will show continued progress as good economic factors and leading indicators for our business point to improving market conditions and we'll continue to execute our strategy.
We've been seeing consistent improvement in housing.
And the latest government reports indicate the housing recovery blossomed in September as the pace of home starts surge to a full year high.
Reported numbers for both housing starts and permits to build homes were the best since 2008.
Low mortgage rates coupled with affordable housing prices a slight drop in unemployment has helped to restart home sales.
Foreclosures have fallen to five-year low and the supply of new homes on the market is near record lows according to government reports.
All these factors have helped get builders back building again.
Repair and remodel markets are also projected to accelerate according to the Leading Indicator of Remodeling Activity or LIRA.
Improving housing market and record low interest rates are driving strong gains and home improvement activity through the end of the year and into the first half of 2013 with an annual homeowner improvements spending expected to reach double-digit growth in the first half of 2013 according to LIRA.
Going forward we believe BlueLinx is well positioned to capitalized on these opportunities as permits and starts turn to actual new home construction in the coming months and home improvement activity increases.
Our organization our people our systems and our initiatives are all focused on aggressive pursuit of our goals.
With that let me open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Alan Weber of Robotti &amp; Company.
So I guess the question on the specialty products given most of your end markets were higher can you just explain why volumes were lower? When we blend all of those products together into this thing we call specialty products.
They were really dropped down during the quarter by one really big code or product grouping and that was roofing.
You probably have read many of the roofing product public companies numbers for the quarter were also very disappointing.
Our roofing business is a big business.
And it had substantial declines in volume.
That weighted the average down significantly.
And we'll say the year was front end loaded in roofing activity when it was compared against last year when we had a different type of storms than we just had this week.
Last year we had a lot of winds and tornados in roofing and hail damage that drove unprecedented roofing shingle growth.
So that and a couple of other codes that were such as paneling products which I mentioned in my prepared comments saw declines during the quarter.
And that's very much tied to our retail business.
And our retail business was flat during the quarter.
And also when you have codes with significant revenue that didn't grow or shrunk as far our weighted average on the other product codes that performed significantly above housing like siding and trim and our engineered lumber products had a good quarter.
Our molding products which were tied to housing had a good quarter.
And we call those strategic products.
Those are the products we're focusing our inventory dollars our sales team and trying to drive that growth as housing rebounds.
We are optimistic that as the economy continues to improve that our businesses and things like Particleboard and Hardboard that are more closely tied to where we classifies our industrial business speak about that as like furniture companies store fixtures.
And we do a big business with people who produce all the store fixture furniture for retail.
That business has been slow.
But it is starting to see some sign to life and we expect that to heat up as the economy heats up.
I just have two quick follow-up questions one was there was a slide presentation different than what you went through this morning I guess that presentation you made you talked about some private label products that have been introduced last year.
So can you talk about those? And the question was since you mentioned the storms that help grouping last year what is the result of the current storm on the east coast.
What does that mean for the company? Well let me get the storm one first.
So the storm it's too early for us to tell what that will mean.
And unfortunately for all of our friends and family and I grew up there and have a lot of friends and family and co-workers that are still trying to figure out what this storm means but there will be repair.
And repair will drive some demand.
I don't know what that's going to translate to.
But there will be increased demand and BlueLinx has a good market of share in those geographies.
So I'll expect an uptick in something.
But it won't happen fast.
One of the things that everybody has got to be careful for those types of repair remodels they unwind.
So there will be over a months and years.
That's not going to happen.
Everybody is not going to rebuild next quarter.
With regards to the private label and the other deck that we putting on our website we do have a growth plan that has one product code for example is SteelLinx which is our metal product family.
Those products are produced all over the world.
We'd like to take them to market in one-packaging one-marketing program.
So if you go on our website you'll see that we have a SteelLinx family of products that's fasteners that's concrete accessories and other metal type products we call that SteelLinx.
We kicked also a program that we did talked about last year about this time with regards to our on-center which on-center is engineered lumber products that we bring to market.
Doing a very nice job there and that's growing.
And we have line call ProLine.
And ProLine has some millwork products and some exterior trim products.
They are globally sourced products that we have manufactured to our specs.
We market we developed the brand and we bring a distributor across the United States.
And we're very happy with our growth that we see in that family of products as well.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
George for any closing comments.
Well thank you.
Thank you for listening in on the BlueLinx's third quarter call.
We look forward to talk to you next quarter.
And for those of you in the Northeast are unable to listen to us good luck.
And we look forward to helping you dig out from the storm.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today Wednesday February 13 2013.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
Ms.
Davis you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina.
And welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
Our speakers this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I’d like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
We will begin the call this morning with opening remarks and an operations review from George.
Then Doug will present an in-depth review of the financial statements.
Lastly George will add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer George Judd.
Thank you Maryon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before beginning our remarks regarding the fourth quarter 2012 results I’d like to comment on our press release issued January 10 2013 announcing a $40 million planned rights offering.
As the housing market and general economic conditions continue to improve the additional capital raised in the rights offering will allow BlueLinx to participate more fully in these improving conditions.
We have filed the registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission which contains a preliminary prospectus.
As the right offering process is ongoing we will not have any comments or take any questions regarding the offering.
We will take questions at the conclusion of this call regarding the results and strategies.
Thank you for your understanding and with that I’ll begin the review of our fourth quarter and full year results.
Those of you following along with the slides posted on the Investor Relation sections of the BlueLinx website.
I’ll begin with slide four.
The fourth quarter business environment improved as the underlying market fundamentals and leading indicators continue to strengthen increasing the credibility of the housing market recovery.
U.S.
builders started work on homes in December at the fastest pace in over four years and finished 2012 was their best year for residential construction since the early stages of the housing crisis.
According to the Commerce Department builders broke ground and homes in December at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 954 000 units that is 12.1% higher than November’s annual rate and nearly twice the recession low reached in early 2009.
Both single-family and multifamily starts increased in December and the pace of new home construction permits picked up to a four and half year high.
Total housing starts in the fourth quarter increased approximately 36% compared to the same period a year ago.
For the year the Commerce Department reported total housing starts of 780 000 units while this is roughly half the annual numbers starts consistent with a healthy market.
It is an increased 28% from 2011 and is the most since 2008.
This recovery is real but we have way to go before we are in a healthy or normal market.
What’s that mean for BlueLinx? Last quarter I talked about our end-used markets and our efforts to gain a deeper understanding of the end-used markets of our product assortment.
Recently as part of our presentation at the Barclays Industrial Distribution Forum we discussed our estimated participation in end-used market which is recapped on slide 23 in the Appendix of today’s conference call slides.
Consistent with our previous disclosures single-family starts represents the housing end-used market to which BlueLinx is most closely tied.
In December the pace of single-family home construction increased 8% and its now 75% higher than the recession low reached in March 2009.
Single-family actual housing starts ended the year up 24% from 2011.
For the full year 2012 our structural products group performed well executing our strategic goal to pursue revenue growth while expanding gross margin percentage.
We did the good job managing this business in 2012 and we effectively leverage the pricing volatility in wood-based structural products and focused on profitable growth not to -- not unit volume growth.
Our efforts in this area resulted in gross margin improvement of 30 basis points from the same period a year ago.
As discussed on previous earnings calls we expected our structural business to strengthen earlier in the housing market recovery.
In our Specialty business we experienced varying degrees of growth in 2012.
This grouping of product is diverse in its makeup and in its end-used markets.
Large portions of this product grouping paneling and roofing for example are more closely tied to the repair and remodeling markets.
Other products such as Hardwood Plywood and Particleboard are tied to our industrial business.
These businesses are recovering at a much slower pace than the new residential construction markets.
Specialty product growth remains our priority and as all markets recover we anticipate our growth will accelerate.
Continuing on slide four we are excited about BlueLinx excuse me we are excited about BlueLinx’s perspective in the recovering housing market as a continued favorable trend in housing fundamentals experienced through the fourth quarter.
For the quarter we grew revenue in both product groupings effectively applied our pricing disciplines and managed our operating costs of the current business environment.
Year-over-year revenues grew for the sixth consecutive quarter in the fourth quarter of 2012 as we executed our strategy of controlled profitable growth.
We aggressively pursued targeted business opportunities that met our profitability goals during the quarter resulting in year-over-year growth in the structural and specialty value added products.
We were disciplined with our revenue growth as we managed margins inventory and credit risk in the recovering housing market delivered strong margins in both product categories and effectively managed operating expenses as volume through the warehouse distribution channels increased.
Turning to the full-year performance we grew total revenue 8.7% while successfully producing our highest gross margin profit -- I’m sorry our highest ever gross profit margins.
As a result we narrowed our comparable full-year adjusted net loss by $12.2 million relative to a year ago.
Our 2012 results are the continuation of a trend and improvements towards positive net earnings as shown on slide 25.
Looking forward we have established positive momentum in our business as we enter the 2013 fiscal year and remain confident both in the opportunities ahead of us and in our strategy to profitably grow our company.
Now let me turn the call over to Doug for a closer look at the financial results.
Thank you George.
Good morning.
Beginning on slide seven overall sales for the fourth quarter ended December 29 totaled $440.3 million up 12.6% or $49.2 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
This reflects a 5.4% increase in specialty product sales and an 18.9% increase in structural product sales from the year ago period.
Fourth quarter sales mix was favorably impacted by increased structural product pricing compared to the year ago period with structural sales accounting for 44% and specialty sales accounting for 56% of total revenue during the quarter.
The increase in total revenue is attributable to increased specialty unit volume and underlying structural product prices.
Structural wood based product prices retreated early in the quarter and rose during the last two months of the quarter.
Overall unit volume rose 2.9% compared to the same period a year ago as specialty unit volume increased 5.4% and structural unit volume decreased 0.8% compared to the same period last year.
BlueLinx generated approximately $52 million in gross profit for the quarter up 8.7% from approximately $48 million in the year-ago period.
Overall gross margin was 11.8% for the quarter down from last year’s 12.3% as lower margin’s structural products sale increased from 41% of revenue to 44% therefore representing a larger mix of total gross margin.
Fourth quarter operating expenses of $56.7 million were up compared to $50.5 million for the same period a year ago and included $0.2 million and $3.9 million in net gains from real estate related items in 2012 and 2011 respectively.
Excluding real estate related items operating expense increased approximately 4.6% compared to the same period a year ago even while unit volume through warehouse distributional channel increased approximately 6.5%.
We’re pleased with our performance in effectively controlling cost in 2012 and our management team remains focused in this area of our business as revenue growth continues to accelerate.
The company reported an operating loss for the fourth quarter of $4.5 million compared to $2.6 million in the prior year period reflecting a $4.2 million increase in gross profit and a $6.1 million increase in operating expense.
Our fourth quarter net loss of $11.4 million or $0.19 per diluted share compares with a net loss of $10.3 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expenses of $6.8 million which was flat compared to prior year period.
The current year net loss is after a tax provision of approximately $100 000 compared to a tax provision of approximately $800 000 in the prior year period.
Looking at full year results on slide eight sales for the 12 months ending December 29th totaled $1.91 billion up $152.4 million or 8.7% from the same period last year.
Gross margin of 12.1% represents a new act for BlueLinx and compares to 12% in the year ago period.
We believe our ability to expand overall gross margin indicates successful execution of our margin strategy.
Full year reported operating expenses of approximately $224.6 million were up compared to $218.4 million a year ago and included approximately $10.4 million and $12.6 million in significant special items in 2012 and 2011 respectively.
The resulting operating profit of $5.5 million compares to an operating loss of $8.3 million for the same period a year ago and represents a $13.8 million year-over-year improvement.
The full-year reported net loss of $23 million or $0.38 a share compares with a net loss of $38.6 million or $0.89 a year ago.
Turning to slide nine.
EBITDA increased $12.3 million over the prior year period due to the increase in gross profit partially offset by operating expense increases.
Excluding the impact of significant special items in 2012 and 2011 EBITDA improved by $14.5 million.
Turning to cash flow on slide 10.
During the quarter we generated approximately $12 million in cash from operating activities compared to approximately $33 million last year.
Our fourth quarter 2012 operating cash flow was comprised of a net loss of $11.4 million $3 million in non-cash expenses and $19.6 million decrease in working capital and $1.2 million in other items.
The decrease in working cap primarily reflects seasonal decreases in accounts receivable of $34.3 million partially offset by a $9.8 million increase in inventory and a $4.9 million net decreases in accounts payable and other working capital items.
This is the first time since the end of 2005 that the company has increased its inventory position during the fourth quarter in anticipation of accelerated demand.
Investing activities included $300 000 per capital expenditures and $600 000 in proceeds from the sale of excess equipment during the quarter.
Cash used by financing activities of $15.4 million included approximately $13.8 million used to reduce the revolving credit facility.
During Q3 2012 we sold our facility in Newark California.
The cash received from the sales reflected in the mortgage cash trap at September 29 2012.
On October 1 2012 $12.8 million of cash from the sale and $11.8 million of cash accumulated in the mortgage cash trap was used to pay down the mortgage principal.
The resulting cash balance at December 29th was $5.2 million compared with $4.9 million a year ago.
For the 12 months of 2012 we used approximately $74 million of cash for operating activities compared to approximately $50 million in cash during a year ago period.
Our operating cash flow in 2012 includes a net loss of $23 million $12.3 million in non-cash expenses and $4.5 million in other items offset by a $52.3 million increase in working capital $9.9 million in gains from the sale of certain properties and $5.9 million from the modification of our corporate headquarters’ lease agreement previously disclosed in the third quarter of 2011.
Working capital increased primarily due to higher sales volumes this year versus last year coupled with a typical acceleration of housing starts late in the quarter.
Cash provided by investing activities were $16.4 million for the twelve months of 2012 driven by proceeds from the sale of real estate.
Cash provided by financing activities was approximately $58 million driven by a $76.9 million increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving debt facility a $37.3 million in mortgage principal payment a $13 million increase in bank overdrafts a $10 million decrease in restricted cash related to the mortgage and $4.5 million usage from other items.
This compares to approximately $29 million of cash provided by financing activities a year ago.
As a reminder we completed the $60 million rights offerings during the third quarter of 2011.
On July 29 2011 we issued approximately 28.6 million shares and received $60 million in gross proceeds from the rights offerings.
$56 million of the proceeds from the rights offerings were used to immediately pay down the revolving credit facility.
In conjunction with the rights offerings we negotiated an amendment to our mortgage agreement which in part allowed for the release of $38.3 million in total funds held as collateral under the mortgage agreement saving $2.4 million a year in interest expense.
The released cash was used for an immediate prepayment on the mortgage loan without incurring a prepayment penalty.
Moving to slide 11 we had approximately $88 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facilities as of quarter end.
That is approximately $50 million above our minimum availability requirements as of December 29.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $377.4 million a decrease of $42.7 million from the third quarter of 2012.
Net debt at the end of the fourth quarter was approximately $372 million compared to $387 million at September 29.
Turning to slide 12 cash cycle days for the fourth quarter totaled 58.
That compares with 59 days sequentially and 56 days for the same period a year ago.
The increase in cash cycle days is a result of both strategic inventory investments to support targeted growth and a higher mix of structural product dollars which traditionally carry shorter payment terms.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Now let me turn the call back over to George.
Thanks Doug.
I’d like to share a few observations before turning the call over to the operator for questions.
As we move forward in 2013 we are confident in our ability to both increase our share of the market and maintain operating discipline that we have demonstrated over the last several years.
We remain focused on providing dependable high-quality service to our customers as the recovery of the residential construction market continues to accelerate.
We are encouraged by economic forecasters who point to favorable outlook for household creation and new home construction.
The consensus and forecasts we monitor including those produced by research information systems and the National Association Of Homebuilders currently put housing starts in the range of approximately 900 000 to 1.2 million units for 2013.
These same forecasters estimate continued growth in 2014.
The outlook for some of our other end-use markets is also encouraging with repair remodeling activity expected to increase throughout 2013 and with modest growth predicted for industrials and non-residential construction markets.
In summary the operating environment is improving and the housing market currently is showing significant signs of improvement.
Our 2013 operating plan is based on expectations that our sales will significantly increase from 2012 levels as the overall market for the products we distribute continues to gain momentum.
Our plan is to maintain a strong gross margin level by continuing to focus on specialty product growth and by effectively managing our structural business for profitability.
In 2012 we achieved record gross margins of 12.1% delivering a 20 basis point improvement in specialty gross margin and a 30 basis point improvement in structural.
I’m very pleased with the strong margin performance in 2012.
In addition we’ll continue to effectively manage our operating costs as we have done over the last several years without diminishing our ability to achieve our growth objectives.
Excluding significant special items 2012 operating expenses increased approximately 1.7% compared to 2011 even while unit volumes through the warehouse distribution channel increased approximately 9%.
Executing our growth plan requires that we have the financial leverage sales expertise and inventory necessary to support accelerated growth.
We are moving forward with specific goals on these fronts in 2013.
As previously announced we have initiated a $40 million rights offering to more fully participate in the housing market improvements.
We are highly confident in the effectiveness of our nationwide sales force which was executed extremely well over the past year delivering 8.7% revenue growth and record gross margins and is staffed to meet our 2013 growth objectives.
Our product portfolio and support services remain best-in-class.
We currently are working to ramp up sales of new and existing products over the next several months and we believe they will possibly -- positively impact special product unit volume growth in 2013.
Let me take a moment to share a couple of examples.
During the fourth quarter we launched our new SteelLinx website www.steellinx.com.
SteelLinx is BlueLinx’s comprehensive proprietary line of quality metal products.
The website puts the full breadth of our SteelLinx product offering at the fingertips of our sales team and customers providing that we believe to be a very effective sales tool.
Another example is our new complete line of privately branded engineered products onCENTER which we launched last February.
Our customers have responded well to our total engineered product solution this year and we expect to continue both in this year and 2013 as we execute target initiatives.
Our year old relationship with Weyerhaeuser in the Northeast continues to -- continue to be another notable success.
Finally our strategic relationships are strong.
We believe the combination of successful execution of our strategy and a continued recovery of the housing and construction markets will return BlueLinx to profitability.
With that I’d like to open the call for questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning George.
Good morning Mark.
How are you? Good.
George just as we see volume kind of picking up across the business are you seeing any bottlenecks? What’s funny Mark it’s just that the Harvard Joint Center meeting in the last couple days and that was one of the roundtable discussion points that we talked about as a group of CEOs for around the industry.
And the big bottlenecks our labor that’s from the builder perspective and really from our perspective as well.
Hiring qualified people particularly for us drivers is a challenge and then we still have financing limits on the industry and availability for builders to fund the acquisition of new lots seems that the -- their one of the anchors that will have as the recovery comes forward will be that some of the A lots and the desirable markets are cleaned up and the time to get new lots developed in desirable locations is longer as communities have cut the support teams and the inspectors and all of those things that have been reduced due to recession.
So it’s going to take a little while to ramp up.
But I’ll tell you you know everybody was very very optimistic as with the last meeting that we had in the fall up in Harvard.
The economists are more optimistic than the CEO’s which is flip-flop from during the recession.
But I think every CEO’s very optimistic that the housing recovery will rebound and those follow next.
We’ll work through as prices go up and capacities are expanded.
Okay.
And I know you’re trying really focusing on the Specialty side of your business but with housing picking up and let just say we moved back toward $1.5 million starts? Are the things you can do to kind of extract the most leverage possible from structural side of your business and will you grow with the rise in starts on that side of the business? Yeah.
Absolutely we talk about our structural business and growing and maintaining share that managing profitability.
Our structural business is the fastest-growing portion of our business right now.
We did expect that as we thought it would come earlier in the housing recovery.
But our plan is to maintain our structural focus and that’s a big part of our inventory investment that we have today just between price appreciation and lumber and OSB in particular.
And then demand increases it’s -- we built our inventories and we are participating in the market.
Okay.
Two other questions one is just a relationship with Weyerhaeuser.
I mean historically they’ve had a pretty big distribution business on their own.
So can you just talk about how you sort of work with them when you are presumably at the same time kind of competing with them in some markets? Well we’ve always been a customer of Weyerhaeuser even back when we were at Georgia-Pacific years and years and years ago.
Freight such an important part of the business that sometimes it’s more advantage to procure product from the closure mill.
But the new relationship is exciting to us because it’s engineered lumber.
It’s their brand which is they are the number one supplier in engineered lumber North America.
We have never partnered with them on engineer level in our history until 2012 and we started that relationship in the Northeast in Bellingham Massachusetts our facility there when their distributor had some financial difficulties.
It’s done very very well.
Our customers are excited about it.
I saw some of the Weyerhaeuser guys this week.
They are happy with our performance.
We are happy with the results.
So I think we’ve done a nice job for them and I expect that to continue.
Okay.
And just a last question on that engineered wood business I know the kind of pricing in performance for the manufacturers is not been very good in that business and I know that some of the leading producers have been out there with price initiatives for March.
Do you have any view on how that may or may not take hold? Well they need a price increase when you look at OSB increases and vinyl increase and raw lumber timber increases all the components have gone up but the assembled product hasn’t so that doesn’t make a lot of sense.
So we fully support the price increases in the market.
Okay.
Very good.
Good luck in the first quarter and for the year.
Thanks Mark.
Our next question will come from the line of Greg Cole with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Greg.
Just a question on the specialty revenue side I think the reason it’s been lagging of the large growth on the structural side is the roofing.
Is that still the case? Yeah.
I mean it’s definitely growing slower than the structural side.
We had a tough year -- year-over-year comp in roofing as did everybody in the industry with 2011 storm issues and then the way 2012 came out with large roofing winter buys and price increases.
It was kind of a messy year in the roofing business and it definitely did impacted some major business for us.
And it’s a growing business for us.
Okay.
Do you have a -- do you have an estimate of what it would have grown this year without the roofing impacts? It’s hard to -- you’d like to know what the normal 2011 would have been right so.
The new housing roofing segment increased with starts 20% or so but that storm damage was just so so large in ‘11 and it was thankfully minimal in 2012 thankfully from the perspective of those affected by storms.
The Sandy thing is just kicking in now in the industry.
We just started to see the rebuild up.
So that will have a little uptick in all the product lines but specifically roofing.
So I don’t know I didn’t do the analysis on what a year-over-year comparison would be without the storms but it affected the producers it affected all of the distribution and affected the retailers as well.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And then as we’re -- as you’re trying to get up to the 60% how does that I guess how do you get there in such I guess a blooming market for housing over the next two years.
Is this fare or do you want have to I guess do something on a very large scale to improve specialty revenue? So we were within one point of 60% before the market actually started come back and the structural business comes back first which we had expected and had communicated in previous calls.
So if you take price the price appreciation but particularly in finding lumber in OSB and consider that the impact on what that mix is and then just its structural comes first I’m optimistic that our strategy will allow us to continue our migration toward 60% and beyond.
As we grow our share in codes like roofing and product lines like roofing and product line likes molding and in our metal product line is very strategic to us as I talked about in the prepared comments.
All of those -- all those lines see nice growth and I expect that to continue.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you Greg.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would turn the call back over to Mr.
Judd for any closing remark.
Okay.
Thank you Operator.
Thanks for joining us and I look forward to talking to you in next quarters call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today May 1st 2013.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
Ms.
Davis you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina.
And welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s first quarter 2013 conference call.
Our speakers this morning are George Judd Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I’d like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
We will begin the call this morning with opening remarks from George.
Then Doug will present an in-depth review of the financial statements.
Lastly George will provide an operations review and a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer George Judd.
Thank you Maryon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
Before beginning our remarks regarding the first quarter 2013 results I’d like to comment on our press release issued March 29 2013 announcing the completion of the previously announced $40 million rights offering.
The right offering was fully subscribed and as a result on March 28 BlueLinx received net proceeds of approximately $38.6 million from the offering.
The newly subscribed shares were issued on March 28 2013 resulting in approximately million total shares outstanding.
After giving effect to the offering Cerberus ABP Investor LLC our largest stockholder beneficially owns approximately 54.4% of BlueLinx’ common stock.
Leave you the tremendous response to this right offering by existing shareholders a strong indication of continued confidential in the support in of our gross strategy.
The new residential construction market and a lesser extent the home improvement in revolving markets are showing signs of significant improvement.
I believe this highly successful offering underlines investor confidence and BlueLinx’ ability to benefit from these improving conditions we thank all of our stockholders for their support.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Doug to begin the review of the first quarter financial results.
Doug.
Thank you George.
Good morning.
Beginning on slide six overall sales for the first quarter ended March 30 totaled $503.2 million up 10.9% or $49.4 million from the first quarter of 2012.
This reflects a 27.7% increase in structural product sales and 1% increase in specialty product sales from the year ago period.
First quarter sales mix was favorably impacted by increased structural product pricing compared to the year ago period with structural sales accounting for 46% and specialty sales accounting for 54% of total revenue during the quarter.
Overall unit volume rose 2.7% compared to the same period a year ago as specialty unit volume increased 1.5% and structural unit volume increased 4.5% compared to the same period last year.
Turning to slide seven BlueLinx generated approximately 56 million in gross profit for the quarter of 4.1% from approximately 54 million in the year ago period.
Overall gross margin was 11.2% for the quarter down from last year’s 12% as lower margins structural product sales increased from 41% on revenue to 46% therefore representing a larger mix of total gross margin.
First quarter operating expense of $61.6 million were up compared to $58.3 million for the same period a year ago and included $0.6 million in net expense from significant special items in in 2012.
Excluding significant special items operating expense as a percentage of sales was 12.1% compared to 13% for the same period a year ago.
The company reported an operating loss for the first quarter of 5.1 million compared to 4.1 million in the prior year period reflecting a 2.2 million increase in gross profit and a 3.3 million increase in operating expenses.
Our first quarter net loss of 12.6 million or $0.19 per diluted share compares with a net loss of 11 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expenses of 7.2 million compared to 6.8 million in the prior year period.
The current quarter net loss is after a tax provision of approximately 200 000 which was comparable to the tax provision in the prior year period.
Turning to cash flow on slide eight during the quarter we used approximately 96 million in cash from operating activities compared to approximately 89 million from the same period last year.
Our first quarter of 2013 operating cash flow was comprised of a net loss of 12.6 million 3.8 million in non-cash expenses 86.9 million increase in primary working capital component and 0.1 million usage in other items.
The increase in working capital primarily reflects a 61.4 million increase in accounts receivable in accordance with rising sales seasonal increase in inventory of 90 million partially offset by a corresponding increase in accounts payable of 64.1 million.
As we discussed on prior earnings calls we will continue to tightly manage our working capital items on an ongoing basis and as always we expect to consume cash through the first half of the year as our working capital increased to support a growing business.
Investing activities included approximately 1 million for capital expenditures and 200 000 in proceeds from real-estate related items during the quarter.
Cash provided by financing activities was 96.7 million for the quarter driven by a 71 million net increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility approximately 40 million in proceeds from the rights offering a 6.3 million decrease in bank overdrafts a 3 million in restricted cash related to the mortgage and a 5 million usage from other items.
We received approximately 40 million in gross proceeds from the 2013 rights offering which was offset by expenses paid to-date of approximately 0.01 million.
Net proceeds from the transaction were approximately 38.6 million and exclude all expenses related to the 2013 rights offering.
Some of which were paid during the second quarter 2013.
On that proceeds from the rights offering were used to minutely paid down the US revolving credit facility.
Result in cash balance in March 30th was 5.3 million compared with 5.9 million a year ago.
Moving to slide nine we had approximately 126 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facility as the quarter ends.
This is approximately 78 million above our minimum availability requirement on our U.S.
revolving credit facility as March 30th.
The combined debt balance on out mortgage and revolving credit agreement was 447.7 million an increase of 70.3 million from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Net debt at the end of the first quarter was approximately 439 million compared to approximately 372 million at December 29 401 million at March 31st 2012.
As previously announced concurrent with the completion of the rights offering the company amended and extended the US revolving credit facility.
As a result of the amendment and the extension the company's existing 400 million credit facility was increased by 22.5 million to 422.5 million.
Maturity date was extended to April 15th 2016.
The amended U.S.
revolving credit facility continues to have a 100 million uncommitted accordion credit facility to potentially increase the maximum available credit to 522.5 million.
Turning to slide ten cash cycle days for the first quarter totaled 51.
That compares with 58 days sequentially and 57 days for the same period a year ago.
The increase in cash cycle days is a result of both strategic inventory investments and increases an inventory levels across power regions in anticipation of external spring selling season.
Finally concurrent with this morning's announcement of the first quarter results we announced a subsequent to the end of the first quarter.
We contributed certain qualifying employer real properties of BlueLinx early retirement plan.
Real estate including certain land and building is located in Charlestown South Carolina; Buckland New York that's been valued by independent reprisals at approximately 6.8 million in the aggregate.
The company is leasing back the property from its hourly retirement plan for 20 years and will pay monthly rent to the retirement plan.
The contribution in the property will not have any impact on the company's day to day operations in these locations.
The contribution of real estate is expected to see that all of the company’s 2013 cash contribution requirements for its early retirement plan.
That concludes my prepared remark now let me turn the call back over to George.
Thank you Doug.
Our business is off to a good start in many parts of the country.
BlueLinx performed well in the southern regions but underperformed expectations in the northern regions as the country experienced the long cold winter especially when compared to the early spring experience last year.
We realized sales growth despite the tough comparison and benefitted from strong wood-based structural products prices and increased demand in geographic regions with less severe winter.
As discussed on previous earnings calls in general we expect our structural business to strengthen earlier in the housing recovery and it is our intention to aggressively pursue profitable business growth within this category of our business.
Our customers rely on BlueLinx to support their inventory as the structural businesses expand.
Our job is to manage this growth with a disciplined margin in inventory plan.
We did a good job of this during the first quarter.
Structural sales grew 28% represented 46% of total revenue.
Structural gross margin was 8.7% for the quarter down from 9.9% a year ago.
This is a consequence of the elevated pricing environment we experienced in the first quarter.
With the higher prices the industry transacts business at a lower gross margin rate and it still generates an acceptable return.
So let me give you a specific example.
A truck load of plywood that we might have sold last year for $15 000 with a gross margin of 10% generates $1 500 in gross profit; that same truck load of plywood sold at elevated prices for $25 000 at a 6% gross margin generates the same $1500 in gross profit.
While the gross margin percentage falls the gross margin dollars generated remains constant on a flat unit volume.
We experienced many competitive situations during the quarter that required us to the lower margin expectations although still transacting good business.
Though our first structural gross margin percentages declined compared to a year ago total structural product gross profit dollars grew at a faster rate than our unit volume.
Our unit volume grew at 4.5% the quarter.
Structural gross profit increased to approximately 13% or $2.3 million in the first quarter compared to a year ago.
First quarter gross margin on the Specialty side of the business increased to 13% compared to 12.6% a year ago as we continued to focus on margin improvement pricing discipline and expanding the more value added specialty products in our assortment.
Specialty revenues declined in two of our largest specialty regions compared to the same period last year.
Historically are best specialty sales markets are in the North East and Mid-West which were impacted by severe winter.
When the roads are icy and snow covered we often elect to keep our trucks off the road until they're safe.
Sales in the first quarter last year benefited from record warm temperatures which prompted an earlier than normal start to the 2012 selling season.
The shift contributed to sales growth at 16% in the first quarter of 2012 over the first quarter of 2011.
Specialty sales were up 1% in the first quarter 2013 a large percentage of specialty business is programmed business where customers commit to purchase a specific product or brand exclusively from BlueLinx.
Many of our fastest growing specialty products are more closely tied to the repair and remodel markets which are recovering more slowly.
Looking forward we expect seasonal strengthening in all areas in the second quarter especially the North East and Mid-West and recover and repair and remodeling market to help fuel specialty revenue growth.
In summary we grew overall revenue 10.9% by placing a greater emphasis on core structure products which are used in their earlier phases of new home construction we expect specialty sales to increase with seasonal demand increases and as repair remodeling markets drivers improve.
The repair and remodeling business saw little improvement as the housing market improved in the first quarter.
We continue to do a good job of managing our cost during the quarter.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of sales were 12.2% compared to 12.9% a year ago.
Remain optimistic that to sustained upward trend in both housing starts and permits will continue and will accelerate growth in other areas such as repair and remodeling.
We invested in inventory during the quarter and are well positioned to grow in all regions as we move in to spring our team's focused on providing great products and services to our customers as to overall markets for our product we distribute continues to gain momentum.
With that we open the call to questions operator? (Operator instructions).
Our first question will come from the line of Mark Kaufman with Little Oak asset management.
What’s the outlook on catching up on the specialty side of the business in the North East and Mid-West in this quarter; I certainly understand the weather's still being difficult even in April in the Mid-West? Yes we did see continued acceleration throughout the month of April in specialty sales particularly in the northeast and southern markets of the Northeast we still have those in New England still lower than we like to see it.
The Midwest is not performing at the way we want to see it yet but all of our customers and we have been talking to them regularly have a good pipeline of business and when we look at our specialty business in how the season affects it some of our largest quotes are roofing which we talk about in most of calls our roofing business is well behind where we expected it.
Our decking business with some of that tied to some of our top retail customers is well below where we expected it and our vinyl siding we did a big launch with our vinyl partner Ply Gem a new upgraded vinyl product called compass spend a lot of time and money bringing out product to market together with Ply Gem and we haven’t see the projected increases in revenue.
So start to see it this week even in the Midwest in parts of the Midwest we saw it and we are still optimistic that that business is coming and the reason I talked about program business in my prepared comments program business is lost in advance we haven't lost that business so we have our customers business it’s tied up the prices are set and we got a wait for the orders to come through.
In comparative how does it look in the southeast? Building the southeast had a better first quarter in the specialty side.
I did talk about the ratios of specialty business are traditionally our strongest specialty markets are in the northeast and Midwest so they make up a larger percentage of our total specialty revenues so they are down and they were down in the first quarter it’s an anchor for us.
Those businesses continue to grow in most areas.
We have got a couple of areas that we are not happy with but we are driving it harder and we are optimistic.
Your next question will come from the line of David Williams with Williams Financial.
Just a quick question I wanted to get your thoughts on how you are seeing lumber prices trending now it appears that the things are starting to moderate a bit and then if reduce that moderation what do you expect there how do we expect that the impact may be margins going forward especially as we think about may be specialty coming back up we get into the spring selling season?  Lumber margins are moderating they’re weak right now by lumber prices.
We’re not expecting it to be a prolonged correction we know prices were high on lumber products they can’t continue to go up forever.
So we had expected them to start to fall and we’re managing our inventories in our sales appropriately for that.
But we have an inventory positions.
So when lumber price is fall it affects our gross margin percentages.
We’re optimistic; I think the industry is optimistic listening to others talking to our suppliers.
So there is a lot of business out there that’s happening a lot more business happening 12 months ago.
People are going to have to buy the product to build these homes that are coming out of the ground and I expected there to be a correction.
So it’s pretty down lumber composite is pretty down last week they’re trading down again today mid-week.
And when they level out when they start to go up I think it is short term correction.
So through the quarter I think that we'll have a couple week hit two three weeks hit in our margins and we’ll come back and they will start to gain momentum again.
And then secondly you talked about the R&amp;R market defiantly has improved to the same pace as we’ve seen in the new home market.
What maybe give you confidence or maybe early indications of the R&amp;R market either starting to recover or that it will recover through the back end of the year.
For couple years we’ve been talking about differed home repair and upgrade consumer confidence drives a lot of the upgrade part.
You can’t defer everything forever.
We see the signs we hear it we’ve got a lot of plans and when we talk to (inaudible) Board for the housing institute and when we look at their later are into the leading indicator for remodeling activity they are very optimistic and they talked to all the remodelers and everybody in industry on what’s happening.
How many quotes they have how many digs they have how they turn their order et cetera.
All of that is optimistic.
When I talk to may customers and my suppliers that do a lot of business in the repair and remodeling sector everybody is feeling the same way that there is going to be robust increases in activity.
However nobody felt it yet.
I mean it's up a couple of points and that’s better than shrinking but we don’t feel that people have come out and decided after going for example build a new deck.
It’s slower than we projected but we’ll count it on the future on seasonality and all of the indicators that we measure out there as far as confidence and projects are planned.
You question will come from the line of Alan Webber with (inaudible) and Company.
Can you talk about in some of the markets when some your major product lines whether you think you’ve picked up or lost market share.
I’ve been trying to give you some color with some of the answers to some of our questions when we look our structural portion of the business in the first quarter we maintained or slightly grew market share not everybody reports the same way we do so it’s a difficult comparison but that’s our estimate.
With the specialty side of the business we surveyed all of our top customers and we surveyed all of our suppliers and our business is equal to or better in all them but the customers that are just focused in Texas Arizona Las Vegas or part of California.
If you have real small services area those markets outperformed us.
We did not participate in some of the recovery in the Phoenix and Las Vegas markets that extent the housing recovered.
Traditionally those weren’t large share markets for us and we don’t have large facilities in those markets so that wasn’t a surprise to us.
Basically when you look your volumes relative to new home start like that you kind of just should basically too you’re being heavier in the Northeast and Midwest why the number don’t look as good that way? Well in the Southeast it’s a tough comparison housing starts right and that’s one of the thing that I talked internally to our team about constantly you know the mix up which we didn’t give some disclosure last year on how our revenues are generated from housing starts from repair model from our industrial and manufacturing housing businesses how that mix up components.
When housing grows that 20% 30% 40% depending on the region and repair modeling grows at 2 then what’s the blended average and that’s how we run our business and our expectations and we continue to refine those models to determine how we perform against the market.
But when we look at the products that we sell that are tied to new home construction the structural stuff and then even products like molding products that we counted as specialty like engineered lumber some of the folks count that in a different segment our business is growing market by market with the starts.
There are no further questions at this time I would now turn the call back over to Mr.
Judd for any closing remarks.
Okay thank you operator thank you all for listening to this morning’s call and look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Leportia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today July 31 2013.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
Ms.
Davis you may begin your conference.
Thank you Leportia and welcome everyone to the BlueLinx second quarter 2013 conference call.
Our speakers this morning are Howard Cohen Executive Chairman; and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning.
A copy of the release is available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
Before starting the call I need to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement.
I would like to remind everyone that on today’s call management may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including all statements concerning future or unexpected events or results.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the company’s forward-looking statements due to known or unknown risks and uncertainties.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is provided in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
BlueLinx undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise except as required by law.
With that requirement completed I’d like to remind our listeners that we have posted slides on our website.
We will be referring to these slides during this call and we encourage you to view them during our remarks.
Additionally the slide package contains an appendix of supplementary tables available for your review.
We will begin the call this morning with opening remarks from Howard.
Then Doug will present an in-depth review of the financial results.
Lastly Howard will comment on the current results and add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Now let me turn the call over to our Executive Chairman Howard Cohen.
Thank you Maryon and good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
Before beginning our remarks regarding the second quarter results I’d like to take a moment to address my appointment in mid-May as BlueLinx’s Executive Chairman.
As you know George Judd resigned his position as Chief Executive Officer on May 16 2013.
At the request of the Board of Directors I will service the Executive Chairman until a permanent Chief Executive is selected.
A Search Committee composed of members of the Board of Directors is actively engaged in identifying a permanent replacement.
The leader we are searching for must be a seasoned executive with strong sales and operational experience.
In the meantime we are fortunate to have a strong executive and operational management team at BlueLinx whose focus remains on pursuing our strategic and operational initiatives and achieving our plan for returning BlueLinx to profitability.
On June 25 2013 the company issued a press announcement announcing a strategic restructuring.
This plan will enable the company to operate more efficiently in support of our growth initiatives in key markets.
The restructuring primarily included the elimination of certain headquarters resources.
This headquarters restructuring will help reposition BlueLinx by utilizing a portion of the approximately $9 million to $10 million in annualized cost savings from these initiatives to fuel our growth strategy in key markets.
As part of this strategy we also plan to sell or close five of our distribution centers in the West.
Upon completion the company expects to generate approximately $25 million to $27 million in operating cash; a portion of which will be reinvested in our markets with the balance used to pay down long-term debt.
Let me take a moment to clarify the actions we have taken this quarter and discuss in more detail the restructuring plan and the roadmap we will use to guide BlueLinx back to profitability.
Our primary focus as we assess the current state of our headquarters and facilities operations was to ensure we are creating the highest possible return on our investment in both the resources we employ and the facilities that we operate.
We’ve performed a comprehensive and stringent look at our headquarters process and resources and made the necessary adjustments including a reduction in number and layers of management to ensure that we are only operating with critical resources moving more aggressively and providing an immediate return to our business.
As we have indicated numerous times in previous earnings calls we continually review our network of distribution centers to ensure appropriate returns are being achieved and to implement corrective actions where necessary.
The five distribution centers in the West which we have identified for sale or closure have been underperforming for sometime.
These distribution centers are in markets that historically have been very challenging for BlueLinx.
After extensive efforts to return these operations around we’ve made a difficult decision to exit these facilities and redirect our capital from these savings to areas of investment that will drive future revenue growth.
Actions taken in this quarter are part of a broader roadmap which defines the path to profitability for BlueLinx.
We must renew the focus on our specialty growth and margin improvement strategy to take advantage of the strong profitable growth potential these products offer BlueLinx.
As we have said in the past; specialty offers higher margins less price volatility and is well suited to our distribution platform our knowledgeable sales force and our solution based value proposition.
To support our specialty growth initiatives it is critical that we continue to focus on targeted growing accounts to serve profitable high growth markets.
As part of our initiative we are focusing additional resources to grow this portion of our business.
Improving gross margin is critical to our future growth strategy and to returning BlueLinx to profitability.
This has two parts to it; increasing our mix of specialty products which we just discussed and managing our structural products business for profitability.
Looking at the second part structural products we must focus on reducing the impact of price declines in the structural markets on our gross margin performance.
We will redouble our efforts to take advantage of favorable market conditions and work to mitigate the impact of unfavorable market changes through crisper decision making and execution.
Our value proposition is based on customer service and timely deliveries of the right products and on working closely with our customers to find the best cost solutions to the inventory management challenges.
As part of our roadmap to profitability we have decentralized decision making to better serve local needs in individual markets.
For example supply chain decision making will be handled on a local market basis allowing for greater opportunities to exceed our customers’ expectations.
We will leverage these strengths to obtain our profitability goals.
Cost management is an area that we have focused on throughout the downturn in the housing market.
We will carry forward our disciplined approach as we move forward in improving housing market.
We will build on our success in the area of utilizing our advanced technology to further manage costs to the current operating environment and reduce our core operating expenses.
For example we expect to introduce to the market our latest E-Commerce solutions for comprehensive online product ordering called E-Store in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The state of the art technology will provide our customers the convenience of an online ordering 24/7 and complements our current online catalog and order tracking two customer-focused online offerings that have well received by our customers.
Initiatives like this will allow us to execute with greater speed efficiency and capability in a dynamically changing environment.
As I mentioned part of our proposition is to timely deliver the right products at the right time.
This of course means having the right inventory at the right time and place.
We will leverage our state of the art systems and decentralize decision making to ensure the highest return on our inventory investment and proper cash management which includes improved inventory turns.
Finally and keeping with our current guidelines all of the distribution centers in the BlueLinx network will continue to be evaluated for profitability and to ensure that they are delivering acceptable returns.
This plan for returning BlueLinx to profitability requires a laser-like focus assigning accountability and executing with more precision than ever before.
The CEO for whom we are searching must and will have the skill set needed to continue to reinforce our priorities to ensure a timely return to profitability.
Through these efforts and the continued hard work of the BlueLinx team we are committed to returning BlueLinx to profitability in the near future.
We expect that we will be positioned to be EBITDA positive in the second half of 2013 and beyond assuming total revenue consistent with market expectations.
And now I’m going to turn it over to Doug to begin the review of our second quarter financial results.
Thank you Howard.
This morning we reported a net loss of $22.3 million or $0.27 per diluted share for the fiscal second quarter of 2013 compared with a net loss of $3.7 million or $0.06 per diluted share for the fiscal second quarter of 2012.
As Howard just mentioned and is noted in our press release this morning our second quarter results were impacted by several previously announced factors; a pre-tax restructuring charge of $8.3 million or $0.10 per diluted share related to the company’s change in executive leadership and strategic restructuring activities lower gross margins related to a significant decline in prices for structural wood products throughout the fiscal second quarter including a pre-tax lower cost or market reserve charge of $3.8 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
For those following along with the conference call slides posted in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website I’ll begin the detailed review of the results with Slide 7.
Overall sales for the second quarter ended June 29 totaled $604.6 million up 16.9% or $87.6 million from the second quarter of 2012.
This reflects a 28.2% increase in structural product sales and an 8.3% increase in specialty product sales from the year ago period.
Second quarter sales mix was favorably impacted by increased structural product pricing compared to the year ago period with structural sales accounting for 45% and specialty sales accounting for 55% of total revenue during the quarter.
Overall unit volume rose 9.5% compared to the same period a year ago as specialty unit volume increased 7.4% and structural unit volume increased 12.6% compared to the same period last year.
BlueLinx generated approximately $55 million in gross profit for the quarter down 12.7% from approximately $63 million in the year ago period.
The current quarter gross profit included a lower of cost for market charge of approximately $3.8 million and an inventory restructuring charge of approximately $1 million.
Overall gross margin was 9.1% for the quarter down from last year’s 12.2%.
Further deterioration in overall gross margin was driven by declines in structural product gross margins.
Structural margins declined to an unusual 4% from 9.5% a year ago due to a 31% decrease in structural wood prices during the quarter.
Also lower margin structural product sales increased from 41% of revenue to 45% therefore representing a larger mix of total gross margin.
As you can see on Slide 20 structural margins normally range in the low 9%.
They’ve only fallen below 7% on one other occasion which was the fourth quarter of 2008.
Specialty gross margins of 13.4% for the second quarter of 2013 compared to 13.3% a year ago and reflect the company’s ongoing initiatives to increase gross margins.
Second quarter operating expenses of $70.7 million increased $11.4 million compared to the same period a year ago.
Restructuring charges of $7.3 million in operating expense included severance charges of $4.3 million stock compensation charges of $2.5 million and $0.5 million in other charges all associated with the company’s previously disclosed change in executive leadership and strategic restructuring activities.
Operating expense in the prior year period included $0.5 million gain from a property insurance settlement.
Excluding the impact of the significant special items operating expense as a percentage of sales declined to 10.5% compared to a 11.6% a year ago even as unit volume to the warehouse channel increased 11.4% compared to the year ago period.
Reported operating losses for the quarter was $15.6 million compared to an operating profit of $3.9 million a year ago and reflects the decline in gross margin and the significant special items previously discussed.
The second quarter net loss of $22.3 million or $0.27 per diluted share compares with a net loss of $3.7 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expense $6.9 million compared to $7.3 million in the prior year period.
The current quarter net loss is after a tax benefit of approximately $300 000 and compares to a tax provision of approximately $200 000 in the prior year period.
After adjusting for the previously discussed significant special items in the second quarter of 2013 and 2012 adjusted net loss for the quarter ending June 29 2013 was approximately $8.5 million or $0.10 per diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $2.6 million or $0.04 per adjusted diluted share in a year ago period.
Looking at year-to-date results on Slide 8 sales for the six months ending June 29 totaled $1.11 million up 14.1% from the same period a year ago.
BlueLinx generated approximately $111.6 million in gross profit for the six months ended June 29 2013 down 4.9% from approximately $117.4 million in the year-ago period.
Declines in gross margin were driven by lower margin structural sales increasing from 41% of revenue in the year ago period to 45% of revenue for the six months ended June 29 2013 compounded by the low structural gross margin in the second quarter.
The decline in gross margin was partially offset by an increase in specialty gross margins to 13.2% from 13% a year ago as a result of the company’s ongoing initiatives to increase margins.
Total operating expenses increased to $132.3 million from $117.6 million a year ago.
Operating expenses in the first half of 2013 included $8.2 million in restructuring and severance cost and $0.2 million in gains from the sale of certain properties.
Operating expenses in the first half of 2012 included total gains of $1 million from an insurance settlement and the sale of certain properties.
Excluding the impact of significant special items operating expense as a percentage of sales declined to 11.2% compared to 12.2% a year ago even as unit volume to the warehouse channel increased 7.1% compared to the year ago period.
Reported operating losses for the six months ended June 29 2013 was $20.7 million compared to an operating loss of $0.2 million a year ago and reflects a decline in gross margin and the significant special items previously discussed.
Net loss for the six months ended June 29 2013 totaled $35 million or $0.46 per diluted share compared with $14.7 million or $0.23 per diluted share a year ago.
Six months results for 2013 include a pre-tax restructuring charge totaling $9.2 million or $0.12 per diluted share and a lower of cost or market reserve charge of $3.8 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
After adjusting for the previously discussed significant special items in 2013 and 2012 adjusted net loss for the six months ending June 29 2013 was approximately $15.9 million or $0.21 per adjusted diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $9.8 million or $0.15 for adjusted diluted share in the year ago period.
The company’s operating results for the 2013 2012 second quarter and year-to-date periods adjusted for significant special items are shown on Slide 9 in the presentation accompanying this conference call and in the company’s press release issued this morning.
A complete reconciliation of GAAP net loss to adjusted net loss is included in both the appendix of the conference call presentation and the press release supporting tables.
Turning to cash flow on Slide 10 during the quarter we used approximately $38 million in cash from operating activities compared to approximately $22 million for the same period last year.
Our second quarter 2013 operating cash flow was comprised of a net loss of $22.3 million $6.4 million in non-cash expenses a $27.2 million increase primarily in working capital components $4.3 million in severance charges and $1 million in other sources.
The increase in working capital primarily reflects $14.1 million increase in accounts receivable in accordance with higher sales a decrease in inventory of $1.2 million and a corresponding decrease in accounts payable of $14.3 million.
As we’ve discussed in some prior earnings calls we will continue to tightly manage our working capital items on an ongoing basis but as always we expect to consume cash through the first half of the year as our working capital increase is to support a growing business.
Investing activities included approximately $2 million for capital expenditures and $200 000 in proceeds from real estate related items during the quarter.
Cash provided by financing activities was $42.7 million for the quarter driven by a $57.6 million net increase in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and $8.2 million decrease in bank overdrafts a $3.5 million principal payment on the mortgage and $3.2 million usage from other items.
The resulting cash balance at June 29 was $8.4 million compared with $5.2 million a year ago.
Moving to Slide 11 we had approximately $93 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facilities as of quarter end.
That is approximately $43 million above our minimum availability requirement on our U.S.
revolving credit facility as of June 29.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage in revolving credit agreements was $501.8 million an increase of $54.1 million from the first quarter of 2013.
Net debt at the end of the second quarter was approximately $491 million compared to approximately $427 million at June 30 2012 and $439 million at March 30 2013.
Consistent with prior years excess availability will likely tighten throughout year-end but we believe that the amounts available from our revolving credit facilities and other sources will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements for the next 12 months.
As previously announced on June 28 2013 the company entered into an amendment to its U.S.
revolving credit agreement that increased the maximum availability under its main credit facility to $447.5 million from $422.5 million.
Under terms of the agreement PNC Bank joined the syndicate of existing lenders and provided a loan commitment in the amount of $25 million utilizing $25 million of the company's $100 million uncommitted accordion credit facility.
All other material items of the credit agreement including its April 2016 maturity remained substantially the same.
Turning to Slide 12 cash cycle days for the second quarter totaled 63.
That compares with 61 days sequentially and 59 days for the same period a year ago.
The increase in cash cycle days is a result of both strategic inventory investments and increases in inventory levels across all regions in anticipation of a strong summer selling season.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Now let me turn the call back over to Howard.
Thank you Doug.
The second quarter operating environment was characterized by continued improvement in the residential construction markets and challenging structural wood market.
Against the backdrop of improving demand in the residential construction markets BlueLinx’s second quarter revenue grew 16.9% on a total until volume growth of 9.5% both structural and specialty product groups showed year-over-year revenue and unit improvement.
While structural wood prices increased compared to a year ago quarter and helped fuel the company’s second quarter top line revenue growth prices experienced a steady downward trajectory during the three months ended June 29 2013.
The company entered the second quarter with approximately 38 days or 20% to 25% increase in structural wood inventory compared to the typical level of 30 days in anticipation of a significant increase in demand that did not materialize.
Average prices for benchmarked structural wood products declined approximately 31% from the end of the first quarter to the end of the second quarter.
This dramatic drop in structural wood markets during the quarter had a negative impact on our structural and overall gross margins and as Doug indicated at 4% the structural margin was less than half of our normal levels.
As we entered the third quarter of 2013 structural wood based product prices have begun to stabilize and we expect a corresponding improvement in gross margin rates for the third quarter.
While our second quarter results were negatively impacted by restructuring charges we consider charges to be special in nature.
As previously announced we expect the company’s third quarter GAAP financial results to include a range of $1.5 million to $2.5 million of non-cash restructuring charges as we complete the sale foreclosure of our five distribution centers in the West.
The company anticipates that the second and third quarter restructuring activities will have a positive effect on long-term financial performance.
Excluding the five distribution centers the company expects these restructuring activities to generate annual payroll related and other cost savings in the range of $9 million to $10 million as previously stated.
In light of our strategic restructuring let me take a moment to discuss our long-term strategic objectives and our commitment to achieving these objectives.
Our long-term strategic objectives are to profitably grow specialty revenues to 6% plus of total sales while improving our gross margin performance profitably managed structural price during all business cycles maintain and increase our specialty market share in markets that we serve continue to reduce our core operating expenses and finally to execute with greater speed and effectiveness.
The outlook for new residential construction continues to suggest favorable opportunities for BlueLinx.
Our restructuring initiatives will reduce expenses better align costs with the current and future geographic resources of revenue and improve operating efficiencies.
We believe the benefits of our strategic restructuring plan and the operating strategies are keys to achieving our plan of restructuring BlueLinx to profitability.
We are aggressively pursuing this plan and expect to begin favorable impact of our recent actions in the second half of 2013.
This restructuring plan sets a new course for BlueLinx accelerating our path to profitability and future growth.
Helped by a continued recovery of the housing market and our recent restructuring we expect BlueLinx to be positioned to be EBITDA positive in the second half of 2013 and beyond assuming total revenue and consistent with market expectations.
Looking ahead I am confident that our roadmap will provide focus structural improvements and lower costs which will be the underpin of delivery of our growth of ambitions and create sustainable and profitable growth for BlueLinx in the future.
With that I’ll open it up for questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of David Williams.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hey David.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Well I’ve got a couple of things.
But first I wanted to ask you about the distribution centers.
So we’re closing five of those in the West and that’s a fairly small geographic presence for you guys today.
But as we start thinking about the mix of products that’s sold in that region and just that geography what should we expect maybe from the top line perspective and then also maybe from a mix of products that will be eliminated from the elimination of those distribution centers? Well let’s start with the five locations that we closed.
We’ve really been unprofitable on those locations for numerous years and with all the efforts that we’ve made they continue to be unprofitable and they were going to be unprofitable in our forecast in the future.
The product mix that was there was about the same ratios as everywhere else in the United States.
So we don’t expect any mix change in fact mix may improve in the future as we focus more on specialty products in the markets that we serve.
Does that answer your question? It does.
Thank you.
Thanks for that.
Any thoughts on maybe the top line impact here? Well our revenue… Those five facilities excuse me are on a trailing 12-month basis we’re probably around $120 million for the all five facilities.
They were actually at a higher run rate this year because a couple of them participated fairly heavily in the first quarter run up and structural but let’s say about $120 million.
Okay great.
And any thoughts on maybe the drag that you might have experienced from those being underperforming on OpEx line?  Net net we’ll share more details on that on the third quarter.
Once we’ve completed the closure and all that we’ll provide some pro forma information et cetera.
Okay.
We’re planning to say as Howard mentioned they were unprofitable so you can kind of get pretty close on the math.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then I wanted to talk a little bit on the gross margin side here and obviously the impacts from the lumber movements are (inaudible) they were impactful but thinking about the inventory build that you guys had before the summer selling season what kind of impact do you think maybe if we are thinking about a normalized quarter if you can even call it normalized quarter.
But I guess I’m just trying to get a sense of how much of the gross margin impact was because of that inventory builds and how much of it was just simply because of pricing and that would have otherwise been in play regardless of that inventory build? Let me answer part of that question and then I’ll turn it over to Doug.
I think we lost our focus in the second quarter on specialty products and because we lost our focus we underperformed then what we would have thought would have been a normal reasonable trend on specialty price going into the second quarter.
As I mentioned in my remarks I mean we build inventory at a higher rate than we should have and thus we as we sold through that product we ended up taking it at lower margins.
As we go into the third quarter because of our SKU rationalization program as well as our focus on inventory you’ll see a fairly dramatic drop to the appropriate levels necessary to support the fourth quarter selling cycle.
So I think you’re going to see a much better look as you look backwards at the end of the third quarter.
In terms of the margin impact we were good 5% below what I would consider to be a normal margin performance 4% versus 9% and that’s on 45% of our revenue so materially impactful on the overall company’s gross margin.
Okay thanks.
And one last one if I could if we think about the specialty growing to maybe 60% of sales is there any thought that maybe we can flow the structural side to help boost the more profitable specialty side or is that the kind of a give and take there that you need the structural to get the specialty.
Well that’s a little bit like I’m also chewing of a supermarket chain ever since.
You got to have the milk and you got to have the bread and bananas for people to come into the grocery store.
It’s a little bit the same in the distribution business.
You’ve got to have the structural product for people to give us the phone calls.
So we just have to get our mix properly in place.
Part of our decision making is to provide our local managers with more authority to bring products that are more appropriate for the marketplace especially on the specialty side.
And so I think that you’ll see as we go forward a proper ratio between specialty and structural and I don’t think it’s unreasonable that we move towards that 60% level on the specialty side.
All right.
And do you have maybe a target of a blended rate for gross margin going forward.
I mean what is that – what would that ultimate goal be if we look at it 2014 and what would make you I guess pleased with the progress?  Our immediate goal is to get back to what you saw for the last couple of years was when we were at 12% but we’re not going to be satisfied with that.
I would agree with that.
We are both the same time that our historical trends have been around the 12% level.
As you move more towards specialty products which as you heard in the as well as in the 10-K as well as in the presentation we’re getting 13 plus margins.
There is no reason why we can’t move to higher number in the future and that should bring up the overall margin for the company.
Perfect.
Thanks guys for the color.
I certainly appreciate it and good luck on the quarter.
Thanks David.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Kaufman.
Hi thanks for the call.
Actually thanks for the opportunity to get on the call.
In the light of the well the events of the past five years is the industry a little bit hollowed out as far as management talent and do you think it’s going to be difficult to find a permanent CEO?  Well I would tell you that hi Mark this is Howard.
I have been actively involved in the recruiting process for the new CEO and you might be surprised but even though the industry has had some significant downturn in the last five or six years the talent that we are looking at is excellent.
It’s not necessarily that it has to come from the building products industry but we’re looking for a CEO a current CEO or one that has just sold the company or what have you but someone that’s managed a large business understands operations understands sales has been in a public or a private company at a fairly significant operation and understands how to grow a business and we’ve been very fortunate that we’ve been able to find some very very good talent.
And it’s my expectation that you’ll be very pleased with the type of individual with their experience level and their maturity to help lead this company toward continued profitability in the future.
Okay if I may have a follow-on question just a little shifting gears here thinking about going into the second quarter with too much inventory and thinking about your other comment that the worst quarter you had was fourth quarter 2008 where you had declining prices and declining demand was this is a situation where you had increasing demand declining prices and was the declining prices the result of not just you but other industry participants basically over ordering if you can comment on the outflow of industry parameters there in the quarter? I’ll let Doug also answer this but I think we got too enthusiastic in the second quarter as far as where the pricing would go on the structural side and as mentioned we probably ordered too much product and then we had to wash through it and that obviously hurt our margins.
And on the over inventory side of specialty that’s in truth more lack of focus than it is that we had too much we just didn’t sell what we should have in the second quarter.
I think you’ll see that we’re correcting that problem and as you go forward we’ll sell-through our inventory appropriately for the inventory that we have on hand.
I remember in the first quarter there were some problems about weather did you see any follow-on from that in the second quarter? Well the first quarter what we commented on was you had more of a normal – there was winter in the first quarter of 2013 versus 2012 and we definitely have seen a pickup and had a pickup in the second quarter.
Our structural volumes were up a little over 12%.
So although they were not up quite what our expectations were and I think there is probably others in the industry that say the same thing so not quite up.
We were long on our inventory position ending the first quarter this year (inaudible) on commodity wood products.
One of the things that we talked about in the first quarter is that we did intend to be more aggressive in sales.
We felt we exceeded some market share particularly on the structural wood side of the business and we were going to be more aggressive and we stock-invested accordingly for that and unfortunately we did that at the wrong time in the market.
And there is no excuse for having more inventory than we needed but obviously the whole industry kind of over anticipated the pricing going forward in the second quarter.
So to the degree that we had too much inventory and then the pricing dropped as much as it did 31% we just had to wash as I mentioned before we had to wash that inventory.
We are in a much better position today and as we go forward and are keeping our eye much closer on the ordering of product to ensure that we have the appropriate inventory at the appropriate locations for the sales number so that I think you’ll see as we go forward that we are in a better position.
Okay.
If I may one more assuming that both structural volumes were certainly up and that new houses are getting completed out there do you anticipate just through the normal flow through structural coming first and then specialty that you are seeing somewhat continued pick up in the specialty business here in the third quarter and also if you could comment at all about what you are seeing from lows in Home Depot on the remodeling market? Well there was two parts to your question on the pick up of specialty yes we are seeing an improvement in our sales demand and obviously we are seeing an improvement on margins what we saw in the first half of this year especially the second quarter.
As it relates to lows in Home Depot at least from our perspective we are not seeing that significant increase in the remodel market as it relates to our sales numbers.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now turn the call back over to Mr.
Cohen for closing remarks.
Well again I like to thank everyone for attending the meeting and thank you for your questions and we’ll talk to you again in the second quarter.
Thank you again.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tony and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx’s Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today October 30 2013.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
Ms.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Tony.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast on the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website.
This presentation includes statements about our expectation of future operational and financial performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to a number of risks uncertainties and assumption that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to risks and uncertainties with respect to economic governmental and technological factors outside of our control and changes into supply and/or demand for products we distribute particularly as a result of conditions in the residential housing market.
These and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
We undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Finally we undertake no obligation to review or confirm analyst’s expectations or estimates that might be derived from this presentation.
This presentation includes references to EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Regulation G.
Reconciliations of net income to EBITDA and segment income to segment EBITDA are included as an appendix and are posted on our website at bluelinxco.com.
Our speakers this morning are Howard Cohen Executive Chairman; and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Doug will begin the call this morning with a review of the financial statements then Howard will comment on the current results and add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Doug Goforth.
Thanks Maryon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we reported a net loss of $3.2 million or $0.04 per diluted share for the fiscal third quarter of 2013 compared with a net profit of $3.1 million or $0.05 per diluted share for the fiscal third quarter of 2012.
As noted in our press release this morning our third quarter results were impacted by the following previously announced items.
A pre-tax restructuring charge of $2.8 million or $0.03 per diluted share primarily related to the closure of five distribution centers and a pre-tax gain of $3.7 million or $0.04 per diluted share related to the sale of the company’s office building located in Denver Colorado.
Beginning on Slide 5 overall sales for the third quarter ended September 28 totaled $558 million up 12.3% or $61.1 million from the third quarter of 2012.
Specialty sales increased 11% year-over-year reflecting a 10.2% increase in unit volume and a slight increase in product selling prices.
Specialty products comprised 57% of total sales up from 55% in the second quarter of 2013 as we continue to focus on higher margin products and services and down from 58% from the same period last year.
Structural product sales increased 15% from the same period last year.
This increase was driven by a 14.2% increase in volume and 0.9% year-over-year increase in product selling prices as prices for wood based structural products stabilized during the quarter.
Overall unit volume increased 11.9% compared to the year ago period.
Gross profit for the third quarter totaled $62.5 million up 3.2% from $60.5 million in the year ago period.
Gross margins were 11.2% compared to 12.2% a year ago.
Overall gross margins were impacted by a higher mix of lower margin structural sales lower margin sales related to the closure of five distribution centers in a highly competitive pricing environment.
Third quarter operating expenses of $59.4 million increased $9.1 million compared to the same period a year ago.
Operating expenses included $0.9 million in net gains from significant special items as previously discussed compared to $9.2 million gain from the sale of certain properties in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of the significant special item operating expense as a percentage of sales improved 10.8% compared to 12% a year ago even as unit volume through the warehouse channel increased 11.6% compared to the year ago period.
Reported operating profit for the quarter was $3.1 million compared to an operating profit of $10.3 million a year ago and reflects the increase in gross margin and the significant special items previously discussed.
The third quarter net loss of $3.2 million or $0.04 per diluted share compares with the net profit of $3.1 million or $0.05 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012.
Our reported net loss for the period is after interest expense of $6.9 million compared to $7.3 million in the prior year period.
The current quarter net loss is after a tax benefit of approximately $600 000 and compares to a tax benefit of approximately $100 000 in the prior year period.
After adjusting for previously discussed significant special items in the third quarters of 2013 and 2012 adjusted net loss for the quarter ending September 28 2013 was approximately $2.2 million or $0.03 per adjusted diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $3.7 million or $0.06 per adjusted diluted share in the year ago period.
The company’s operating results for the 2013 and 2012 third quarter and year-to-date period adjusted for significant special items are shown on Slide 6 in the presentation accompanying this conference call and in the company’s press release issued this morning.
A complete reconciliation of GAAP net loss to adjusted net loss is included in both the appendix of the conference call presentation and the press release supporting tables.
Turning to cash flow on Slide 7 during the quarter BlueLinx generated approximately $63 million in cash from operating activity up from approximately $23 million for the same period last year.
Moving to Slide 8 we had approximately $93 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facility as of quarter end.
That is approximately $51 million above our minimum availability requirement on our U.S.
revolving credit facility as of September 28.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $437.9 million a decrease of $63.9 million from the second quarter of 2013.
Net debt at the end of the third quarter was approximately $422 million compared to approximately $387 million at September 29 2012 and $491 million at June 29 2013.
Consistent with prior years' excess availability always tightens through year end but we believe that the amounts available from our revolving credit facilities and other sources will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements for the next 12 months.
As previously discussed during the third quarter of 2013 the company sold its office building in Denver Colorado.
The cash received from this sale was reflected in the mortgage cash (inaudible) at September 28th 2013.
On October 1 2013 $8.4 million of cash was used to pay down the mortgage principal.
Turning to Slide 9 cash cycle days for the third quarter totaled 61.
That compares to 63 days sequentially and 59 days for the same period a year ago.
The sequential decrease in cash cycle days is partly result of efforts to rationalize our inventory to ensure an appropriate return on investment.
We continue to balance inventory levels with the demand environment while also continuing to support strategic products and vendors as part of our ongoing focus on specialty product growth.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Now let me turn the call over to Howard.
Thank you Doug.
I will begin my remarks with a brief report on the progress made and the path to profitability roadmap outlined during the company’s second quarter conference call.
Slide 11 provides a complete overview of the roadmap along with an update on each component of the company’s plan to create sustainable and profitable growth for BlueLinx.
I will highlight several key items impacting the third quarter results.
The implementation of the restructuring program is proceeding as planned in sales and operational initiatives are having a positive impact on the company’s financial performance.
Despite the restructuring this quarter the company achieved significant improvement in same-center results.
Specifically we have gained sales growth momentum and higher margin specialty products.
The renewed focus on specialty product growth resulted in an increase in revenue of approximately $32 million or 11% over the same period last year as unit volume increased 10.2%.
This unit volume increase is the strongest specialty unit volume growth since the first quarter of 2012 which was favorably impacted by mild weather.
We are encouraged by the unit growth we are able to achieve in the quarter.
Same-center specialty product growth grew 11.7% from a year ago.
The mix of specialty products also improved for the third quarter rising to 57% of total revenues from 55% in the second quarter of 2013.
On an overall basis commodity pricing has stabilized and margins are recovering.
Overall gross margin increased approximately $2 million over the same period last year.
As Doug discussed gross margin percentage was pressure during the quarter by several factors including the wind down of the five distribution centers that were closed in September.
However on a same-center basis our margin percentage improved through out the quarter and continues to improve in October.
And third quarter results benefited from operating leverage as a result of changes made to reduce the company’s cost structure and simplify the organization structure.
As previously announced during the quarter we closed five under performing distribution centers.
Turning to Slide 12.
On the same-center basis sales increased 14.2% for the third quarter compared to the same period a year ago.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 118% to $6.1 million from $2.8 million for the same period a year ago.
The increase in adjusted EBITDA reflects an increase in unit volume of 11.9% and the company’s continued focus in operating efficiencies and leveraging fixed cost as unit volume increased.
We have launched other initiatives this quarter that we believe will add significantly to the company’s financial performance.
We are pursuing multiple avenues for growth in addition to accelerated specialty product growth including an emphasis on faster growing markets and expanding into adjacent markets like multifamily.
Finally I’d like to take a minute to discuss our search for the permanent CEO.
During the last five months the search committee has met with an exceptional group of candidates that we believe are capable or rapidly taking the company to the next level.
While we are not ready to make an announcement I expect the new CEO to be in place January 1.
Since this may be a last chance for me to publicly address this audience I want to thank everyone in BlueLinx for the support they've provided me over the past several months.
While there remains much to accomplish I feel fortunate that we have such a dedicated team eager to support the permanent CEO.
And with that I’ll open it up for questions.
Operator? Okay.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of David Williams with Williams Financial.
It looks like you guys are making some good progress on really moving up that mix of specialty products in the overall revenue base from 57% to 55% was a nice move.
Can you talk a little bit about may be the strategy on driving that specialty and then maybe how your -- what that margin differential is and where you expect that to go may be over the next nine to 12 months? Well this is Howard.
We obviously lost some focus in the second quarter as it relates to commodities.
I think more than anything else it was management direction to bring both our inside and outside sales force much more inline in the focus with what really our long term as well our short term objectives are which is to move specialty which have higher margins and can differentiate us from our competition.
As it relates to the margins there were still some margin compression in the last quarter as we did some skew rationalization to take out some of the product lines that really weren’t moving and to get our inventory better under control.
So even though our margins did improve in the last quarter you’ll see improved margin performance going forward as we have washed through some of that inventory that I just talked about.
Basically we’re looking to see margins significantly in the call it the 15% 16% level coming out of warehouse and blended margins in specialty products to be around 14% or so.
So we’re going to move in that direction and we think that we certainly could do that in the near future.
And if you could just kind of characterize how you feel today I guess on the progress that you’ve made.
You’ve obviously made some changes here it looks like its impacting the bottom line but how are you feeling about it are things moving maybe in the direction you expected or may be ahead of where you thought maybe the schedule would be if you could just kind of give us a little color around that restructuring? Well no I don’t think we’re ahead I think we’re right where we would like to be.
I’ve been very careful not to what I would call box the new CEO into a corner as it relates to strategic planning long term as he looks at the company and tries to bring in maybe a new vision for us.
So I think I’ve done much more what I would call blocking and tackling the restructuring as getting spend to control appropriately placed within the company providing more direction to the markets that we serve where we have a strategic advantage where we have critical mass where we are upgrading the management teams in some of the more important locations so that we can implement better our strategies.
We’ve taken out basically a layer in many areas of management but we’ve actually reinvested some of those towers in more people on the street either inside or outside.
So I'm pleased with where we are restructuring-wise.
I think that there will be some additional changes when the new CEO comes as he as some fresh eyes and looks at the business.
But certainly we’re back on a path that will allow the company to have positive EBITDA both short and long term.
And I'm pleased with the response that the company has had to the changes that we’ve made.
I hope that answers your question David but please if there is additional ones please ask him.
Perfect okay it certainly does and thank you for that color there.
And I guess next if you don’t mind I wanted to see what your thoughts were as far as the demand that you are seeing today.
You guys are early in the supply chain but thinking about what some of the distributors some of your customers have said lately and thinking about where the home builders are as far as new order growth seems to be slowing a bit what is your real outlook and are you seeing anything or are you maybe seeing less orders coming from your customers today from where we were earlier on outside of normal seasonality? Are you seeing anything today that gives you any concern about maybe where the market is today? Well I think first of all I certainly wouldn’t consider myself an expert in this industry but I will say this.
I think many people need to really understand the markets that this company serves and what really the profile is of who we serve.
About 50% of our business is to single family in the single family area through basically distribution to through two step.
But a good percentage of our business is also through home and remodeling and that area grows at a much lesser rate more than the 7% to 8% to 9% range.
When you look at our performance in the last quarter and you see what our specialty growth was I think it speaks very well that we’re holding our own and actually potentially growing in market share in that particular area.
When you look at the mix of both the single family and again the markets that we serve because again we’re not in Phoenix we’re not in some of the other areas where a lot of the growth is still maintaining itself and it basically goes direct or through well one step.
So we have not seen a slow down in performance I think in specialty sales especially specialty sales.
I think what you’ve seen is that we’re capturing our fair share and maybe a little bit more.
I don’t think the market is growing as fast as some of the prognosticators mentioned at the beginning of the year.
But I think the market is growing somewhere between 15% and 20% this year and we’ve got some tailwinds for us for going into the next couple of years.
So I'm optimistic but I'm not -- I don’t think that we’re seeing the 25% or 30% forecast as sometimes people put in the newspapers.
Sure I understand.
Well thanks so much.
I appreciate your time and good luck on the next quarter.
Thank you.
Hopefully there will be someone else -- I know someone else would be talking next time.
Your next question comes from the like of Mark Kaufman with Little Oak Asset.
Just wondered if you could comment on the status of the closed distribution centers? I know you’re contemplating selling them.
Well this is Doug.
The facilities they’re all as for operations are closed.
Three of them were leased facilities so we’re completely out of there and we’re in the process of working on some sublet deals for those.
The two properties that we own one of those is under contract and we expect that to close probably in November and the other property is actively being market and there is a lot of interest in that.
While it might not close this year we certainly expect it to close probably the first half of next year.
A follow on question if I could operationally the decentralization of the -- well operations basically how is that proceeding? Well again let’s be careful with the word decentralization.
Its not that we move people to the field from head quarters.
What we did was we’re taking a look at better – a better buying and better understanding of the local markets and allowing the management that manages this local markets to have more influence in the products and the types of inventory that we carry so that we can satisfy the customer.
We are spending much more time trying to understand what does the customer want and then trying the provide the products and services necessary at the local market even if that differentiates itself from a national perspective.
We’re at the beginning stages of that.
So I don’t think we’re seeing any of that of those results in any of our performance numbers.
But as we move into the next couple of years and we better focus on penetration and going deeper into the accounts that we serve as well as trying to move into new accounts and are more consistent with what they are requiring us to provide them I think you’ll see greater margins and a improved revenue performance growth than we have seen in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Weber with Robotti &amp; Company.
Howard I believe you made a comment about in Phoenix either I think you said you’re not in Phoenix or -- No we’re not we closed that facility.
It was just an example of there are some markets especially a market like Phoenix where the majority of product goes one step versus two step.
So even though there is high growth in a market like that a company like ours even when we were in that market we were not seeing the kind of growth that we would look for nor do probably most of our competitors unless they’re shipping direct.
So I was just using that as an example of what -- as we now look at the footprint of BlueLinx it’s not looking at the total market and saying that what the growth is we’re trying to segment it to the MSAs so we really can take a look at what really our growth should be considering both what goes through one step what goes through the large home builders as well as what markets we can serve best with our distribution assortment.
And I guess a follow up on that.
Can you explain why certain markets don’t use two step distribution? I wish they all did.
You take a -- where there's mass large mass home builders they have the power to go direct; they have enough inventory demand if they can skip the traditional channels; they still use us for fillers but when they use us for fillers its obviously they’re using a local distributor for that filler that we supply so as in the two step arrangement.
So we’re certainly going to do better in areas where there are smaller builders where they’re certainly more reliant on local distributors than they are on going direct for their products.
Okay.
In your comments I think you talked about highly competitive pricing environment.
I'm just curious if there is increased pricing pressure coming from is it your -- is it two step distributors that you’re competing with or are you seeing more going once -- of bypassing the two step distributor? I don’t think I made a comment about pricing -- Well yes Howard that was actually mentioned in the press release and the script.
So Alan there is pressure certainly from home centered customers that we have and then there is competition particularly between two steppers on different products.
There are some specialty product that there is also been a lot of competition on like installation and those are things that are keeping the margins compress.
Your next question is a follow up from David Williams with Williams Financial.
I appreciate you taking additional questions from me.
I wanted to see if you could kind of touch on what you’re seeing within the retail channel knowing what your mix is there.
Are you seeing a stronger demand maybe coming out of the home centers and you talked about may be 7% 8% 9% growth but it seems like we’re definitely on uptick for the repair remodel part of the industry.
Are you seeing that flow through and what are your expectations may be as we get into the next year? Well without getting specific on home centers I would say we include home centers and repair and remodeling but we have a lot of other customers that we classify in that as well.
We had definitely seen an up take in demand in that really starting kind of in the late second quarter and early in the third quarter there has definitely been an uptick.
It's not the high numbers that a Howard puts out in studies saying seeing 18% 19% 20% its nothing like that.
Sure.
But we’re definitely seeing growth in that regard and it's continued to be relatively strong in October.
There is going to be the normal seasonable slow down but October particularly repair and remodeling has continued to be fairly robust.
Great thanks and then one last one if I could here.
Can you kind of comment about maybe how lumber prices impact your business? And now that we’ve seen some stabilization in those lumber prices what does that mean for you guys? Are you looking for prices to move up as we go through the in the next year or what may be if you could kind of frame that? Well higher prices are always good for us particularly when they first start rising if we were positioned correctly with our inventory.
In the third quarter it was actually a rise in the in lumber prices.
And lumber is our largest product code that we sell so we move a lot of footage.
So there was a pricing uptick there.
Your other structural wood products primarily were down on a year-over-year basis.
In fact OSP was down significantly.
So but lumber prices thereat they’re fairly high levels right now so we’re not necessarily anticipating any material increase in 2014 in fact you could definitely see some compression and I know Howard has spend a lot of time on structural products that are structural guys he probably wants to interject on that.
Yes especially as we get into the second quarter of next year you’re going to see a fairly dramatic decrease in pricing footage may improve because the pricing was so high it will be -- Well probably more in the first quarter than the second quarter first quarter you were at particularly all structural product you were at close to eight year highs than most of the third quarter and then prices as you recall from our earnings release this second quarter that’s when they plummeted throughout the quarter.
So there still be a little bit of hangover in the second quarter but you’ll really see it in the first quarter.
But I was really talking more about margins as we try to push through the products that we brought.
Obviously our margins took a significant hit in the second quarter but the pricing was in the first quarter.
Yes and there is a certain amount of elasticity at least with the margin percentage that you’re going to get David because rising prices are good.
If you are earning 10% you’re only going to be able to continue to earn 10% up to a certain level of pricing and then that mark up is just not sustainable in the market.
I mean if the competition is not doing that and so you will see some pressure on that.
We’ve experienced some of that over some of our previous quarters here particularly when prices were rising in the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year you saw some margin compression although we were getting more margin dollars that percentage decrease.
There seem to be no further question at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Cohen for closing remarks.
I like to thank everyone for their participation today and look forward to not me but we look forward to talking to you in the future.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is (Regina) and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx's Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today Thursday February 20 2014.
Thank you.
I'd now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
Ma'am you may begin the conference.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company's website at bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's website.
This presentation includes statements about our expectation of future operational and financial performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to a number of risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to risks and uncertainties with respect to economic governmental and technological factors outside of our control and changes in the supply and/or demand for products we distribute particularly as a result of conditions in the residential housing market.
These and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
We undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Finally we undertake no obligation to review or confirm analyst's expectations or estimates that might be derived from this presentation.
This presentation includes references to adjusted EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G.
Reconciliations of net income to adjusted EBITDA and segment income to segment EBITDA are included as an appendix and are posted on our website at bluelinxco.com.
Our speakers this morning are Mitch Lewis Chief Executive Officer and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Doug will begin the call this morning with a review of the financial statements.
Then Mitch will comment will comment on the current results and add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Doug Goforth.
Thank you Maryon.
Good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to speak to you again about our business and our fourth quarter results.
This morning we reported a GAAP net loss of $2.5 million or $0.03 per diluted share for the fiscal fourth quarter of 2013 compared with a GAAP net loss of $11.4 million or $0.17 per diluted share for the fiscal fourth quarter of 2012.
As noted in our press release this morning our fourth quarter results were impacted by the following factors.
A pre-tax restructuring charge of $1.2 million or $0.01 per diluted share and a pre-tax gain of $1.3 million or $0.02 per diluted share related to the sale of the company's Sioux Falls distribution center which we closed in the third quarter of 2013.
And an income tax benefit of $8 million related to a non-operating actuarial gain associated with the company's hourly pension plan.
In fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended January 4 2014 included 14 and 53 weeks respectively compared to 13 and 52 weeks respectively for the fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 29 2012.
The 53<sup>rd</sup> week of fiscal 2013 contributed $19.2 million net sales and a pre-tax loss of $1.3 million.
Beginning on Slide 5 overall sales for the fourth quarter ended January 4 totaled $486.3 million up 10.4% or $46 million from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Specialty sales increased 10.4% year-over-year reflecting a 9.2% increase in unit volumes and 1.2% increase in product selling prices.
Specialty products comprised 56% of total sales consistent with the same period last year.
Structural product sales increased 9.7% from the same period last year.
This increase was driven by 8.3% increase in volumes.
Overall unit volumes including closed centers and the 53<sup>rd</sup> week in 2013 increased 8.8% compared to the year ago period.
On a 13-week comparable same center basis 2013 fourth quarter revenue increased to $467.1 million or 12.1% compared to the fiscal fourth quarter of 2012.
Gross profit for the fiscal fourth quarter totaled $54.3 million up 4.3% from $52.1 million in the year ago period.
Overall 2013 fiscal fourth quarter gross margins were impacted by a higher channel mix and direct and reload sales and a higher year gross structural wood-based product prices.
Gross margins for the 2013 fiscal fourth quarter of 11.2% were up compared to the full fiscal year gross margin of 10.6% and down compared to 11.8% for the same period a year ago.
Fiscal 2013 fourth quarter operating expenses were $58.1 million compared to $56.7 million for the same period a year ago.
Significant special items included in operating expenses for the 2013 fiscal fourth quarter included $1.3 million in gains from the sales of certain properties and $1.2 million in restructuring and severance cost.
Significant special items included in operating expenses in the year ago quarter included $0.2 million in gains from the sale of certain property.
Operating expenses in the year ago period also included $3.5 million in expenses related to the five closed distribution centers.
After adjusting for significant special items closed distribution centers 53<sup>rd</sup> week operating expense and a percentage of comparable same center revenue improved to 11.7% in the 2013 fiscal fourth quarter from 12.8% in the year ago period.
Reported operating loss for the 2013 fiscal fourth quarter was $3.7 million compared to $4.5 million a year ago and primarily reflects the increase in gross margin.
The fourth quarter GAAP net loss of $2.5 million or $0.03 per diluted share compares with the GAAP net loss of $11.4 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our reported net loss for the period adjusted interest expense was $7 million compared to $6.8 million in prior year period.
In current quarter net loss is after a tax benefit of approximately $8.3 million of which $8 million related to a non-operating actuarial of gain associated with company's hourly pension plan and compares to the tax provision of approximately $100 000 from the prior year period.
Our effective tax rate was 18.2% and negative 1.7% for the fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 respectively.
The effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 is largely due to full evaluation allowance recorded against our tax benefit and an allocation of income tax and other comprehensive loss for the non-operating actuarial gains associated with the company's hourly pension plan resulting in a benefit from continuing operations.
which increased from 4.24% in fiscal 2012 to 5% in fiscal 2013.
The effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 is largely due to evaluation allowance recorded against our tax benefit related to our fiscal 2012 loss.
Fiscal fourth quarter results for 2013 through the net pre-tax gains and significant special items was $1 million.
Fiscal fourth quarter results for 2012 included net pre-tax charges and significant special items was $5 million or $0.01 per diluted share.
After adjusting for significant special items 2013 fiscal fourth quarter adjusted net loss was $6.4 million or $0.08 per diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $6.7 million or $0.10 per diluted share in the same period a year ago.
The company's operating results for the 2013 and 2012 fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal full year period adjusted for significant special items are detailed in the company's press release issued this morning.
A complete reconciliation of GAAP net loss to adjusted net loss is included in both the appendix of the conference call presentation and the press release reporting tables.
Turning to cash flow on Slide 6 during the quarter BlueLinx generated approximately $31 million in cash from operating activity up approximately $13 million for the same period a year ago.
Moving to Slide 7 the combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $398.1 million a decrease of $39.8 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Net debt at the end of fourth quarter was approximately $393 million compared to approximately $372 million at December 29 2012 and $422 million at September 28 2013.
Turning to Slide 8 cash cycle days for the fourth quarter totaled 60.
That compares to 61 days sequentially and 58 days from the same period a year ago.
That concludes my review of the financial results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our new CEO Mitch Lewis.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning.
I'd like to start by updating you about the company's end markets as indicated on Slide 10.
As you likely aware in the fourth quarter the industry enjoyed continued improvement in new housing starts which also helps build the company's volume growth.
Simple family housing starts were up 11% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
In addition we enjoyed a continued modest rebound in repair and modeling activity.
For the full year single-family housing starts increased 15.5% (inaudible) remodeling market index grew by 3.8%.
The good news is that we expect these trends to continue.
We generally agree with the consensus forecast of total housing starts in 2014 in 1.1 million in a range while we're expecting residential repair and remodeling activity to grow at 4% to 5%.
Obviously the beginning of this year will be impacted by the severe weather across the country and the various growing optimism in the industry regarding our 2014 end markets.
At the international builder show earlier in the month was very busy and we were able to talk many of our vendors and customers there.
Our customers appear to have a solid backlog of construction projects which is going well for continued recovery in the market.
As the level of optimism and activity of the share really felt we were like 2004 than 2014.
So we will see how year unfolds but the sentiment is certainly very positive at the outset.
I know we've talked about the emphasis on specialty products as a mechanism to improve gross margin for BlueLinx.
I think Slide 11 is helpful in understanding the gross is impacted by not only the type of products we sell but also the gross margin within the product category as well as the distribution channel for these products.
As you can see overall gross margin for the fourth quarter was 11.2% this is better than the full year average through the third quarter of 10.5% but it's obviously not as compared to our 2012 fourth quarter gross margin performance.
The organization is continuing its emphasis on improving our gross margins.
We will continue to have specialty products but it's important that we focus on price improvement in every category of the business.
And we are actively taking steps to increase and support this focus.
For example in the last two weeks we have instituted selling price training to associates with our (pricing authority).
We are creating common analytical tools and metrics to enable managers to assess their team's pricing decisions as well as identify errors in pricing input and methodology.
And we are reassessing compensation programs to ensure they are consistent with the strategy of the business.
We'd want to see improved mix within the product channels but we will also focus on margin enhancement within the individual product categories.
Slide 12 tells the story that we have improved our adjusted EBITDA performance in the second half of 2013 compared to 2012.
A large component of this improvement the volume increase coupled with the rationalization of fixed cost out of the business.
It's great to see an improvement but I can assure you that this management team is not happy with our performance in the back half of 2013.
The organization simply is not and will not be satisfied with underperforming (inaudible).
As you know a tremendous amount of cost and energy went into setting the stage for an improved 2014.
We have done a great deal of work but there is still a lot of opportunity at BlueLinx.
Now I just finished my fourth week here so I certainly today don't have all the answers to drive this organization to financial prosperity.
But they are excluding main areas that we are focusing on in the short-term.
First we want to ensure that we have a solid capital structure to provide runway for the company as our markets recover.
And we will continue to accelerate our emphasis on working capital metrics and management.
But growing markets typically in effective paid increase working capital and we want to have the flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as the market recovery occurs.
As you would expect we will always have communication to evaluate capital structure opportunities that make sense for the company.
But I want to be clear; this is not something that we have to do in the short-term.
A solid capital foundation would certainly enable organization to focus on operational improvement and profitable growth.
Our second major focus is on gross margin enhancement.
I have already discussed with you the activities that are taking place.
On the rest of the show there will be an unrelenting emphasis on improving the overall gross margins of this business and ultimately the contribution margins of the products we sell.
I think it's important to note that our pricing is not necessarily differentiated based on actual cost to serve our customers.
So we are diving into a comprehensive contribution model that will enable us to evaluate our customers and our products to confirm that we are getting paid appropriately for providing great service and high quality products.
This analysis will drive tactical decisions we make regarding existing and targeted accounts and products.
And our third major short-term focus is on improving our operational efficiency.
We spend over a $100 million in logistics stuff annually.
So within that area we need to emphasis daily.
We are in the process of assessing whether our organizational structure and the expertise that we have align with this priority.
We will create a structure and methodology that provides a consistent best practice approach to all of our facilities.
That's our medium and short-term focus for now.
With my short tenure at BlueLinx it would of course be premature to talk about the comprehensive long-term strategy.
What I can say is I'm confident that this company has tremendous upside potential.
And we have dedicated and loyal team members or industry experts who are willing to do what it takes to get the job done.
We have the footprint that enables us to deliver outstanding service for the tremendous product range with the North American building product market with a scale that provide significant upside profitability potential as we drive our margin enhancement and operational efficiency initiatives.
And we have end markets that appear to be on the upswing.
</strong> and look forward to communicating our success to you in the months and years ahead.
With that said Regina we'd like to open it up for any questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Dustin Thomas with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi guys how are you? Great.
Good morning.
Two quick questions could you provide a little color on the price decrease in some of the structural wood-based products? The decrease is for the most part year-over-year on a quarterly basis primarily in panel products.
Okay.
Mainly OSD but plywood was also down.
Lumber prices were actually up somewhat.
Okay got you.
And then another question especially down south.
I mean do you expect this pushing things back did you think this have a marginal impact on the first quarter? Yes.
Obviously our view is that -- and our customers' view more importantly is that there will be a rebound (on its) backlog.
So it's too early to tell how the quarter will unfold but our expectations are as long as the weather holds we should have very strong back end of the quarter.
Okay I got you.
Thank you so much.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the conference back over to Mr.
Lewis for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for listening in.
We appreciate your interest in BlueLinx and look forward to talking with you in the next quarter.
Ladies and gentleman this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tonie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx's First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today May 8 2014.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Maryon Davis with BlueLinx.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Tonie.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company's website at bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's website.
This presentation includes statements about our expectations for future operational and financial performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to a number of risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to risks and uncertainties with respect to economic governmental and technological factors outside of our control and changes in the supply and/or demand for products we distribute particularly as a result of conditions in the residential housing market.
These and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
We undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Finally we undertake no obligation to review or confirm analyst's expectations or estimates that might be derived from this presentation.
This presentation includes references to adjusted net loss and adjusted EBITDA which are non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G.
Reconciliations of GAAP net loss to adjusted net loss and GAAP net loss to adjusted EBITDA are included as an appendix and are posted on our website at bluelinxco.com.
Our speakers this morning are Mitch Lewis Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Goforth Chief Financial Officer.
Doug will begin the call this morning with a review of the financial statements.
Then Mitch will comment will comment on the current results and add a final perspective before opening the call to your questions.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Doug Goforth.
Thank you Maryon.
Good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to speak to you again about our business and our first quarter results.
For those of you following along slides posted on the Investor Relations section of the BlueLinx’s website I’ll begin with slide 5.
Revenues for the first fiscal quarter ended April 5 2014 decreased 11.8% to $443.9 million from $503.2 million for the fiscal first quarter ended March 30 2013.
On a same center basis 2014 first quarter revenue decreased $29.8 million or 6.3% compared to the fiscal first quarter of 2013.
The sales decline mainly was due to weather impact on structural unit volumes as well as certain product price declines relative to year ago levels.
Gross profit for the fiscal first quarter ended April 5 2014 totaled $52.7 million down 6.7% from $56.5 million in year ago period.
Gross profit on a same center basis for 2014 fiscal first quarter decreased $0.4 million or 0.7% compared to the fiscal first quarter of 2013.
Gross margins for the 2014 fiscal first quarter improved to 11.9% compared to 11.2% for the same period a year ago.
Overall 2014 fiscal first quarter gross margins were impacted by lower structural wood-based product prices compared to last year’s first quarter elevated structural wood-based product prices and a customs rebate of $1.4 million related to the prior year which was recorded in the fiscal first quarter of 2014.
Total operating expenses were $54.3 million compared to $61.6 million for the same period a year ago.
Significant special items included in operating expenses for the 2014 fiscal first quarter included $0.2 million gain from the sale of property.
Significant special items included in operating expenses in the year ago quarter included $0.2 million gain from the sale of property and $0.09 million in restructuring and severance cost.
Operating expenses in the year ago period also included $3.6 million in expenses related to closed distribution centers.
Reported operating loss for 2014 fiscal first quarter improved $1.7 million compared to an operating loss $5.1 million a year ago and reflects a reduction in expenses that more than offset the decline in revenue and the significant special items.
Adjusted EBITDA for the 2014 fiscal first quarter improved to $1 million from an adjusted EBITDA loss of $1.4 million for the same period a year ago.
The company incurred a net loss of $8.6 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the fiscal first quarter of 2014 compared with a net loss of $12.6 million or $0.19 per diluted for the fiscal first quarter of 2013.
Fiscal first quarter results for 2014 included net pre-tax gains from significant special items of $2 million and resulted in no impact on diluted earnings per share.
Fiscal first quarter results for 2013 included net pre-tax charges from special items $0.9 million or $0.01 per diluted share.
Fiscal 2014 first quarter adjusted net loss was $5.8 million or $0.07 per diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $7.2 million or $0.11 per diluted share for the same period a year ago.
The reported net loss for the period is after interest expense of $6.5 compared to interest expense of $7.2 million in the prior year period.
The current year net loss is after a tax provision of approximately $0.3 million compared to a tax provision of approximately $0.2 million in the year ago period.
Turning to cash flow on slide six during the quarter we used approximately $46 million in cash from operating activities mainly reflecting increases in primary working capital components compares with the net cash used by operations of approximately $96 million in the first quarter of 2013.
As we've discussed on prior earnings calls.
We'll continue to tightly manage our working capital items on an ongoing basis but as always we expect to consume cash through the first half of the year as our working capital increases to support the normal seasonal increases in our business.
Moving to slide 7 we had approximately $89 million of excess availability under our revolving credit facilities as of quarter-end.
That is approximately $46 million above our minimum availability requirement on our U.S.
revolving credit facility as of April 5 2014.
The combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreements was $447.4 million.
Net debt at the fiscal first quarter ended April 5 2014 was approximately $439 million and was flat compared to the first quarter ended March 30 2013.
During this fiscal first quarter 2014 company entered into an amendment to its U.S.
revolving credit agreement with the syndicated banks led by Wells Fargo who improve liquidity and provide up to an additional $20 million in availability for strategic growth plan.
The amendment credit facility provides for up to an additional $20 million in borrowing capacity for a period up to 180 days from the effective day.
The initial funds drawn at closing of $20 million we used to pay down the existing asset-based revolving credit facility.
Turning to slide 8 cash cycle days for the first quarter ended April 5 2014 totaled 65 that compares to 60 days sequentially and 61 days for the same period a year ago.
The year-over-year increase in cash cycle days is the result of investments and inventory for both anticipated seasonal demand for our ongoing specialty product approach.
Finally I’d like to take a minute to talk about my departure.
I first joined the company in 2002 and was here when BlueLinx was formed 10 year ago on May 7 2004 the anniversary that we’ve been celebrating all week.
It’s been a privilege to work with so many dedicated people and I want to thank everyone at BlueLinx including the Board of Directors for the support they had given me over the past six years that I have served as CFO.
I will miss working with everyone a great deal.
Leaving is not a decision I make lightly rather believe BlueLinx is now on the right path and it’s the right time for me to do something new.
I also believe that Susan is going to be a great addition to the team while there remains much to accomplish I feel fortunate that we had such a dedicated team of tigers eager to support the new CFO as she steps into the role.
That concludes my remarks.
And let me turn the call over to Mitch.
Thanks Doug and good morning.
I’ll address Doug’s departure and our new CFO in a few minutes but I’d like to begin by discussing what we are seeing in our end markets.
I think it’s important to remember that while total residential housing starts to drive a significant portion of our business we are much more reliant on single family housing starts where we estimate we drive approximately 40% of our revenues.
Multi-family starts only represent 4% of our sales volume so we’ll keep the emphasis on single family housing starts to assess our performance against the residential new construction markets.
Single family housing starts for the first quarter were down 1.7% from 2013 levels while our same center sales were down 6.3% and this disparity certainly wants an explanation.
Slide 11 indicates the primary culprit.
Our two largest markets are in the Midwest and Northeast and these markets were significantly down in the first quarter due to the extreme winter these areas of the country endured.
On a consolidated basis BlueLinx lost about three full shipping days among our facilities when compared to 2013 in the first quarter due to this inclement weather.
Second major issue we had that impacted our topline was market pricing degradation with some of our structural based product categories.
This resulted from a drop in the underlying cost of these products which we estimate reduced our net sales in the quarter by approximately $12.8 million.
Today our markets appear to be rebounding while the beginning of the second quarter was a bit choppy we've begun to enjoy a seasonal uptick in our business particularly in the last couple of weeks.
And our customers remain relatively optimistic and believe that the back half of 2014 will be strong.
You can see on slide 12 the good news is that even with a sales decline our EBITDA improved from last year's levels.
And while adjusted EBITDA of $1 million is certainly not a level that the BlueLinx's team is proud of and was $3.4 million improvement from last year.
In addition it's the first positive EBITDA that we've had in our seasonally challenging first quarter since 2007.
I think most importantly we believe the fact that we were able to generate positive adjusted EBITDA on a relatively low volume bodes very well for 2014 as the seasonality of our business improves.
There were couple of main factors which drove our improvement in the first quarter.
Our overall gross margins rose as our mix of specialty products improve.
We also continue to realize the benefit from the significant fixed costs we took out of the business last year and as we discussed last quarter we anticipated that fixed cost we eliminated in 2013 would have a material positive impact on our performance and this certainly was the case.
Same-center cost for the first quarter associated with big sales procurement and administrative expenses declined by about $3.6 million compared to the first quarter in 2013 and this follows in line with our expectations of an approximate incremental $6.5 million savings in 2014 compared to 2013 from our SG&amp;A cost cutting measures.
Slide 13 indicates the gross margin improvement in our two major categories structural and specialty products.
As Doug indicated our mix shifted more to specialty products in the first quarter which helped to consolidated gross margin performance and while we continue to emphasize growth in our specialty markets the mix change in the first quarter was more a function of the declining commodity prices I alluded to previously.
And certainly our intent to continue to emphasize sales in both our structural and specialty product categories.
Slide 4 addresses several of the key activities that are ongoing at BlueLinx.
We have been very focused on the liquidity of the organization and are pleased that we ended the quarter with availability of approximately $89 million.
And this represents about $44 million increase from year-end.
As Doug discussed historically we used cash in the first two quarters of the year and generate cash in the back half of the year and we expect this trend to continue in 2014.
Well you should be aware that we are in discussions regarding financing alternatives as a mechanism to lay a foundation for the growth at BlueLinx that we anticipate in the years ahead.
We’re investing and improving our inventory process and management at BlueLinx we need to insure that we operated inventory levels with maximum efficiency that provides sufficient inventory to continue to provide great service to our customers while reducing our working capital investment.
And we will continue to keep our eye on the ball on the expense side of the business and rest assured that we will not be complacent after the disruptive cost cut that we underwent in 2013.
We also clearly understand the solid vendor relationships that are critical to our long term success we have engaged in meaningful strategic discussions with several key suppliers to help us mutually grow our businesses and strengthen our product offering into the industry.
We have now changed our operational structure and are bringing in some talented associates with strong logistics and material handling expertise and drive improvements and efficiencies in the way we interact and provide service to our customers.
And we will continue to look for opportunities to enhance our margins through product innovation cross selling and market driven initiatives.
So before we open up the call for questions.
I would like to discuss the announcement we made today that Doug is leaving BlueLinx and being replaced by Susan O'Farrell.
Doug has been in the CFO roll now for six years and he had the unique challenge of being the CFO during a (inaudible) period in our company’s history.
So build a terrific accounting finance and IT team which insured strong continuity for these functions going forward for BlueLinx.
And on behalf of entire BlueLinx’s team I want to thank Doug for all his contributions to our organization.
I am very pleased to be able to inform you that Susan O'Farrell will begin as our new CFO on May 19th.
Susan has been in the building products industry for the past 15 years holding senior finance and accounting roles at Home Depot.
Until a couple of weeks ago she was responsible for the finance function of the Home Depot At Home Services group.
And she began her tenure at Home Depot in 1999 leaving several finance accounting and strategic teams and that supported the retain organization.
Prior to Home Depot Susan held a strategic information systems role at AGL Resources and she was an associate partner in Anderson Consulting before that.
I know Susan will be a great leader for BlueLinx’s in a fantastic strategic and innovative partner to help our team assess and drive improvement in the organization.
I truly believe we are fortunate to have [commensurate] to join BlueLinx family and I really look forward to you getting to know her in the months and years ahead.
And in inclusion I have been on the job now for almost four months and while I do think we’ve made solid progress in many areas there is a lot of work and a lot of tremendous opportunity that remains here.
We are questioning everything we do at BlueLinx.
And we certainly expect to continue to improve our organization and our results in the months ahead.
So with that said Tonie we would like to open up the lines to any questions we might have.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of [Tristan Thomas] with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning [Tristan].
One really quick question about the same center cost savings; what was that number again year-over-year? Operating expenses $3.6 million.
Okay and that’s in line with what you expected or…? Yes the answer is yes.
So we anticipated annual savings in the $13 million range a little more to that.
From all the efforts that we had in 2013 we realized about half of that.
So obviously we started realizing more of that as the year progressed.
Okay got it.
And then so do you expect more cost cuttings in 2014 or do you think… No.
It’s not a key part of what we are focused on right now.
I mean we’re trying to stabilize the organization.
Ultimately this business has tremendous opportunity from an efficiency standpoint of what we are doing and we are looking to grow this business long-term.
Okay got you.
Another quick question just regarding some of the structural wood-based pricing.
What do you expect for the rest of the year do you think it's going to continue to downward or is it going to stabilize at some point?  That's great question.
I’m chuckling because we have a lot of dialogue about this internally and I can tell you generally because 10 people in the room you get a widely [group].
I will say over last few weeks the view is that it's stabilized and the short-term view is that we should see some upside on the underlying prices.
Okay.
And then just coming back around some of the [structural] revenue and how it affected gross margin.
So I’ll look at it moving forward that as that increases value so gross margin is going to be decrease even [pursue] but unsustainable just based on the product mix?  Yes.
So I’d answer that a couple of ways.
One is we put a lot of emphasis in fact elevated the role of an individual in the organization and are having a lot of dialogue about improving and enhancing margins in all of our product categories.
So we are attacking the ability to improve margins across the company and we're trying to look at leverage and opportunities that we have of our customers to move higher margin products in there.
But from a mathematical standpoint if the percentage of structural sales increases relatively to specialty sales that would drive down the overall gross margins of the business.
Okay.
In the first quarter obviously the specialty mix actually grew and we had slight growth in specialty; in terms of gross margin we continue to see improvement.
If you take out the custom rebate we were still at approximately 11.6% gross margin which again so we continue to increase that up on a quarter-over-quarter sequential basis.
So we continue to go in the right direction.
Okay sounds good.
And then obviously weather really impacted January and February and it seems to pick up in the second half of March I mean should I look for an even better second quarter than usual just because of some pent-up demand getting pushed back or you think up -- I’m just curious what you’re hearing from mass home builders?  Yes I think over the last -- so consistently and surprisingly consistently what we're hearing from our customer basis has been very optimistic.
Even in February they felt really good about the full year.
And we continue to hear that.
And as I mentioned the first couple of weeks of the second quarter felt a little choppy and we started to scratch our heads trying to ascertain whether or not their optimism would be realized but in the last two weeks or so we’ve really seen significant seasonal improvement in business and we're starting to get pretty busy.
How that ultimately will compare topline to the last year from a volume standpoint it’s a little too early to tell.
Okay.
It certainly looks like spring is here.
Finally.
Yes absolutely.
And then on just one final question just could you maybe comment a little bit on what you are doing with some of your IT initiatives where that stands? I’m sorry could you repeat the question?  Could you just comment a little bit on where maybe new IT initiative stands I mean I know you’re starting that trial of Home Depot for contract supply right?  Right.
There is actually a couple of things going on in the IT front some of which has been driven by Mitch and internal; we're working enhancing and improving our contribution margin tool and that’s ready to go live.
He talked about the elevation [of person] working on improving our overall margin performance and that’s something that we're -- we’ve been able to leverage our systems as well.
I mean we talked about our systems a lot in the past and we still continue to believe that they are among the best within our industry.
On the e-commerce side that continue to roll forward and we're actually now working with some of the dealer customers to roll that out with them.
We are operational on the home center side of the business frankly not necessarily seeing the traction that we had hope for there but the dealers are very excited about the opportunity.
The one thing I would add to Doug's comment also is we're also and we're piloting as we speak and we're going to elevate a pilot looking at let's say our outside sales reps with customer facing opportunities to both enhanced marketing and sophistication of the company but also to make it more efficient for our team to service our customer better whether it's pricing quick pricing information in the field or whether it's quick orders at the field and really strong sales tools information that's another project that we have that’s a high priority for the organization.
Okay.
And then do you have any timeframe on the completed -- or is it a little too early to talk? Yes I mean we haven't lot -- also as Doug alluded to the contribution margin tool which is of course very important is now up and running.
And so we've got that going.
We've -- as I mentioned the pilot projects are moving we're upgrading the phone system that will give us some grade analytics.
All of this will be done should all be completed by the end of the year.
But a lot of that is going out as we speak.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Kaufman with MLK Investment Management.
Good morning.
I just had a couple of questions; one what are you seeing in the home remodeling channels.
Is there anything different from last year or last quarter? And also talking about financing it seems like there is probably an opportunity here to refinance the mortgage debt and what your thoughts are there relative to today's value to June 2006 appraised value of $329 million and balance right now the $186 million on those properties? Okay.
This is Mitch; I’ll answer questions in reverse order.
As far as the financing I think I alluded to the fact that we’re out there talking to folks.
And obviously our real estate is a significant asset on our balance sheet that is under lever.
So depending on financing alternatives and as you know there were several and I think whoever would potentially be lending us money would look to the real estate as an opportunity to -- if lever the company if you want to utilizing that asset.
So the valuation from 2006 Doug correct me if I am wrong here is in the 330 range.
329.
329.
And so we have not done a recent appraisal on those properties but we have had transactions with some of those properties and the vast majority of them have sold for in excess of being appraisal.
So we feel like that appraised value without knowing for sure we feel pretty good about that appraised value.
On the home improvement market we’re making progress as you can in the repair modeling piece.
We’re making good progress as we talked about on the specialty mix for our business which goes into that segment about 40% of what we do.
Generally we felt like there were some softness in the first quarter and similarly to what we’re seeing across the company in the last two to three weeks it really feels like things are starting to pop.
And Mark this is Doug.
I would just add on the real estate side.
Of the dozen properties that we’ve sold all but one have been at or above that original 2006 appraised value and we are actually under contract on the one of the facilities out West that we closed in the third quarter of last year.
We expect that to close in the second quarter and again that’s above those original appraised value.
So I think it is important to note that we feel confident feeling the 2006 values obviously it will be reappraised with any new financing that we do.
So it’s important to note that those properties on our books are because of the bargain purchase that we got in 2004 from joint specific that met book value of just under $85 million.
So a lot of people missed when they are looking at the company and just as Mitch talked about the value of that real estate and the leverage possibilities there.
All right I can guarantee I haven’t missed that fact that’s the value in real estate.
And when I look at this company it’s almost at this price on the stock it’s a [Graham Dodd] basically analysis is we liquidated this company tomorrow it’s worth more than where the stock is trading based on appraisal values.
But I thank you for elucidating on that.
Sure.
And good luck Doug.
Thank you Mark.
And there seem to be no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Lewis for closing remark.
Well thank you.
We certainly appreciate your interest and your continued support.
And we look forward to continuing to have positive communications in the future.
Thanks.
Have a great day.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Amy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx Holdings’ Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today Thursday August 7th.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Caroline Lowden Director of Finance with BlueLinx.
Ms.
Laurence you may begin your conference.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company's website at bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's website.
This presentation includes statements about our expectations for future operational and financial performance as well as our credit agreement liquidity position and capital structure that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to a number of risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to risks and uncertainties with respect to economic governmental and technological factors outside of our control and changes in the supply and/or demand for products we distribute particularly as a result of conditions in the residential housing market.
These and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
We undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Finally we undertake no obligation to review or confirm analyst's expectations or estimates that might be derived from this presentation.
This presentation includes references to adjusted net income and adjusted EBITDA which are non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G.
Reconciliations of GAAP net income to adjusted net income and GAAP net income to adjusted EBITDA are included as an appendix and are posted on our website at bluelinxco.com.
Our speakers this morning are Mitch Lewis President and Chief Executive Officer; and Susan O'Farrell Chief Financial Officer.
Mitch will begin the call this morning with comments on the current results and a review of the business then Susan will review the financial statements before opening the call to your questions.
With that I'll turn it over to Mitch.
Thanks Caroline.
Good morning.
I wanted to walk you through a few of our recent activities as well as our performance in the second quarter before turning it over to Susan to dive into the financial highlights.
The second quarter was a solid quarter for BlueLinx with adjusted EBITDA of $10.6 million; this is an improvement of $14.1 million over last year.
And that’s our best quarter of adjusted EBITDA in the last five years.
We’re also pleased to announce net income for the quarter of $3.2 million.
These results continue the momentum we experienced in the first quarter and are a testament to the efforts of our associates who are executing our key initiatives as we work closely with our customers to drive our improving performance.
We believe our second quarter results bode well for the future particularly when you consider that we did not have significant overall market improvement propelling our results.
As we’ve discussed before while multi-unit housing starts drive a proportion of our business we’re much more reliant on single-family housing starts.
In fact we recently reanalyzed the correlation between single family housing starts and our revenue over the last nine years and found them to be highly correlated approximately 95%.
While there certainly has not been robust growth in single family housing start so far in 2014 the first half of the year was up by about 1.2%.
Reaction has come out of the blocks in the third quarter relatively strong.
Our customer base remains optimistic that there will be modest growth over the second half of 2014 and we have not seen any indicative trends that conflict with this view.
In the second quarter single family housing starts in the United States were a little better and up by about 3.5% from 2013 levels while our same center revenue was down 6.9%.
This bags the obvious question of why what happened.
Slide six indicates the primary culprit the sales of our structural products.
Our structural product revenues were down 15.3% compared to 2013 levels.
11.2% of this decline was attributable to volume.
While typically volume declines are not good news in this case we anticipated the year-over-year degradation.
As you may recall in quarter two of 2013 we were chasing market share very low prices in many of our structural products and we elected not to replicate the strategy this year.
The second major issue that impacted our top-line was market pricing degradation within some of our structural base product categories.
This resulted from a drop in the underlying cost of these products which we estimate reduced our net sales in the quarter by $12 million or approximately 4.4%.
The really good news is that even with the sales decline our adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter significantly improved from last year’s levels.
Our actual EBITDA was up $25.6 million but we believe the fairer comparison is our adjusted EBITDA which still improved by $14.1 million compared to our second quarter of 2013.
The certainly good momentum for the organizations to have EBITDA over $10 million for the quarter as well as positive net income and the fact that we achieved these results without significant tailwinds from the single family housing market certainly bodes well for the future.
But we still have a lot of opportunities as well as work to do to continue the recent improvement in our operating performance.
There were a couple of main factors which drove our $14.1 million improvement in adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter.
Our gross margins rose in both of our two major product segments while our mix also improved towards an increasing blend of higher margin specialty products.
We are avoiding taking significant long term positions in our structural products which helps mitigate the risk of a pricing collapse like the one in 2013 that had a material impact on our business.
More importantly we stopped chasing unprofitable business to drive volume and we’re moving towards an even more collaborative approach with our customers to add value while providing support to improve their performance as well.
We also continue to realize the benefit of the significant fixed costs we took out of the business last year.
As we discussed during our last two calls we anticipated that the fixed costs we eliminated in 2013 would have a material positive impact on our performance this year and this certainly has been the case.
Same-center cost for the second quarter associated with fixed sales procurement and administrative expenses declined by about $4.8 million compared to the same quarter in 2013 for the first half of 2014 we've saved $8 million in SG&amp;A costs.
This year-over-year favorable comparison will begin to decline in the third quarter as we began the significant cost cutting at the end of the second quarter in 2013.
Slide eight addresses a few key activities that are ongoing at BlueLinx.
We remain focused on several key initiatives we started earlier in the year.
We continue to make progress in our inventory process at BlueLinx.
Our inventory value as of the end of the second quarter was $50.8 million less than at the same time last year.
We will work to lower our days of inventory as we move forward but not at the expense of our customers.
We are initiating now sales inventory and operational planning process that not only helps to minimize excess inventory but also an even more importantly ensures we have sufficient inventory as needed to continue to provide great service to our customers.
Our emphasis on improving our logistics and operations continues as well.
We're beginning to see traction in several key operation activities such as fleet optimization fuel efficiency and maintenance expense.
We are also investing in our fleet of tractors which will have an immediate accretive impact to EBITDA as we replace antiquated high cost tractors with their modern equivalents.
While we continue to closely monitor our overall cost structure we also are increasing our focus on growth opportunities.
This includes taking a more local approach to our business to capitalize our markets and opportunities at a local level we will increase our emphasis on the multifamily market which currently represents only about 4% of our sales.
We are also targeting opportunities within the industrial markets that enabled BlueLinx to take advantage of our large footprint and economies of scale.
This emphasis on growth necessitates an increased partnership with our supplier base and we will be working hard to continue to develop these relationships for our mutual benefit.
As we have discussed on previous calls we are closely monitoring our liquidity at BlueLinx and we are pleased that we ended the quarter with $82 million in excess availability and we have been very active over the last few months in investigating opportunities to change our current debt structure to provide even additional liquidity for the housing market recovery we anticipate in the years ahead.
We’ve talked in the past about significant excess capital we believe we have in our own real estate portfolio you may recall from our last call that we mentioned that the 2006 appraisal of these properties was approximately $329 million even after the sale of our Portland facility that number is still around $324 million and as of the end of the second quarter we had reduced the principal on our real estate debt portfolio to under $180 million which we believe creates a significant opportunity for financing.
While we recently received proposals to refinance our real estate in excess of our existing balance under favorable terms we elected to hold off on this option for now because the prepayment penalty for an early termination of our existing real estate today could be as much as $17 million.
This penalty goes to zero on December 31 2015.
We expect utilizing the excess fair market value of our real estate to enhance our liquidity even more over the next 12 to 18 months it just doesn't makes sense to enter into this transaction right now.
I'm very pleased to announce that we anticipate extending our existing 20 million tranche A loan with our existing lenders through June of 2015.
This extension in light of our improved performance and projected results should provide BlueLinx with plenty of liquidity over the next few quarters and enable the company to be opportunistic in taking advantage of several refinancing alternatives in the future.
So in summary we continue to make good progress on the initiatives we outlined earlier in the year.
The second quarter reflects this effort as we had another solid quarter for the company.
As I have said previously it's a good quarter but we know we have a lot of work to do unleash the tremendous potential we have at Bluelinx and rest assured we are getting after it.
With that said I would like to turn it over to Susan to fill you in on the financials.
Thank you Mitch and good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to speak to you about our business and our second quarter results.
For those of you following along I will begin with slide 10.
Revenues for fiscal 2014 second quarter decreased 12.1% to 531.5 million from 604.6 million in fiscal 2013 second quarter.
On a same center basis 2014 second quarter revenue decreased $39.4 million or 6.9% compared to fiscal quarter of 2013.
The sales decline was mainly due to an impact on structural unit volumes as well as certain product price declines relative to year ago levels that Mitch walked you through.
Gross profit for the fiscal second quarter totaled $62 million an increase of $6.8 million or 12.4% from $55.2 million in the year ago period.
Gross profit on a same center basis for 2014 fiscal second quarter increased $9.9 million or 18.9% compared to the year ago period.
The gross margin rate for the 2014 fiscal second quarter improved to 11.7% compared to 9.1% for the same period a year ago.
Overall 2014 fiscal second quarter gross margins were favorably impacted by the improved structural margins and the improved sales mix to the relatively higher margin specialty products.
Total operating expenses were $52.3 million compared to $70.7 million for the same period a year ago.
We’re delivering on our restructuring expense reductions initiated last year and are tracking slightly ahead of our $13 million annualized cost reduction plan.
Overall operating expenses were down 26.1% versus the same period last year driven largely by payroll and payroll related costs as well as travel entertainment and supply reductions.
These were difficult changes for the organization to make last year but it helped us become more efficient and well prepared for the future.
On the bottom half of slide 10 you can see that GAAP net income was $3.2 million for the quarter that’s $0.04 per diluted share in Q2 as compared to a net loss of $22.3 million or $0.27 in Q2 a year ago.
Because we believe same center adjusted EBITDA is a good way to understand our business let me highlight a few adjustments as we walk from GAAP net income to adjusted EBITDA.
Key items to note in the 2014 second quarter include a $5 million gain on the sale of our Portland Oregon property.
Additionally we had a $2.8 million charge related to changes in executive leadership of this approximately $1.5 million related to stock compensation expense and the remaining balance of $1.3 million was related to severance.
In the year ago quarter we had special items and operating expenses including $7.3 million in restructuring and severance costs.
Additionally losses in the year ago period from closed distribution centers were $1.6 million.
Looking at in total adjusted EBITDA for the 2014 fiscal second quarter improved to $10.6 million from an adjusted EBITDA loss of $3.5 million from the same period a year ago an improvement of $14.1 million.
Turning to cash flow on slide 11 during the quarter we used approximately $22 million in cash from operating activities mainly reflecting increases in primary working capital components compared with a net cash used by operations of approximately $38 million second quarter 2013 we're pleased to see our seasonal tax usage improve in Q2 typically a very cash intensive quarter for our business.
On slide 12 our trailing 12 month cash cycle days are at 66 days; in dollars we're are $53 million lower from the second quarter 2013.
You may note the change in inventory days.
As the penetration of our specialty sales has increased there is an impact of almost one and half days on inventory.
As we’ve discussed on prior earnings calls we plan to tightly manage our working capital items on a going basis.
As always we expect to consume cash in the first half of the year as our working capital increases toward the normal seasonal increases of our business as well as again the increased penetration in specialty products.
Moving to slide 13 at approximately $82 million in excess availability under our asset backed revolving credit facilities at the quarter end that’s approximately $49 million above our minimum requirement of our U.S.
revolving credit facility as of July 5 2014.
The combined debt balance in our mortgage and revolving credit agreement was $463.4 million.
Net debt at the fiscal second quarter 2014 was approximately $454.7 million and is down 7.3% compared to the second quarter last year.
As Mitch alluded to we're anticipating extending our $20 million tranche A loan through summer next year.
We certainly appreciate the strong support of our lender group as we anticipate getting those details to you in the next few weeks.
Finally I’d like to take a moment to thank Board Mitch and the entire leadership team that has welcomed me into BlueLinx.
I’ve been on the job for almost three months now and I appreciate the dedication of all of our associates.
I am honestly working with so many people who have deep industry experience.
That are able to continue look at the business with the new eye.
We're questioning everything we do at BlueLinx and we expect to continue to improve our business and our results in the months ahead.
That concludes my remarks.
So with that Annie we’d like to open up the lines to any questions we might have.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from Tristan Thomas.
Good morning.
How are you? Good morning.
Couple of questions.
First regarding what really your outlook for the second half of the year in single family housing.
I know based on the Wells Fargo and HB index really jumped 53 in July.
I mean are you saying this confidence is going to actually translate to starts for the first time this year? Yes generally relying on what we’re hearing from the customers I think I alluded to this in my talk is that we feel that there will be modest improvement on the back half of the year.
I’ve had some discussions with some senior executives of supplier as well as customers and even some homebuilders.
And I would say generally it feels like the sentiment is a modest improvement in the back half of the year.
I’m certainly not as optimistic as a lot of the analysts were expecting earlier in the year but single mid-single-digit kind of growth is I think what I would say generally what people are thinking about right now.
Okay got you.
And then could you comment on the mix between structural and specialty? I mean is this where we should a little more what we should expect moving forward as you are not really chasing volume for the sake of chasing volume? The answer to that is I mean is I would say closed.
I mean if you think about the percentages they’re within generally 5% to 6% from a mix standpoint.
We are not strategically backing away from our structural products or trying to grow the business profitably everywhere more we're touching our customer base.
So what's happened I think as you look at the mix short-term is a function of the disparity from what happened last year.
So we’re strategically going to get after growing profitably both our strategic our structural business and our specialty business.
Okay.
Just kind of following question to that.
Can you maybe provide a little insight on how some of your own private label products are doing or how they did in the quarter?  Yes they continue to do well and are certainly profitable for the business and remain a strategy for the business to grow.
So I would say they continue to improve and it’s something that we will continue to emphasize going forward.
Okay.
Any new products to release there anything planned?  Nothing material that I would say; I mean obviously with all the products that we have we’re releasing new products all the time.
But there is no new huge product code or category released that has taken place in the last quarter or so.
Okay.
Jumping directions a little bit you mentioned optimizing your fleet.
Could you maybe provide a little color on that? Is that something along the lines of some type of mobile research management program or something else?  Yes.
So one of the things that we did and I am not sure that we talked about this in detail before but in the first quarter we changed the operational organization to ensure that we had good alignment throughout the organization relating to A bringing in experts for operational efficiency and making sure that we had good dialog and enhancements throughout the organization.
So we now have completed that thing.
So part of what we are doing is having a segregated look at efficiency utilizing some of the investments that we’ve made in software for example to enhance that.
So we have a team right now I have to say we are just putting together with the full team now but we are already starting to see improvement to that.
So it’s a team based approach to look at basically the customer base that we have the efficiency of the routes that we have and we continue to work to drive down those costs.
Okay.
And final question because you didn't mention IT maybe an update on some of the initiatives some of the online kind of sales programs you have set up? Sure Tristan this is Susan.
And so as we look at it in our IT space we've got some major initiatives going on certainly are investing in our phone systems and upgrades.
As you might imagine that’s the lifeblood of our business to make sure we are in constant connection with our customers.
And we are making solid progress in that with our deadlines still on track for the end of this year kind of in full redundancy in our phone system.
So right now we are tracking well of that.
In addition we've got our mobile order sales application that we're working to provide tools to our sales folks so as they are with customers they have all the information they need at their fingertips.
And we're in pilot mode in that right now getting some really good preliminary feedback but we're going to till the end of the months to see what we are in the that and see how we tweak that or fine that before we continue to roll it out.
So again preliminary feedback is a very favorable on that.
So those are two things we are very excited about.
Okay great.
Good for me right now.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Jim Fowler.
Good morning Jim.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the question.
I apologize I am going between a couple of calls.
Could you just and I know you made these comments but I'm just wondering if you might repeat your activities relative to debt refinancing and real estate and non-real estate.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
So basically what I said is that we would have been very active looking at opportunities.
And one of the obvious areas to pursue was the excess fair market value we believe we have on our real estate portfolio.
So over the last months we were looking at that and we’ve got to the point when we looked at what that value was and had an opportunity we believe to pull the trigger on that and thought was that the yield maintenance or prepayment penalty for doing that today just made no sense.
So that’s still out there either to utilize with traditional kind of mortgage-based structure or to utilize security perhaps with some other kind of capital financing.
What we have and I think we announced today and certainly announcing in our discussions today that we have discussions with our existing FILO $20 million tranche group and our confident and are looking forward to cheering the details with you in the very near future about the extension of that $20 million through June of 2015.
So we’ll continue to look at opportunities I mean we as you know we feel pretty good about the way that we’re managing our liquidity.
We’re certainly looking forward and projecting the business out and we’re comfortable we’re comfortable with the management team where we are and we know we have a lot of bullets in the gun to able to pull the trigger when we need to.
Got it.
And just one clarification question.
I believe I took a note that you’re -- the prepayment penalty is currently estimated around $17 million that’s zero at the end of 2015 correct? Correct.
I would answer that a little differently and I would say that it could be as much as $17 million.
So kind of the maximum that it could be $17 million and when we looked at the transaction well I said that was a potential we decided just didn’t make sense.
So to the extent that goes down obviously we might rethink about when and how we want to refinance the real estate that's approach that we ultimately take.
And then the slide 13 comment on the appraised value of the properties approximately $322 million that's excluding the Portland property correct?  Yeah correct.
We just wanted to do a apples to apples comparison for you as it lowers the outstanding mortgage balance so we just flowed that through for you.
Great.
Thank you both very much.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
There are no further questions at this time.
Presenters do you have any closing remarks? We just want to thank you for continue interest and support in the company.
And we look forward to talking to you in a few months with some more positive news.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's teleconference.
At this time you may all disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Angel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Ms.
Lowden you may begin.
Thank you Angel.
And good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us to the BlueLinx third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company’s website at bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website.
This presentation includes statements about our expectations for future operational and financial performance as well as our credit agreement liquidity position and capital structure that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to a number of risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to risks and uncertainties with respect to economic governmental and technological factors outside of our control and changes in the supply and/or demand for products we distribute particularly as a result of conditions in the residential housing markets.
These and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
We undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Finally we undertake no obligation to review or confirm analysts’ expectations or estimates that might be derived from this presentation.
This presentation includes references to adjusted EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Regulation G.
A reconciliation of GAAP net income to adjusted EBITDA is included as an appendix and is posted on our website at bluelinxco.com.<br> Our speakers this afternoon are Mitch Lewis Chief Executive Officer; and Susan O’Farrell Chief Financial Officer.
Mitch will begin the call this afternoon with comments on the current results and a review of the business then Susan will review the financial statements before opening the call to your questions.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Mitch.
Thanks Caroline and good afternoon.
I’d like to talk briefly about the highlights of our third quarter and what we’re focused on and then I’ll turn it over to Susan who will walk you through our financials in more detail.
Our third quarter was another solid quarter where we enjoyed improving results compared to our prior year performance.
Our adjusted EBITDA of $11.1 million is a $3.9 million or 54% improvement from Q3 in 2013.
It’s first time we had back-to-back quarters over $10 million since prior to the economic meltdown began at the end of the 2008.
We’re pleased that the initiatives and efforts of our team of providing momentum in our performance and we’re just getting started.
Our revenue for the quarter for the first time this year exceeded our 2013 performance on the same center basis as a markets continued their modest improvement.
Same center sales for the quarter were up 3% but to be fair this increase was below the single-family housing starts increase of 7.1% for the quarter.
As have been the case really all year along our specialty products have outperformed our structural products on a comparative basis.
We’ve discussed previously the long inventory position we took in structural products in the first half of 2013 and we sold off the remainder of this position in the third quarter of 2013 which again impacted our volume in structural products and led to the decline in our comparative structural sales in the third quarter of this year which were down by 1.7%.
Our specialty sales continue to performance better and increased from the third quarter of 2013 by about 6% which is pretty much on pace with the increase of single-family housing starts for the quarter.
While we did experience another decline in our structural product category I think it’s important to emphasize that our goal is not to focus on the sales of our specialty products to the detriment of our structural products.
The primary value we bring to our customers has been the full scale building products distributor with thousands of building products to sell and this requires having all the product categories our customers need which of course include structural products.
Also as we continue our focus on contribution margin rather than just gross margin we now more fully understand that the cost to serve our customers is often lower within our structural product category.
The bottom-line is that we’re working hard to profitably serve our customers with the products they want and that certainly includes our structural product category.
You should be aware that we recently initiated a strategic directional shift to increase local economy of BlueLinx.
It’s clear that our markets across United States vary greatly when you look at virtually any component of our business whether it’s our product supply base customers brand preferences fragmentation or even the competitive landscape in which operate.
So we’ve made the decision to give our local general managers more control over local decisions.
We spent two to four weeks over the last few months having detailed strategy sessions with each of our local general managers at BlueLinx.
And what is appearing after these discussions is that there is tremendous opportunity at BlueLinx to grow our business.
We plan to do this by expanding our sales to customers who we don’t currently serve while also growing the share of the existing products we offer to our current customer base.
We want to utilize the vast array of products we currently carry which today exceeds 10 000 products to capture share in our markets.
We’re also investigating adding or enhancing very light manufacturing capabilities to the organization.
These investments would have relatively small capital requirements and we believe would enable us to add more value to our customers and suppliers while increasing our returns on the products we sell.
We look forward to sharing with you some of these successes in these areas in the months ahead.
We’re also now making good progress on several of our operational initiatives.
We have initiated our sales and inventory operational process and are working to ensure we have the appropriate inventory levels required to effectively service our customers.
To be clear I would not expect a significant reduction in our inventory levels in the first few quarters of this process.
We’re actually more focused on converting our investment in underutilized inventory and to SKUs where we believe we have the opportunity to grow our volume.
We believe we’ve missed some good opportunities to grow our business simply by not having plenty of inventory in our existing products when demand spiked in certain product categories.
So for now we’ll be focused on both reducing excess inventory while making sure we have the products our customers need.
We’ve also made progress in our efforts to improve our logistics and operational performance.
Just one example of this is the work we’ve done to improve efficiency in the truck routes we used to deliver products to our customers.
In the third quarter the sales that were shipped out of our warehouses from our existing locations increased by approximately 3.2%.
At the same time we were able to ship these additional products to our customers while driving approximately 130 000 fewer miles and were able to save around $2 000 in fuel cost during the quarter.
This efficiency improvement also enabled us to decrease our seasonal outsourcing to third-party carriers during the quarter by around $150 000.
So we’re making good progress and yet significant operational efficiency opportunities remain.
As you’re likely aware now is the time of the year when our industry becomes intensely focused on next year’s housing starts.
I’ve personally talked to numerous suppliers customers and even several economists about 2015 expectations.
I can tell you at this point that economists covering residential housing tend to be much more optimistic than our suppliers and customers.
The economists tend to continue to look at how low current housing starts are relative to historical levels which of course on a state that certainly caused for optimism.
Our customers and suppliers have not been as aggressively optimistic and generally we’re hearing 2015 estimates of growth in the 5% to 10% range.
But we’re not relying on these forecasts to drive our activity of BlueLinx rather we’re planning to make sure that we’re ready to ramp up if the markets take off next year or scale down in the event the industry hits its peak level.
As we enter into the fourth quarter of 2014 we’re now looking back at a year where it appears we have turned the corner of BlueLinx.
Our year-to-date adjusted EBITDA is $22.7 million and this is after five straight years since the economic downturn in 2008 where we had little to no annual EBITDA.
We’re also entering now the fourth quarter which typically slows down and as I’m sure you’re aware is a period in which the performance in residential construction and building products is notoriously reliant on weather conditions.
And we have seen a slight softening in our markets over the last couple of weeks.
Rest assured we are discussing contingency plans in the event of another harsh winter to help mitigate the impacts of a significant volume decline.
But based on what we’re seeing today our expectations are that 2014 will be the best performance we’ve had here in many years.
And the really good news is that we’re just getting started.
And I’d like to personally thank our BlueLinx associates for their collective efforts to quickly capitalize on the opportunities we have to drive improvement at our company.
This organization scale footprint and customer and market intimacy bode well for a long and prosperous run in the years ahead as the housing market recovers.
And now I’d like to turn it over to Susan who will discuss our numbers with you in more detail.
Thank you Mitch and good afternoon everyone.
It’s a pleasure to speak to you about our business and our third quarter results.
For those of you following along I will begin with slide 10.
Revenues for the third quarter ended October 1 2014 decreased by 1% to $549.8 million from $557.9 million in the third quarter ended September 28 2013.
On a same center basis 2014 third quarter revenue increased $14.3 million or 3% compared to the fiscal third quarter of 2013.
The factors driving this increase were unit volume growth in our specialty business as well as higher pricing in plywood and lumber categories.
Gross profit for the third quarter totaled $64.6 million an increase of $2.1 million or 3% from $62.5 million in a year ago period.
Gross profit on a same center basis for 2014 fiscal third quarter increased by approximately $3 million or 5% compared to the fiscal third quarter 2013.
Gross margin increased approximately 50 basis points from the third quarter 2014 up 11.7% from 11.2% at the fiscal third quarter 2013.
Our third quarter gross margin showed improvement for the year ago period to the lower margins realized last year as we sold through inventory from the five locations we closed.
Additionally our margin improvement in the fiscal third quarter 2014 can be attributed to a higher pricing in our specialty business where we saw improvement in 15 of our 21 product categories.
As Mitch shared with you we continue to work on improving not only our gross margin but our overall bottom-line.
We have implemented the contribution margin tool that enables our general managers to have better line of sight to not only gross margin but also our cost to serve.
Our teams are working to better understand the contribution of our products in the markets we serve.
We believe this will enhance our ability to improve our business.
Our operating expenses were $58.5 million compared to $59.4 million for the same period a year ago.
As of the end of the third quarter 2014 we have fully realized the cost savings due to the restructuring last year and have actually exceeded our $13 million savings target by approximately $2 million.
We achieved these additional savings through additional expense control and G&amp;A payroll travel and supplies.
Continuing on slide 11 the company had a net loss of $0.9 million or $0.01 per diluted share for the fiscal third quarter 2014 which has improved from the net loss of $3.2 million or $0.04 per diluted share for the year ago period.
Unfortunately we had some special items recorded this quarter primarily a $2.4 million there for restructuring severance debt fees and other without which our net income would have actually been $1.5 million.
Finally adjusted EBITDA for 2014 fiscal third quarter improved to $11.1 million from an adjusted EBITDA of $7.2 million for the same period a year ago up $3.9 million or 54%.
Turning to cash flow on slide 12 our cash usage for the year-to-date improved by $17.4 million compared to year-to-date usage as of the third quarter 2013 of $17.8 million.
This decrease in cash used by operating activity primarily reflects our improved earnings over the year.
As we turn to slide 13 our working capital reflects the seasonality in our business.
Our net working capital as of the end of the quarter decreased by 2.5% compared to the prior year period due to the seasonal increase of our current maturities of long-term debt.
We anticipate current maturities of long-term debt [even slow] on a seasonal basis.
Other components of working capital increased due to demand seasonal payment patterns and increased purchasing volumes related to that increased demand.
Moving to slide 14 we had approximately $88 million of excess availability under our asset-backed revolver credit facilities as at the quarter-end.
That’s approximately $43 million above our minimum availability requirement on our U.S.
revolving credit facility as of October 04 2014.
Moving into winter and due to the seasonal nature of our business we expect lower inventory levels throughout the winter which long-term will lower our availability under our ABL as at the normal course of business.
As of October 04 2014 the combined debt balance on our mortgage and revolving credit agreement was $455.8 million.
Of that total our mortgage balance is approximately $178 million not including our prepaid principal of $4 million held by our lenders as of October 04 2014.
As we announced in August of this year we amended our U.S.
revolving credit facility in the third quarter extending the $20 million tranche A loan final maturity date to June 30 2015.
As we finished the year we continue to examine favorable debt financing refinancing structures and strategies for the future.
That concludes my remarks.
So with that Angel we’d like to open up the lines to any questions we might have.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from Tristan Thomas of Sidoti.
Hey how is everyone? Good.
Good afternoon Tristan.
A couple of questions.
First Mitch you mentioned the -- forgive me if I’m not quoting a 100% right but social products are actually at lower cost for you to get to your end consumer than specialty.
Can you maybe provide just a little bit more color on that? Yes.
So one of the things and Susan alluded to this what we’re really becoming jealous about is the contribution margin overall product offering.
And so as you look at lower gross margin products to the extent for example you’re selling carloads of those products that for example has a lower cost and then when you’re selling a much smaller proportion of the truck so you may have lower handling costs you fill up the trucks you have a lower a prudent unit of freight cost associated with the product category as well.
So we talk a lot about the gross margin of the business.
And the one thing I wanted to just highlight was that sometimes while the gross margins look lower it doesn’t necessarily tell the whole story.
Okay.
So is that simply just kind of an aspect of just as volume increases structural become more efficient? Yes.
We think generally the structural which are much more commodity-based there is a higher percentage that might be direct ship sales for example that has very low cost for the company more higher reload percentages which may have a lower cost as well.
But for sure for all of our products as volume increases the unit logistics and operational costs should decline.
Okay got you.
So what’s typically you’re going to do to try to drive structural volume? Wells one of the things that’s emphasizing it I mean we have gone through a very rigorous process just recently in our incentive programs.
We haven’t fully announced this yet to the team but we’re looking at changes that we made last year that we think were actually counterproductive and might have negatively impacted the sales of some of the products.
The focus again on looking at the overall contribution margin and the return on invested capital associated with the sales also I think drive us to better decisions and enable us to understand that we could actually can sell a lower gross margin that actually may have a higher return on invested capital for the company.
Okay.
So will it be kind of your ideal product mix in structural and specialty compared to where it is now? Yes.
And that’s a great question.
We really aren’t set we’re not setting targets so no.
Historically we’ve talked a lot about really trying to drive the organization to specialty mix.
And that’s one thing I think is important to understand that the legacy of this company certainly has been much more into the structural basis.
It’s enabling for us.
I talked about try and get more share of the wallet from our existing customer base and part of that is giving them a product that maybe a lower margin might enable us to get products at higher margin.
So really we’re trying to push down decision making into the organization enabling them to make good local decisions and they need to look at the products and the customers on an independent and local basis.
And we don’t really have a target for the mix at all.
Okay.
Just could you touch on some of the local bridge making how long has that been implemented? We really rolled it out in terms of we had a strategic Board meeting in August where we talked about it at [Linx] with the Board of Directors and basically walked away from that was the decision to go to the organization and communicate that.
So I would say that end of August we started the communication and then we had these -- there were basic three hour sessions with roughly 30 independent general managers and the senior executive teams over a three week period or so that took place mostly in mid September through mid-October.
And part of that was with the planning process we’re really pushing a local approach to our planning session and to have really a step back think line entrepreneur think like a local manager to drive value that you can provide to your customer base at the local level.
Okay.
So is it still little too early to maybe quantify any positive impact from that? Yes it’s very early.
I will tell you the organization got very excited when you take notes from each of these meetings and you just talk through all of the opportunities that we have when we start thinking locally an entrepreneurially.
I mean there is a long laundry list of opportunities that we’re driving through now as we speak.
Okay.
Moving on just towards pricing for the fourth quarter and then maybe a little more in depth about 2014.
I mean do you think we’re going to kind of stay at these levels or do you think we still have a little bit more room to run regarding just lumber and plywood? That’s a great question.
I’m smiling I have to tell you because I don’t everybody in the organization that -- the thing about commodity is it’s really challenging to know what’s going to happen.
And if you know what’s going to happen 90 days out you probably should do that [without leaving].
So I would tell you -- generally what we’re hearing is that it feels like there is some stability we might get the height of the market but I would also tell you I am really not qualified to tell exactly where it’s going over the next… I was just kind of curious if you’ve gone up… Generally the settlement is that it’s a stable to marginally declining over the next 90 days but we’ll see.
Okay.
And then just one final question.
September has been a lot of mix kind of signals; I mean what are you kind of looking for outside of the weather for the fourth quarter? I mean do you think it’s going to be kind of that slow steady pace you’ve had the rest of this year or do you think it may decline a little bit moving into ‘15? Yes.
As you know we generally don’t talk about the business going forward.
I will say the sentiment is relatively flat.
So if you’re thinking that kind of 140 000 range that feels kind of what we’re hearing from our customers and the suppliers as well.
Okay fantastic.
Thank you guys.
Yes sure.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Alan Weber of Robotti &amp; Company.
Good afternoon.
When you talked about kind of the decentralized decision making can you talk about I guess how far through that process you are? And also to really have to the general managers have they always had the proper data to kind of interpret what the kind of P&amp;L should be on incremental margins or which products are more profitable and like data or is that just more recent? No I would say the data was always here.
There has been a historical trend at the organization to make a lot of decisions as it relates to product or movement of product categories markets centrally.
The data I think was generally here -- I mean the contribution margin that both Susan and I alluded to is something that we really drove the FP&amp;A and accounting teams have done a terrific job in a very short period of time to come up with basically an internal tool that is fantastic as far as assessing product and a customer and how much the incremental sale or the loss of the sale would mean to deal from an operating profit of the company.
So the data always has been available.
What we’re really trying to do is because of -- and really it’s the nature of the market in my view.
The economy obviously as you know in this market has been terrible; it led to layoffs; tighter controls that I think you have to have in a command and control type of environment and when your markets are suffering the way that the housing market has suffered.
But the problem is that I think it’s negatively impacted the entrepreneurial spirit of the organization.
So that’s a cultural shift that we really just started in the last 90 days or so.
And with any cultural change in a large institution it takes time.
Some folks pick it up immediately and I’d say why did take it so long and some folks need a little nudging to take risk for making independent decisions.
Okay.
And then you talked about some additional manufacturing that wouldn’t require much capital.
What were you specifically talking about? Well there are few things I’m specifically thinking about.
And several of these came out in the context of our strategic sessions that we had with the general managers I mean one I could talk to is if you would think just of light what I call light fabrication maybe cutting lumber cutting metals very light manufacturing that does provide value-add to our customer base.
So this is not major capital equipment or major fundamental shift in what we’re doing but very light fabrication.
Okay.
And then my last question is over the last year or so you closed a few centers; can you talk about other what changes that you see on the distribution side in terms of competitors or vendors like that that impact you besides just housing starts? I’d tell you one of the things that came out of our discussions is the market opportunity and the market share that we have which in the marketplace is highly fragmented.
And as we were looking at the strategy for the business we also did some deep dives into the competitive landscape.
One of the things that really caught me off guard candidly that I did not expect when I came on board was half fragmented.
The wholesale distribution market is for building products.
So if we look at for example I think with the Atlantic region don’t hold me to these numbers but it was something like 70 plus competitors in that marketplace.
And so there is some consolidation that’s taking place there are some regionals that are opening up there are specialty wholesale distributors that are opening.
But I look at it and I think the organization is looking at it now is what we have tremendous scale both in products and our footprint and certainly I think we have the most knowledgeable associates in the industry.
And really the approach we’re taking is that literally our industry is a Blue Ocean for us.
And so the fact that there were trends that are changing or maybe changing from a wholesale distribution standpoint is not something that fundamentally concerns us or something that we’re really focused on.
Right now we’re focused on servicing our customers better and gaining share and there is a lot out there that we can get.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Mark Kaufman of MLK Investment Management Group.
Hi how you doing? My question is when do you hope to start to see results from this move to the regional or local market focus? And also I’ve heard this issue about BlueLinx about a year before you arrived that it had become substantially operated in light of the recession and the class and housing industry.
So I’m just curious what kind of benchmark that you have or timeframe that you have hope to see some of the improvements.
And also if you could just comment what you’re seeing in the home improvement channel for your products? Okay.
Great question on the timing.
And answer to that is immediate I mean I’ve already seen it.
Whether it’s quick reaction time to opportunities from new supply channels or supplier goods coming in where we’ve made what product managers have collaborated very closely for example with local management to make decisions about bringing new brands and products into the organization which in the past would have been a centralized decision in all likelihood pushed down to the organization and in all likelihood we had a lot of inventory in place just that we would need them.
So the problem is characterizing that right when you’re talking about a cultural shift from centralized to decentralized.
We’re not doing it intending to add headcount into the organization but the actual amount of dollars that it’s immediately going to drive or long-term it’s going to drive very hard to quantify.
But I would tell you immediately we’re seeing changes comes in the organization that are benefiting the organization a lot of which are taking blinders off with respect to opportunities a lot of creativity going on and moving faster and being more nimble locally.
The home improvement question it’s improving has improved and our expectations are it will continue to improve.
And that’s a big component of some of our specialty products going into the home improvement market.
So we expect that to continue to prove and improve and be somewhat correlated to the single-family housing starts.
And if I may I have a question maybe this is more Susan’s area.
How do you count than for additional SKUs or inventory that would be for these various regions around the country by pace and essence.
So how does that feedback into the inventory working capital? Well certainly a transition process we’re working through.
So what we’re finding is as Mitch alluded to there is some inventory markets that’s terrific inventory we just need to get it into the right market.
It might have been central to a location where we’d sell beautifully in a region nearby.
So we like what we’ve got it’s just a matter of do we have it always in the right place.
That’s something we’re working through and as you might imagine there is transition to get there.
But more importantly going forward how can we unleash that inventory against now in the right place.
We have that capital to invest more deeply into categories that are very performing in that local market and our local general managers as we know them they are very clear on what sells in their markets what brands their customers’ needs.
And so we think that will be a favorable thing for us but again some work overtime this decision is really just starting as far as then getting their feet in the water and understanding they have that capability to make those changes.
So early days but we think we’ve got inventory just kind of get it into the right market.
Yes.
And Mark I would add as any good entrepreneur would approach our GMs are thinking about how to make most money and get the most return on investment and a lot of the dialogue is not so much about expanding product categories it’s shrinking them.
So what should we be known for how we’re going to service our customers what in this market from a static standpoint is the customer base want more because of the competitive landscape in this market where our suppliers are located what makes sense for us.
So that natural as we’re talking through strategy session I was kind of like you’re walking in wanting to see if everybody was going to say hey okay triple my inventory with different product categories and where we really saw a lot of stuff and actually to the contrary people -- our team is very thoughtful about what should I have what should I be attacking and how should I strategically go after particularly identifying products to grow the business.
So I’ve got ask to this question what would your target be or hope or minimum hope of an improvement in overall margin that this might lead to and I’m not talking about your gross margin or maybe a contribution margin like you’re saying all in.
How many basis points or the percentage that you would hope that this might bring to the company? We unfortunately don’t give future forecasts.
I don’t blame you for asking good question.
You know I can’t answer.
That’s why I said hope.
We appreciate your interest Mark.
Thank you.
Rest assured we’re on it.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Thanks Mark.
Have a good afternoon.
There are no further questions.
Okay great.
Well thank you again as always for your time and for your interest.
And we certainly look forward to sharing our continued progress with you in the months ahead.
Have a great afternoon.
This does conclude the conference.
You may all disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
And Ms.
Caroline Lowden you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company's Web site at www.bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site.
Joining us on the call today are Mitch Lewis CEO; and Susan O'Farrell CFO.
Before I turn the call over to Mitch to discuss our current results I want to remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements about our future operations and financial performance.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to those identified in our press release and discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
And we undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Today's presentation includes references to non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation of these to the most comparable GAAP measure is included as an appendix and is posted on our Web site at bluelinxco.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mitch.
Thanks Caroline and good morning.
I would like to talk briefly about the highlights of our fourth quarter and what we are currently seeing in our markets and then I will turn it over to Susan who will walk you through our financials in more detail.
Our fourth quarter was another solid quarter and which we continue to enjoy momentum compared to our prior year performance.
This now makes six quarters in a row where we have outperformed our prior year adjusted EBITDA.
Our adjusted EBITDA in Q4 of $1.9 million is a $2.9 million improvement from the fourth quarter in 2013 but more importantly it's the first time we have had positive adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter since 2006.
Our full year performance of $24.6 million in adjusted EBITDA was also a nice improvement.
It's $23.3 million more than 2013 and the best annual adjusted EBITDA we had at BlueLinx since seven years.
There are many areas that we have been working on that have contributed to this improvement but I will let Susan discuss these in more detail.
While our adjusted EBITDA improved; our revenue for the quarter declined by 3% from 2013 levels on a comparable basis.
You may recall that we had an extra fiscal week of sales in 2013 with a 14-week fourth quarter which impacted our comparative sales by approximately $20 million.
We are also a little surprised by the scale of the decline in revenue during the winter holidays at the end of December.
It appears that the timing of the holidays effectively shortened our last two fiscal weeks to only 2.5 work days each week.
Even with the decline we experienced at the end of the year during the fourth quarter when you account for the additional week in 2013 our specialty product sales were relatively flat compared to 2013.
We did continue to see a degradation in our structural products during the quarter which approximated 5.5% on a comparative basis.
I wanted to reiterate again that our goal is not to focus on the sales of our specialty products to the determent of our structural products.
We are committed to being a full provider of building products to our customer base and this means that we are also committed to being an excellent supplier of structural products as well.
In 2015 our strategy is not to change the relative percentage of our structural and specialty product sales rather we will continue to focus on growing our market share with our existing product portfolio that adds value to our customer base.
Our sales in January this year were consistent with this approach as we enjoyed similar levels of year-over-year growth in both our product segments.
It now appears that our end markets will help us in 2015.
Although the weather over the last couple of weeks across the U.S.
has been challenging there definitely appears to be a higher level of confidence in the market than a year ago.
Our customers and suppliers generally feel that a continued improvement in single-family housing starts is now likely.
While we are not confident that single-family housing starts will enjoy the 20-plus-percent increase a few economists are predicting we do expect at least a modest improvement in 2015.
And January was a good reflection of this optimism and we expect this trend to continue.
We also remained focus on establishing a solid capital base for the company for the future.
Yesterday we announced the extension of our working capital facility.
Susan will discuss the details of this extension.
But I would like to thank our bank group who have consistently supported BlueLinx and again demonstrated the confidence they have in partnering with us as we continue to improve our performance in the years ahead.
Our logistics and operational emphasis also continues go gain momentum.
We are highly focused on increasing efficiency throughout our supply chain.
And we have begun the year with a 3% reduction in our logistics costs even as our sales have increased.
We have specific measurable objectives to improve several areas of our operational performance in 2015 and we are making good progress early in the year.
One area where our logistics team has been opportunistic is in connection with the decline in oil prices.
We view the recent oil decline has a positive event to the economy in general as well as the BlueLinx.
The increased cash to consumers and the resultant improvement in consumer sentiment should positively impact the general economy.
And ultimately we believe it will also positively influence remodeling activity in the U.S.
as well.
Our logistics team reacted to the oil decline and we made the decision to lock-in pricing for approximately 90% of our forecasted fuel purchases for 2015.
We anticipate this decision will save BlueLinx over $2.5 million in 2015 compared to our 2014 fuel costs.
We are also making good progress on our strategy to drive our organization toward a local market and customer orientation.
In addition to recent training for our local market leaders we have established local strategic initiatives and targets intended to effectively grow our business through local share gain.
We have also initiated a more collaborative approach with our supply base.
We understand that it is in our best interest to help improve their performance in our markets as we work together to grow their respective brands and market positions.
I now have one-year under my belt as CEO of BlueLinx and I think we have made good progress in the last 12 months.
We have made several key personnel moves at the executive level of the company.
We have changed the organizational structure to ensure an adequate focus on the opportunities we have to improve our operational investments efficiency and service.
We have embarked on a new strategic emphasis to focus our business at the local level enabling us to be closer to our customers and markets while we make decisions locally where the expertise lies.
Our emphasis in understanding our contribution by markets products and customers is leading to good decisions regarding which opportunities to pursue within the organization.
And the improvement in our results by over $23 million from last year is a good indication that these initiatives are beginning to add value.
But as I have said before we are just getting started.
The cultural change we have begun takes time to fully execute within an organization.
In addition we will continue our relentless focus on operational improvement while we garner back market share we have lost over the last several years.
At the same time we are exploring a greater emphasis on attractive markets to help drive our organic sales growth as well.
It is very clear that opportunities are abound at BlueLinx.
I'd like to personally thank our associates for their collective efforts which enabled us to enjoy the turnaround we experienced in 2014.
Our team has moved quickly to realize opportunities to drive improvement at our company but the organization understands that 2014 is now over it's the past.
So we are moving ahead and focusing on the future.
And we look forward to sharing with you more positive results from these efforts in the months ahead.
Now I would like to turn it over to Susan who will discuss our performance with you in more detail.
Thank you Mitch and good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to speak to you today about business as well as our fourth quarter and full year results.
First I would like to comment on the status of our capital structure.
As Mitch mentioned we are pleased to share with you that we successfully extended our U.S.
revolving credit facility of $447.5 million until April 2017 along with our Tranche A $20 million loan facility until June 2015.
This demonstrates the strong support of our lending partners and their continued confidence and the improvements we have made in our business.
We had approximately $60 million in excess availability under our asset-backed revolving credit facilities at the quarter-end.
That was approximately $14 million above December 2013.
As we work through establishing a strong foundational and long-term capital structure refinancing our existing mortgage is still a key part of that strategy.
The value of our real estate as appraised in 2006 was approximately $322 million.
Over the past eight years we have since sold 10 properties which collectively have sold for almost 15% over the 2006 appraised value.
Our mortgage balance as of January 3 2015 of approximately $172 million including our prepaid principle represents a significant amount of value still available to unlock.
We continue to evaluate various scenarios for ultimately replacing our real estate financing and look forward to sharing more with you on this status our mortgage in the future.
As Mitch already highlighted we are pleased with the continued progress of our business.
Our fourth quarter continuing our record of success over the past year; we delivered more EBITDA in 2014 than we did in any years since the housing downturn began in 2007.
This is a testament to the hard work of our associates and bodes well for our continued progress in the future.
Moving to Slide 11 we will take a look at our revenues and profitability for the quarter and for the year.
Because the fourth quarter of 2013 had the 53rd week we will look at the components of our revenue on a comparable net sales basis.
Revenue on a comparable basis for the fourth quarter ended January 3 2015 was down 3% or $12.9 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 of $467.1 million.
The decrease over the comparable fourth quarter 2013 was due to lower volumes in our lumber and rebar categories.
Revenue on a comparable same-center basis for the full year of 2014 was down 3.3% compared to $2.4702 billion in 2013.
On a comparable basis gross profit for the fiscal fourth quarter was $49.8 million compared to $52.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Gross margin for the fiscal fourth quarter 2014 was 11.0% down from 11.2% in the fiscal fourth quarter 2013.
This decline was primarily due to a decrease in the lumber market compared to the year ago period.
Even with the commodity price changes we are pleased to see progress against our margin enhancement activities in our specialty categories with an increase of 20 basis points from the previous year.
Fiscal 2014 gross margin was up approximately 100 basis points to 11.6 versus fiscal 2013 gross margin of 10.6.
The structural and specialty products showed improved gross margin for the year the structural gross margin is up 109 basis points and specialty gross margins up 50 basis points from fiscal 2013.
On Slide 12 our operating expenses in the fourth quarter were $50.4 million compared to $58.1 million at the same period a year ago.
The expenses for fiscal 2014 were down $34.3 million or 13.7% at $215.5 million compared to $249.8 million in fiscal 2013.
The improvement in operating expenses year-over-year is due to significantly lower restructuring costs over a hundred fewer headcounts less payroll related costs and additional cost efficiencies in the logistics area of 2014.
We continue to invest in our associates through our training initiatives and the result we had the best sales per headcount since 2007.
Further we share with you previously the addition of four Regional Directors of Logistics and we are beginning to see the impact in the [stating] [ph] within our business.
Our third-party freight costs were down approximately $4 million in 2014.
Additionally our operations team saved approximately $250 000 in 2014 specifically from initiatives to lower our rail and truck costs including renegotiation rates and auditing historical invoices.
We anticipate an additional $250 000 in savings in 2015 from these activities.
Continuing on Slide 13 when you look at margin improvement and expense control for 2014 we were able to drive adjusted EBITDA up by $23.3 million to $24.6 million that's an increase of $1.3 million in adjusted EBITDA from fiscal 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA for the 2014 fiscal fourth quarter was $1.9 million from an adjusted EBITDA loss of $1 million from the same period a year ago.
On a comparable basis Q4 2014 adjusted EBITDA was up $1.8 million from Q4 2013 adjusted EBITDA of $0.1 million excluding the 53rd week.
You will see for the quarter we had a net loss of $7.6 million or $0.09 per diluted share for the fiscal fourth quarter 2014.
Our net loss in Q4 2013 was $2.5 million but included $8 million non-cash tax benefit due to the valuation of the company's pension plan.
Without this reported gain the net loss for 2013 would have been $2.9 million lower than 2014.
Further our net loss for fiscal 2014 was $13.9 million or an improvement of $26.7 million from our fiscal 2013 net loss of $40.6 million.
Turning to cash flow on Slide 14 our cash used during the year was $20.3 million and improvement of $27.6 million compared to 2013 usage of $39.9 million.
The decrease in cash used by operating activity narrowly reflects our improved earnings over the year compared to 2013.
As a reminder our capital expenditures are relatively small $3 million for 2014 primarily these investments to tractors trailers as well as enabling work force technology solutions.
Specifically the tractor capital investment is actually close to cash flow neutral as we were able to remove older equipments from our fleet that are maintenance intensive as well as we enjoyed the better miles per gallon from the new tractors.
As we turn to Slide 15 our cash cycle days for the fiscal fourth quarter of 2014 totaled 65 days.
Period ended working capital was down $24 million from the end of the fourth quarter 2013.
As I look back on the year I'm encouraged by the traction on our strategic initiatives as I translate to our bottom-line.
That concludes my remarks.
So with that Jennifer we would like to open up the lines to any questions we might have at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Tristan Thomas with Sidoti.
Hi.
How is everyone? Nice.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
First regarding the decline in structural products was that simply you guys lost and [we do] [ph] sales through holidays or where you maybe declining some sales in each margin requirements and maybe just provide a little more color in that? Yes sure.
I mean some of it as I alluded to was in the last couple of weeks where holidays fell on a Thursday so we effectively lost the back-end of the day on Wednesday Thursday and Friday which we really didn't anticipate and obviously did not see in 2013.
We continued to do as you know in 2013 we had a strong emphasis early to move a lot of structural products build-up inventory in that regard and then had to move out of that position.
So there is an element there but at the same time Tristan it's a reflection of change in the organization to focus more on generating profitable sales irrespective of what the product categories are.
And so there is an emphasis which we are now starting to see of selling all of our products that would value-add to the customer.
So we are feeling good about what we saw in the fourth quarter and not being a continuing cycle for the company going forward.
Okay.
Are you seeing maybe any tangible results and trying to really empower your General Managers trying to get close to the local markets I mean is that really taken hold or is that something that's going to play a little more in 2015? No.
We are already starting to see results for that I would – when I think about specific examples they feel more like early in the year events.
Maybe we had competitive situations where the General Managers were quickly and we are able to either garner this year or protect the existing customers where I think in the past it might have been unworldly with the structure that we had.
So I think we are starting to see it now I think the [indiscernible] as I mentioned when you make a fundamental cultural shift like we are making in the company it does take time.
But we are now starting to see the benefits of that.
I would not say that there were a lot of EBITDA benefit or bottom line benefit in the fourth quarter of last year.
But we are certainly starting to see that now.
Okay.
Just regarding the weather I mean is that going to have a meaningful impact on your first quarter 2015 results or you can't straight it enough in regions that have may affected by all of the snow that maybe it's just going to be a slight hiccup? Yes.
So weather is always interesting because you don't really know through the quarter how it ultimately impacts you.
Generally and obviously hurts when you have the kind of weather particularly in New England area that we had.
But then it ultimately tends to drive demand.
So the question often is when the weather breaks.
From a competitive standpoint everything is down to the last year at this time it was worse across the country we have experienced so far this year.
I mean obviously pockets of the country are different.
But on a consolidated basis last year was more problematic from a weather perspective.
So that's – I know that's waffling answer.
I think the bottom-line is as I mentioned we are out of the gates and we feel good about that from a revenue standpoint in January.
And our expectations are that we are going to continue to do well this year.
But where it actually falls in the next 30 to 60 days it's hard to tell at this point.
Okay.
Just one final question just a remainder for myself if you do unlock value in the mortgage that's going to be used to pay down the revolver correct? Absolutely Tristan.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Weber with Robotti &amp; Company.
Good morning.
The first question was when you talked about the real estate I missed what you said the appraised value was? So in 2006 we had appraisals done and since then we have actually sold 10 properties.
So if you take the pro rata portion the remaining it's about $322 million would be the appraised value for 2006.
$322 million of the remaining properties? Yes.
That's already the [pro rata] [ph] amount.
And so we get comfort in that appraisal because it's certainly dated and as we look to refinance at that time do the appraisals obviously if we do the appraisals in advance we can't use them.
We will have to have appraisals done at that time.
But that's why we looked back at what we sold as property score over the past eight years just to get comfort around where that is appraisal was.
We get fresh appraisals when that's time.
Okay great.
And then my question on when you look at the quarter – when you look at the year the improvement to EBITDA basically came from the reduced expenses relative with sales kind of being down or flat just wondering what you see in 2015 in terms of revenue whether you see growth or where you really stand there and how much more reduced expenses can we see in 2015? So let me answer that in couple of ways.
Before 2014 in addition to the expense reduction we also as you know had a gross margin improvement.
So we are really focused on that.
We talk about organizationally the best opportunity when we buy so much material on such a high percentage of raw cost structure is to work hard on improving margin across the company.
So that's gross margin.
So we will continue to of course to emphasize that and as we've talked about in the past we're really focused on the contribution margin.
So we want to make sure that we are attacking opportunities that we have that are incrementally profitable to the company.
And so that's clearly an opportunity that touches not only the gross margin level but also the operating cost as well.
As it relates to 2015 we're typically reluctant to give guidance about that – about the performance of the business.
I would generally say in all areas of the business is a core value for BlueLinx to continuously improve.
And so we look at opportunities to be more efficient.
But we certainly don't have the view that there is a wide-scale opportunities to slash SG&amp;A at this business at all.
Okay.
And I've realized you don't want to give guidance particular point do you think your EBITDA actually will exceed interest expense or cash interest? Well we generally don't give guidance.
But I can tell you we understand that's very important and we're working hard to get there.
And we're making good progress and we'll continue to make good progress.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of [Mark Kaufman with Donnelley Capital] [ph].
Good morning.
As it pertains probably to the last question do you think you have the right footprint now going forward with your distribution centers.
And just thinking about it regionally is there any impact from the change in oil prices on negative basis that you might think off? Yes.
So that's a great question.
I would start with answering it this way from a footprint standpoint.
We actually last year closed two facilities that are small facilities not a lot of revenue.
And they were local regional decisions to do that.
So it didn't impact our international customer base and certainly didn't materially impact the business.
We've talked about internally and I think it's important from a perspective standpoint to understand that we view we have overall market share for a product less than 10%.
And so as you look at opportunities within BlueLinx there is tremendous market share gain opportunities.
And now that we've embarked on this new strategy to go local we are really reluctant to do a short-term full scale review of our landscape and footprint when we have such low market shares because we view the opportunities where we are we know the opportunities of where we are tremendous and so we want to – we want to really attack that.
So certainly short-term we don't view that there is going to be a whole scale review of the footprint that we have.
And we'll continue to try to gain share at the local level.
As it relates to oil in particular Texas is often talked about as a potential risk.
It is interesting when you look at the Texas market today versus where it was last time there was a buzz it's much less reliant on energy than it was before.
And in fact I think I saw just recently last couple of weeks an economist who was estimating the economy is well under 15% now reliant on energy generally.
And so there are pockets like Houston from a metropolitan standpoint that is more reliant and I think that will likely impact that economy.
But we go back to the point that we don't have a dominant market share anywhere across the country.
And so when you have such small share in a highly fragmented market our challenge to the team is irrespective of what's going on in the end markets let's grow our share and get the business bigger.
Thank you.
Sure.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have a follow-up question from Alan Weber with Robotti &amp; Company.
Hi.
When you talk about some of the cultural changes and I guess you've been there about a year you said.
So can you talk about the impact it had on revenues at the local branches where the some of the changes actually you think might have indirectly created some of the reduced revenue due to more focus on margin and like that? Yes.
I would say for sure when you compare to 2013 it did impacted our structural sales volume.
So there was in the second quarter of 2013 there is a real emphasis to grow share on commodity-based products.
And so we didn't have that in 2014.
We wanted to make sure that we were selling product that was incrementally profitable on a contribution margin basis.
So we were not – we did not have a strategy in 2014 to just grow volume.
But that I wouldn't say is a – was a local strategy change that was more of a contribution margin change and looking more closely at the potential profitability the products were least sold.
In addition there was a strategy that turned out to be a timing problem in 2013 where we beefed up on our inventory levels for short-term products that we had to move-off of.
And in doing that from a comparative basis when you look at 2014 the comparative the comparison obviously is hurt by the incremental volume that we had in 2013.
So generally I would say yes looking at product opportunities from a profitability standpoint compared to 2013 we did so less in 2014 but the fundamental cultural shift that we have in the company is not negatively impacting nor should it negatively impact our top-line growth.
And it is now – if I understood correctly is it now at the local level of the General Manager actually had – is it a real-time understanding of his gross margin and what products are profitable compared to where it was previously? Yes.
So there was – there were – there was good there is great information that we have at BlueLinx.
And they are really fantastic information systems.
And so there has always been excellent data and information that a General Manager has related to gross margin there has not been great data relative to contribution margins.
So we've kind of missed the cost to serve piece of that over last couple of years.
So that's a change that they have much better information and data than they had historically.
The second piece of it is that there were decisions that were made by the executive team to get into products or whether it was grow share or pricing that were pushed down to the organization that might make a lot of sense in certain territories within the company but don't make sense in other areas.
So that's a shift as well.
I mean we're being much more collaborative quickly with our General Managers to make sure that any decisions or opportunities that we get and we can take advantage of – from economies of scale are fully supported at the local level.
Okay.
And my final question was I asked early about the EBITDA and interest and you don't want to give projections.
I mean at the current level of housing starts can you I mean how do you see things over time? Can you improve the gross margins and gain market share to get to the point where EBITDA can exceed the interest would you need an improvement in the overall end-market? So let me answer that in two ways.
The improvement in the overall end market I know we have data on – well I think you can see at our Web site that shows generally we estimate that for every 100 000 incremental single-family housing starts that it drops approximately $22 million in EBITDA to the bottom-line.
And so obviously if the end markets – I should say when the end markets recover we feel real-good about the prospects for the company.
The second piece and we talk about this a lot internally is an incremental gross margin of 1% to the company on our scale is very important.
And so there are opportunities to do that and a lot of those opportunities also are implied within the cost to serve where we need to make sure that we're getting value for the service that we provide and there are lots of opportunities to do that.
So in addition to the operational savings that we've talked about the efficiency that we've talked about to share growth that we expect irrespective of what happens with the end markets our [choice] [ph] is to make darn sure that we improve the performance of this business that we cover certainly cover our cost of capital going forward irrespective of what the end markets do.
I appreciate the answer.
And that $22 million EBITDA relative on a 100 000 incremental housing starts is that based upon the historical value-add was that kind of the way you think you position today? No.
So we looked at our historical data going back gosh – more than seven years looking at how our business has performed because we're closely correlated to housing starts.
I would say a little bit different in 2013 because of what Mitch described was just going after our growing market share not necessarily in a profitable way.
So I would there was a decoupling in that year.
But in general we have used historical data and looked at current run rates.
And that's the information that we have on our Web site that you can look at.
Okay great.
I guess though actually with the improvements you are making one would hope that actually if you got that kind of rebound in the end-market you could do better than $22 million.
The $22 million was looking at a historical basis.
And so if we are improving the performance of the business if you want to make an assumption that as demand increases suppliers including really have an opportunity to expand margins then that would be accurate.
All right.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Alan.
[Operator Instructions] And we have no other questions in queue at this time.
Okay.
Thank you Jennifer.
And thanks for your time today and of course your continued interest in BlueLinx.
And we look forward to sharing our progress with you in the months ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlueLinx First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Caroline Lowden.
Thank you Christy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company's web site at www.bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's web site.
Joining us on the call today are Mitch Lewis Chief Executive Officer; and Susan O'Farrell Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Mitch to discuss our current results I want to remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements about our future operations and financial performance.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to those identified in our press release and discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
And we undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Today's presentation includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these to the most comparable GAAP measure is included as an appendix and is posted on our web site at bluelinxco.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mitch.
Thanks Caroline and good morning.
I would like to talk briefly about the highlights of our first quarter and what we are currently seeing in our markets and then I will turn it over to Susan who will walk you through our financials in more detail.
As you are likely aware the first quarter is typically a challenging quarter for BlueLinx in light of the seasonality of our business.
This year we got off to a great start in January and then saw the market momentum decline in February and March.
Our volume correlated closely to single-family housing starts which were up in January basically flat in February and down about 4% in March.
We ended up the quarter with our unit volume increasing 2.9% compared to the first quarter in 2014 which was pretty much in line with the modest increase in single-family housing starts.
We believe the volume increase we experienced bodes well for future market share gain as we remain focused on closely evaluating the contribution margin for our products and markets which of course means that we are no longer chasing business that is not incrementally profitable for BlueLinx.
Our adjusted EBITDA in Q1 of $400 000 was actually not a bad start to the year.
Due to our market seasonality this modest performance was still only just the second time in the last eight years that we’ve enjoyed positive adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter and the start could've been much better without the decline in many of our commodity prices during the quarter led by lumber.
The composite lumber index fell by around 10% from December's levels.
This steady decline in our commodity products in the first quarter appears to have impacted the gross margins in our structural segment by 1% from 2014 levels.
This equates to approximately $1.9 million in additional EBITDA.
The good news is the BlueLinx team expertly managed both our structural inventory and margins as we continue to enjoy incremental profitability in these products during the first quarter.
Our specialty segment continued its solid performance as well as we increased our volumes while maintaining our gross margin levels.
Our gross profit and specialty products was up $1.3 million compared to 2014 several product categories within our specialty segment performed very well in the first quarter.
This reflects the emphasis we now have on driving share gain in our local markets.
One product category that did struggle for the quarter was in the roofing market.
As many of you may have heard in the last few weeks from several roofing manufacturers they had a tough start to the year.
We were no exception to that trend as roofing products impacted specialty sales by over 1% and our specialty gross margins by 1.3%.
The good news is that even with the roofing headwinds our specialty gross profits still improved during the quarter by 4% from 2014 levels.
We previously discussed that we made the decision in the second half of 2014 to move our sales and management leaders closer to our local markets.
We remain confident that embedding our leaders close to the markets we serve will add more value to both our customer and supplier base as we identify and quickly react to local market requirements.
In fact we ran some analytics on our first quarter results to reconfirm this assumption and found that those facilities whose general managers were focused on one geographical territory and in the local market typically outperformed our other facilities.
So we continue to rapidly move forward with this initiative.
By the end of the summer we should have only five of our general managers for our 48 distribution facilities located at our headquarters in Atlanta.
This has been a large transformational shift for BlueLinx and we are confident it will pay dividends in the months ahead.
We also continue to invest in the future of BlueLinx.
We have invested $2.4 million in capital over the last three months for new tractors the new tablet-based sales information platform for outside sales representatives and the successful rollout of the new phone system that provides comprehensive analytics on sales calls as well as the network backup for each BlueLinx location.
These investments continue to support our current operating environment while creating flexibility to offer increasing levels of products and service as we grow our business in the months ahead.
Susan will discuss in more detail our capital market activities as well as our cash flow initiatives but rest assured we remain focused on managing our working capital to improve the liquidity of the business.
We brought in a sales operational and inventory planning leader to help drive our improvement in inventory management and we continue to explore alternatives for realizing the significant untapped value we have in our real estate portfolio to provide sufficient liquidity for our business growth in the years ahead.
Before I turn it over to Susan I would like to briefly discuss what we are currently seeing in our markets.
As I mentioned previously the single-family housing market did not get off to a robust start in 2015.
A 4.4% gain is not bad but remain significantly below the estimates most market experts continue to project for our industry.
Single-family housing starts would have to increase from 2014 levels by approximately 42% to reach the lowest average decade since the Census Bureau began publishing data in the late 1950s.
42% growth to only hit the average for the worst decade in the past half-century is tremendous upside and it's one of the many reasons we remain optimistic about the future of BlueLinx.
And our customers share this optimism.
The muted growth the industry experienced in the first quarter has not diminished our customers' enthusiasm for a strong second half of 2015.
The general sentiment is that the inclement weather we saw in February and March across many areas of the country has merely pushed back the building season.
It also appears that increased inventory levels at many of our customers in the first quarter are now diminishing as well.
So as you would expect we have recently seen momentum in our volumes compared to first quarter levels.
And yet our team understands that the opportunity of BlueLinx is not reliant on our end markets.
We have the scale resources and talent to take advantage of the fragmentation among our competitors and grow our market share in the building products wholesale distribution industry.
And that's exactly what we we're going to do.
And now I would like to turn it over to Susan who will discuss our financial performance with you in more detail.
Thank you Mitch and good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to speak to you today about our business as well as our first quarter results.
As Mitch already highlighted inclement weather along with the following commodity market put pressure on our business.
We were pleased to see revenues grow across the business even with this tough weather.
While single-family housing starts compared to last year decelerated at the end of the first quarter we still saw growth of 2.5% overall.
We are encouraged with these results when compared to the prior period and want to thank our associates for their continued dedication to outstanding customer service.
Moving to slide 10 we will take a look at our revenues and profitability for the quarter.
Revenue for the first quarter ended April 04 2015 was $454.9 million up $11 million or approximately 2.5% compared to the first quarter 2014 revenue of $443.9 million.
The increase year-over-year was driven by increased sales volumes in both specialty and structural product categories.
Our structural products had increased volumes in lumber and OSB partially offset by selling prices in the falling commodity market over the quarter.
Further specialty product volumes increased year-over-year.
Customer demand for exterior siding and trim was especially strong along with engineered lumber products.
We were also up in specialty lumber led by our decking products and metal products also are a notable mention.
Gross product for the first quarter was $50.2 million compared to $53.7 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Gross margin for the quarter was 11% and was impacted primarily by two major product categories.
Mitch discussed earlier the impact of falling commodity prices which account for about 75% of the gross profit decline.
In addition there were no typical winter buys this year in categories such as roofing that contributed to the remainder of the change year-over-year.
We are very encouraged that our specialty products maintained their margin level even in the face of challenging end markets.
Our net loss was $8.9 million for the first quarter 2015 compared to $8.6 million in the prior year.
On a comparison basis the first quarter 2014 benefited from a gain from the sale of properties of $200 000.
Finally adjusted EBITDA was $400 000 compared to $1 million in the first quarter of 2014.
On slide 11 our operating expenses in the first quarter were $52.3 million compared to $54.3 million for the same period a year ago.
The decrease of $2 million or 3.7% is primarily related to decreases in selling general and administrative expenses.
Overall logistics costs were down approximately 3.6% a nice improvement since our sales and unit volumes were up this quarter.
Within logistics expenses fuel costs were down by $1.4 million which is primarily achieved through lower fuel prices.
We continue to focus on expense control with headcount efficiencies achieved particularly in our back-office support function.
Moving on to discuss our debt structure on slide 12 as you recall we successfully extended our $467.5 million asset-based loan facility in February.
As of quarter end we have $78.4 million of excess availability which is a $19 million increase from year end.
As we look ahead the refinancing of our existing mortgage is an important next step.
The value of our real estate as appraised in 2006 was approximately $322 million.
Over the past nine years as we've sold properties we have found the appraisals to hold up well.
As a matter of fact the cumulative sale prices were about 15% above the previous appraised value.
We are confident that the mortgage balance of $169 million including our prepaid principal as of April 4 2015 represents a significant amount of value still available to unlock.
We are currently assessing alternatives for the replacement of our real estate financing with the intent of reducing our ABL balance to provide an increased capacity to grow our markets as the markets recover in the months ahead.
We look forward to sharing more with you on the status of our mortgage in the near future.
Turning to cash flow on slide 13 our cash usage improved by $8.6 million compared to last quarter.
The decrease in cash used was mainly driven by improvements in accounts receivable and we maintain a high quality of receivables too with strong currency and low write-offs.
Even still we have been able to increase our inventory position for the spring season.
We are ready for anticipated strong customer demand.
In total our working capital is down $6 million versus the end of the first quarter 2014.
As we wrap up our prepared comments on this call I reflect back on the past year.
As of this month I have now been with BlueLinx for almost a full year.
I'm proud to be part of such an energetic and professional team.
I am pleased with the improvements we've been able to make in our business yet know we have so much more work ahead of us.
We are working on the building blocks for our future and are encouraged for what lies ahead.
That concludes our remarks.
So with that now Christy we would like to open the lines to any questions we might have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tristan Thomas Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi Lewis.
Good morning Tristan.
A couple of questions.
When you mentioned the $2.4 million how much additional do think you're going to spend in 2015 or is that enough for now? So Tristan as we are looking at that we continue to invest in our tractor replacement program as we look at capital leases there.
What we found is in the past we didn’t think necessarily it’s the right thing to do but actually what we find is over time these are actually more fuel-efficient.
So we actually go from let’s say six miles a gallon to – we get an additional mile per gallon better mileage.
So we actually go cash flow neutral to positive as we look at replacing the tractors.
So we will be replacing tractors periodically throughout the year.
So we'll continue that program.
Yes.
I wouldn’t expect to see significant increases in capital from what we've experienced in the past.
Okay.
But then internally with things such as the phone and tablet that's effectively you have enough I guess technology in everyone's hands to kind of – now the next step is kind of maximizing its use.
Is that accurate? Yes exactly.
We don’t have anticipate any expensive IT information system computer capital expenditures like we've had.
Okay.
Can you just maybe when you mentioned the GMs that are in local markets on focus or outperforming those are the ones that aren't is there any way you can maybe quantify that? No the answer to that question is no.
I could.
It is a lot of detail and I saw in fact a scatter chart just recently that demonstrated that clearly but I don't have the absolute dollars.
But we basically looked at performance quarter-over-quarter and saw clear statistical correlation to that.
But I don't have the exact numbers I can give you for that.
Okay.
But many benefits add response time.
I'm just curious if you're seeing increased share maybe you're just maintaining...
Yes exactly.
It enables us to focus on the right products in the particular market.
It enables us to grow share as we are in front of the customers our leaders are in front of the customers.
It enables them to be nimble making decisions so we can react quickly from a trend standpoint and so all of those are values.
And of course when you think about it we had roughly half of our GMs in Atlanta just a couple years ago.
When you think about how much time that takes just being in the corporate office and all the questions that are there and the meetings and so forth we have people out in the field now focused on our customers.
Okay.
Can you maybe just reiterate when you said the housing market would have to grow 42% over the next nine months of 2015.
That would be to reach the lowest average in decade or – I'm sorry [indiscernible] that.
Yes that’s exactly right.
And to be clear if I in any way tried to indicate that we think that's going to happen that is not the case.
Okay.
We don't think it's [indiscernible] over the next nine months.
The point was simply when you look at the statistics and why the economists and industry experts continue to think that there's so much opportunity for BlueLinx in the industry because as you know we are highly correlated to single-family housing starts is just the historical relationship between where we are today and where we were.
And that statistic again is going back and looking at any decade period.
So the decade I believe was 1960s 1960 to 1969 and you took the average right and that was the lowest decade that we've had.
And we would have to grow from 2014 levels by 42% to get back to the average of the 1960s which was the lowest since 1950s.
Got you.
But you did say that in April you began to see basically some kind of delayed demand from February to March customers were a little more proactive in terms of buying than maybe they were in 2014 so it's accurate? Yes we are seeing momentum.
No doubt about that.
And just my experience with being in front of many customers over the last 30 days I mean everybody – not everybody – but it is a very consistent theme that the expectations for the rest of the year are very positive.
And our customer base talks about the fact that they got a little bit caught off guard with a decline in March generally which impacted their inventories which actually have to flow through the system before we can see the benefit of that.
But the sentiment from our customer base is very optimistic.
It remains very optimistic.
Okay.
Can you maybe provide just a little commentary on what in their eyes they are kind of expecting in terms of commodity pricing what you're looking for the rest of the year? Do you think maybe we're going to decline more? I challenged our teams because as you probably know we have 40 to 50 commodity experts throughout the organization.
And I would say if they know where commodities are going or doing their job they have got to leverage everything they have and go be a billionaire in an island somewhere.
So I'm reluctant to tell you where I think it's going to go just because I know enough to know that I don't know.
Generally what the experts internally are saying is they feel like it's flattening out.
And there is some – there obviously is a lot – it's a macro supply and demand issue but there's a lot of belief internally that the strength of the dollar might be impacting this as well as you are driving imports into the marketplace.
Historical export opportunities from domestic manufacturers don't have the same opportunity that they have.
So you're not moving internal U.S.
demand outside the country and because of the strength of the dollar and we are seeing this suppliers who weren't interested in the U.S.
markets are not going to make phone calls to us and I'm sure to other people in the industry to try to get products in.
So the strength of the dollar is definitely having an impact we believe it's having an impact.
Yes.
Just one final question regarding mortgage I mean you’ve been talking about it for a while.
What kind of I guess the moving parts involved is something where you're looking to refinance that unlocked value and effectively transition into an addition to either ABL or another credit facility? Yes.
So the intent of – and we have some alternatives on the real estate in what we ultimately do is to take any excess principle that we get and pay down the ABL.
And the intent of that is to fund the working capital for the growth that we expect to see in the company.
So that – as you know we extended the ABL first quarter.
So that obviously gives us significant latitude and we certainly appreciate the continued support from our lending group to do that.
And so the intent here is just to give us more flexibility going forward and that's what we are looking at.
Yes great.
Thank you guys.
Sure.
And your next comes from the line of Mark Kaufman LPS Partners.
Good morning.
I have a question more broader question.
Builders FirstSource buying ProBuild or merging with ProBuild and their argument about the cost savings that they will be able to pull into the business it's not clear whether they're going to be reinvesting it in margin or just trying to bring it to the bottom line.
But it brings up a question that I've heard on other calls of other competitors thinking about the business is really a regional business and I think in past calls you've made that point as well.
So I just wonder if you could comment on the industry are there really those types or do you see those types of aggregate opportunities versus keeping that focus on the regionality of the business? Yes.
So for one you should know of course that ProBuild and BFS are two large customers of ours.
They clearly are going to challenge to integrate the businesses together and that will be a significant focus of what they try to do.
The opportunities as far as my view as far as they may have on a national basis is continued alignment with the national builders and it will force more of a centralization with the national builders than may have existed historically.
So there will have to be a continued shift to try to induce the national builders to force their regions to act on a centralized platform.
So the two I think have to go hand-in-hand.
As far as taking costs out of the channel from our perspective we actually view this as a very good thing for the market and a good thing for BlueLinx.
For one with what will likely be a tumultuous situation for two to three years we think we add more value in the process and as you know manufacturers typically have a lot more incremental margin than wholesale distributors we’re squeezing for every margin dollar.
So the cost savings and I'll certainly defer to their expertise and what they are planning to do from a cost savings standpoint.
But we view that it is generally a good thing for BlueLinx and what will likely happen with the synergies that they're going to have is they are going to close down facilities that will displace people in the marketplace.
There has been some dialogue about whether it actually will create some independent lumber yards as well.
Interesting.
And on that perspective or the idea that their – you call it the centralization I was thinking about the regionalization of the business how obviously the weather affected things in the first quarter looking at some other competitors where the results were slightly better but they had a different footprint than yours.
I was wondering if you could just give us a little more granularity on where the weakness lied for you.
I imagine certainly more in the Northeast than in the Southeast and West.
Yes.
As you look at the first quarter of single-unit housing starts from the census the West actually was up 9% and the Northeast was down 13%.
If you look at BlueLinx our strength is certainly more in the Northeast than the West.
As you know we exited some facilities in 2013.
And so just that if you had shifted those 2 percentages it would have made a significant difference to the performance of BlueLinx in the first quarter.
The regional aspect of the business certainly impacts us and as you would expect we are looking closely at how we are performing in individual facilities and regions relative to what the market is doing.
If you raise additional dollars from a new ABL or new mortgage or whatever the case may be or financing for the real estate would you consider using the cash you say growth not just a high revolver leveraging your existing footprint but taking the opportunity to make additions to the footprint? Yes.
It’s not high on our radar right now.
Our market share as we talked about before and one thing that has surprised me the most about this business is just how fragmented it is.
So our market share remains – we estimate very low.
It's well under 10% market share across the country and generally that's the case in the facilities that we have.
So we are really trying to focus on opportunities that are local and relatively easy.
It's a lot easier to do a better job from an operational standpoint from a sales standpoint where you already have a footprint and a presence to go invest in new capital and try to expand the footprint.
So we have so much potential of running our business better the way it is currently constructed to take our eye off the ball I think would be a mistake.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Weber Robotti &amp; Co.
Good morning.
Just kind of as a follow-up as the ProBuild that merger takes place can you talk – not just in short term these integration issues but longer-term can you talk about from your perspective where the two-step distributor fit into that model and what risk you see from that kind of consolidation? Yes sure.
I would start and say that as I mentioned there are a large customer of ours.
So you got a 5 billion-ish company and 2 billion-ish company that we still sell a lot too right.
And so what happens is they generally tend to focus big product categories with big builders and it's what they're very good at.
So a wholesale distributor has tremendous opportunity as we realize now with these great customers of ours in selling products that they aren't focused on a national basis and probably won’t be focused on a national basis because of regional differences for those product categories.
So whereas we are not necessarily going to be a high percentage of the commodity business and currently aren’t for these customers.
We still offer tremendous opportunity to JIT products for them that are not material on a – not necessarily material relative to the other big movers on a consolidated basis.
So that’s the space that’s the opportunity that’s what we do now and we do it effectively.
Okay.
And then the other general question you talk a lot about kind of – over the last year or so kind of decentralizing the company and you talked about the general managers being in the field.
Can you talk about in general how far along in that process you are and how much more there is to go? Like that? Yes.
I would – it’s a baseball game and we are not going to extra innings we are maybe in the bottom of the second inning.
We’ve made a lot of changes with people by putting them in particular territories.
So if you look from a year ago there are definitely some changes in folks.
So some of those people are starting to just get their legs under them.
We continue to elevate the training that we have.
One of the things for example prior to last year we didn't even have our general managers I think it was like five or six years come together at least once a year to have discussions to have training to share best practices.
So those kind of things are happening.
So this past January for example we brought in our key supply base and offered them the opportunity to sit down with the general managers.
At a local level we actually had a Round Robin full-day session where they got to pick and choose who they were with and spent time to help facilitate the strength of that relationship from a supply standpoint.
So we have pretty much the structure I feel is getting close to being in place.
The real opportunity and the benefit that we’re going to see I think is just beginning is just starting.
Okay.
When you show the SG&amp;A is lower is it lower because you're taking costs out or lower because you are more focused on more profitable business that has less expense against it? We are certainly looking at total variable contribution margin which is a key focus that we've been looking at.
So I would say there is a component to that.
Additionally though certainly in back-office functions we are trying to make sure we are more efficient.
We went through a restructuring a while back.
We have maintained to keep this cost out of the business but additionally we are looking at all costs as you might imagine and making sure we stayed lean and actually we’ve been able to reduce headcount throughout the organization but specifically in back-office functions you want to make sure we are customer facing that we are taking care of those positions and supporting those positions.
But through enablement on ways to ways to have more efficient processes in the back office.
So that's a key focus too but certainly looking at variable contribution margin as an important component to that.
It’s tough to bifurcate the two right.
If you're making a decision for example with GPS phone that is very lightweight that has high gross margins but you are driving at 200 miles the decision to stop driving it was the low gross margin on that a low relative contribution margin on that truck is both a margin dialogue as well as an operational dialogue.
So by stopping doing that or changing doing that or influencing your pricing it ultimately will impact both.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Jolson with Harvest Capital.
Actually a much better first quarter result than I was fearing given all the closure days in some of your markets.
So congratulations on that.
Thank you.
Most of my questions were asked and answered but I noticed a body language difference in your prepared remarks on just the real estate situation and the refinance of the mortgage debt which is good to hear.
But since that debt becomes short-term I think it becomes a current debt pretty soon.
Is there some thought that there could be a positive announcement there by say early summer? Is that kind of the timeframe? Joe I would answer that but we are not going to give guidance on that.
I think as we’ve talked about before we still like we have alternatives.
We are confident obviously with the performance of the business going forward and we have significant value in real estate.
The timing is something we just have to look at closely because of the potential cost – higher cost by putting something in place before the end of the year.
So we are weighing our options we will continue to weigh our options and we will announce it to the public just as quickly as we can.
Was this – since you are active looking at it I assume you have some sense of kind of the interest rate within 25 basis points or 50 basis points compared to what you're paying right now.
What does that look like? Actually until we would have any kind of contractual agreement with any potential vendor we really can comment to that and we are not at that position today.
Okay.
Anyway congrats on the good first quarter and look forward to hearing how the builder seasonal quarter looks coming up in a few months.
Thank you.
Thank you Joe.
[Operator Instructions] Okay there are no questions from the phone lines at this time.
Okay.
Thanks Christy.
Thanks for your time today and of course your continued interest in BlueLinx.
And we look forward to sharing our progress with you in the months ahead.
Have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today’s call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
Ms.
Caroline Lowden.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Christy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company's web site at www.bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's website.
Joining us today on the call are Mitch Lewis Chief Executive Officer and Susan O'Farrell Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Mitch to discuss our current results I want to remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements about our future operations and financial performance.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to those identified in our press release and discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
And we undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Today's presentation includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these to the most comparable GAAP measure is included as an appendix and is posted on our web site at bluelinxco.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mitch.
Thanks Caroline.
Our second quarter began slowly due to the long winter and wet weather we experienced in certain areas of the country but we picked up momentum in June and ended the quarter with $2.9 million of net income.
Our revenue for the quarter was down modestly by 3% which was primarily attributable to two factors first we had a reduction in structural pricing by approximately 6.5% due to the continued softness in underlying commodity prices.
In addition our outdoor living sales declined as the vendor began to directly sell products to the large home center [ph] customer that were previously supplied us.
This intermediation had a meaningful impact for the quarter reducing our sales compared to last year by about 3%.
[Indiscernible] that the rest of the business helped to offset these costs and our operational and cost savings initiatives are paying dividends.
So we ended the quarter with adjusted EBITDA of $9.8 million and positive net income.
We continue to make good progress in our strategy to add stronger local market presence and autonomy to the organization it remains very clear that the national lumber yard market we serve is actually many micro markets with the same production techniques product preferences and brand awareness.
To help facilitate our ability to react quickly to our customers' needs in these local markets in addition to the movement of most of our general -- to the markets we serve we also recently flattened the organizational structure of the business.
Our Regional Vice President is responsible for all of the company sales and local financial performance now report directly to me.
This organizational change will facilitate driving profitable top line growth in addition to enabling the organizations to become more nimble in reacting to local market and customer needs.
We also have had solid progress in our operational initiatives over the last few months as evidenced by our $4.3 million decline in SG&amp;A cost compared to Q2 last year.
We have instituted several lean and cost saving projects which have helped drive our operating cost as we continue to run the business more efficiently.
This includes closely monitoring our headcount which at the end of June was approximately 4% less than our 2014 levels.
And at the same we continue to invest in the business for our future repurchase 20 new tractors in the second quarter and should have an additional 40 vehicles in place by the end of the year.
These new tractors not only reduced the average life cycle of our consolidated rolling stock but also replaced over and fuel inefficient models.
In light of the relevant softness in our revenues during the second quarter we have challenged leadership team to improve our operating performance through the cost reduction and margin enhancement activities.
And we have now identified specific opportunities to drive improved performance in these areas in the second half of the year.
Examples of initiatives we have instituted include moving to a less expensive and yet more comprehensive HR platform consolidating facility MRO spend managing our fleet maintenance internally and executing on recovery activities disrupting gross margin.
Today we still don’t see robust market conditions even with the 12% headline [indiscernible] starts figure for the quarter.
I suspect you’ve heard similar comments during the second quarter earnings season from other suppliers participating in single family new construction market.
We’re still looking into the disconnect between single family housing starts and the lack of significant growth in our end markets but at first look we believe that the construction activity associated with our residential new construction products may have a delay cycle from initial starts as recorded by the Census Bureau.
We’re looking forward to the housing start numbers ultimately correlating to a similar demand in our markets and in the interim we will keep our focus on improving our operations as we drive market share growth by effectively serving our customers at the national and local level [indiscernible] for wholesale distribution team and the building products industry.
With that said I would like to turn it over to Susan O'Farrell who will provide more color on our financial performance.
Thank you Mitch.
Good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to speak to you today about our business as well as our second quarter results.
Moving on to results for the quarter as Mitch mentioned second quarter got off to a slow start due to the wet weather in April and May in Texas and the North East and our results were due to Spring Building season delay.
We did see an improvement in June and are looking ahead to the remaining months to build upon this momentum.
Moving to slide 9 we will take a look at our revenues and profitability for the quarter and year-to-date.
Revenue for the first quarter ended July 4 2015 was $515.7 million down $16 million or approximately 3% compared to the second quarter of 2014 revenue was $531.5 million.
This decrease year-over-year was driven by structural produce decreases of 6.5% offset by structural volume decrease of approximately 1% primarily in our lumber category.
While specialty product volumes decreased 1.3% year-over-year customer demand for specialty lumber and our metal products were particularly strong each was double digit volume growth this quarter.
Our sales [indiscernible] category is up this quarter as well.
Gross profit for the first quarter is $60 million as compared to $62 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Gross margin for the quarter was 11.63% relatively flat compared to the second quarter of 2014 gross margin of 11.67%.
Structural product margins were impacted by low commodity prices particularly [indiscernible] we’re very pleased to see a strongest margin growth category in category such as outdoor living OSB [indiscernible].
In June we saw margin pick up early in the quarter due largely for balance in lumber pricing specifically southern yellow pine and OSB.
Keep in mind however that commodity pricing is still below last year's level and we expect to remain it that way until the market is stabilized.
Net income is $2.9 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $3.2 million in the prior year.
That comparative basis for the second quarter 2014 benefited from a gain of sales probably to $5 million.
Finally adjusted EBITDA was $9.8 million compared to $10.6 million in the second quarter of last year.
On slide 10 selling general and administrative expenses were down $4.3 million or 7.7% in the quarter.
This demonstrates our commitment to operational efficiency as well as our disciplined approach to withdrawing profits within our control particularly in a quarter that continues commodity pricing impact as well as the extended cold and wet weather in some regions of the country.
Specifically our logistics comps were down 1.6% in the quarter that saw a upsales of 73% of total revenue the highest percentage in our history.
These were achieved of wide variety of key expense savings in the company continued benefits from our lower fuel cost and addition to the lower overall fleet maintenance also drove a large portion of the savings.
Additional we are anniversarying restructuring cost from last year and finally as lower cost of sales related cost as of lower cost of other areas of business such as professional fees.
Moving on to discussion of our debt structure on slide 11 I would like to provide an update on the status of our mortgage.
We’re actively evaluating refinancing options for our mortgage as we move this process we must be thoughtful about the timing of any action as it relates to our fixed penalty our existing mortgage.
This penalty is approximately $1 million from the month of end of December 2015.
We’re focused on entering into an arrangement that both strengthens our business and allows us to minimize the prepayment penalty.
As a reminder we successfully extended our 467.5 million asset based loan facility in February.
The appraised value of our property as of 2006 was approximately $320 million while our outstanding mortgage balance as of July 4 2015 were $165 million or $4.2 million cash trend.
Finally as of quarter end we have $65 million of excess availability which is a $5 million increase from year-end.
Turning to cash flow on slide 12 our year-to-date operating cash usage improved by $22.1 million compared to year-to-date last year.
The decrease in cash used primarily reflected the different inventory positions as of the beginning of 2014 compared to 2015.
We had more inventory on hand at the end of 2014 and purchased less in the first six months of 2015 than we did in prior year.
In total our working capital on a trailing 12 month basis was down 4 million versus the second quarter of 2014.
In closing I want to thank the team and folks that we have in place here at BlueLinx in a challenging quarter our team has focused on our operational initiatives and continuous improvement.
So my heartfelt thanks to our customers suppliers and associates who work together to build a bright future.
That concludes my remarks.
And with that Brandy we would like to open the line to any questions that we might have.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Mark Kaufman.
I just had a question a reflection on the move toward the regionalization of decision making on sales and how you feel that has played out over the last year? Yes so we really began in earnest Mark in the beginning of the fourth quarter of last year and so we have -- we move people and certainly hire people put them locally in the marketplace.
About the cultural shift for the organization but I'm feel really good about the momentum that we have clearly the leaders that we have the sales team that we have out in the field are involved and enthused about the ability to make decisions locally and to see the organization to get it to more places as we react to what the demand of the customers and markets are.
So when I personally talk to customers without exception they said this is the right move that should have taken place long time ago and beginning to showcase the company.
Do you feel there are any other competitive pressures out there? I know your end markets are consolidating.
Yes they are particularly if you look at the national dealers there is consolidation that has taken place certainly this year.
Maybe that actually short term probably opportunity for the company as those businesses will likely be very engaged in the consolidation of the businesses.
We have great relationships and so given products really all four of those that have consolidations this year.
So what we continue to do and before with the company is focusing on those relationships that wholesale distribution adds value and of course when you look at the consolidation for these dealers they are not able to carry inventory for everyone I don’t know if they want but we provide the value of service available to lower inventory levels [Technical Difficulty] to give them more access to the products to the whole customer base.
I think we’re clearly watching it closely we’re working strategies to have multi-tier connection points and touch points with our customer base as they consolidate but long term we strongly believe that there is a place for wholesale distribution and that that will continue for years to go.
[Operator Instructions].
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Mark Kaufman.
I’ve a question about the mortgage coming up.
Is your idea that the refinance six months four months from now and that frees up more availability under the revolving credit facility or are you thinking about something potentially larger demand? Mark the mortgage is due July next year and under our revolver and we have sometimes when we want to prepay it certainly we want to refinance it before then.
The prepayment penalty expires December 31 so there is a variety of different toll-gates and tax frames that we’re working through as we look at the refinancing.
So December 31 is just one of the variety of timeframe if you look at but the mortgage is actually due July 2016.
So that’s one of the components that we’re looking at as well as the prepayment penalty.
So you might actually see there are a variety of factors that we’re looking at it as we look at that.
But certainly we believe there is value to unlock as we look at refinancing that and we want to make sure we’re responsible as we do that so we create that value but the intent is certainly to invest that back in the business and make it so we have more availability under the revolver to continue to grow the business and support that business.
So it would be going into the revolver in the [indiscernible].
If you could can you give me any kind of range where the mortgage rates are or distribution facilities these days? Or cap rates? I think it really varies on a variety of different structures.
If you look at you might imagine we will look at different things as far as the principle that we want to get as well as the flexibility on how we get it out of it and so all those different things have different rights to go along with it.
So it depends on the combination of flexibility proceeds a variety of things to go with that.
So it will be premature to give you color on that yet but will be glad to share that with you as soon as we have it.
Mark as you would imagine I mean if you want just specifically we try to evaluate the cap rate.
With the number of facilities we have across the country and different locations now within specific areas you know the value for each property is widely dispersed and so you really have to look at the business on a consolidated basis if you look at specifically at 4A real estate type lending facility.
And if I can since no one else is asking it so how does the third quarter look the other distribution companies or lumber yards are saying that they are seeing a pick up here in July that carrying forward from what was happening in June and I was wondering if you were seeing any of that? I'm sure you may be aware that we generally don’t give forward guidance on what's happening in the marketplace.
I had a feeling you might have but unfortunately we don’t give forward guidance.
[Operator Instructions].
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thank you Brandy and I know we have a lot of folks listening in so we appreciate your continued interest in BlueLinx and we look forward to sharing with you our progress in the months ahead.
So have a great end of the week.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Lowden.
You may begin.
Thank you Angel and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the BlueLinx third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the Company's Web site at www.bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Company's Web site.
Joining us on the call today are Mitch Lewis Chief Executive Officer and Susan O'Farrell Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Mitch to discuss our current results I want to remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements about our future operations and financial performance.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to those identified in our press release and discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation.
And we undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
Today's presentation includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these to the most comparable GAAP measure is included as an appendix and is posted on our Web site at bluelinxco.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mitch.
Thanks Caroline.
We’re pleased to announce today our second consecutive quarter of positive net income as we reported adjusted EBITDA of $10.5 million.
This is the first time since 2007 that we have had back-to-back quarters with positive net income while we're pleased with the progress we realized that a great deal of opportunity and hard work remains.
Our emphasis on focusing on customers and markets with higher contribution margin coupled with our expense reduction activities enabled us to perform relatively well in the third quarter while revenue for the quarter was down 5.8% 75% of this decline was directly attributable to the deflationary cost environment we experienced in our Structural Market segment during the quarter.
In fact unit volumes for our structural wood products for the quarter actually increased by 2.6%.
In addition our specialty sales increased by around 2% during the quarter when adjusting for the outdoor product disintermediation we experienced at the beginning of the year.
Our emphasis on margin enhancement continues unabated.
We now have dedicated resources driving margin improvement through analytics information system enhancements and sales and management training and we were pleased to see that this investment is paying off as our specialty product margins increased 24 basis points compared to the third quarter in 2014.
We’ve also made solid progress in our operational initiatives over the last few months.
Our $6.2 million reduction in SG&amp;A cost compared to Q3 last year is evidence of our progress on these initiatives.
We're executing on several lean and cost saving projects which have helped drive down our operating costs as we continue to run the business more efficiently.
We also continue to closely monitor our headcount which is currently 3% below levels a year ago.
In addition our emphasis on contribution margin by products customers and markets has made a meaningful impact by reducing non-profitable operational activity.
Our focus on efficiency has not detracted us from our investment in people as well as products to grow our business.
We are adding additional resources to our industrial market teams across the country as we've identified this market as a high potential growth area for BlueLinx.
In addition we have streamlined and increased our structural sales teams to take advantage of our collective expertise garner economies of scale in select purchasing skews and react quickly to our markets and customer demands.
BlueLinx has made great progress over the last several months on contribution margin assessment expense management and operational improvements.
Now we have our sights clearly set on profitably growing our business.
We're introducing new incentive programs for the sales teams enhancing their capabilities with technology realigning our organizational structure to focus on key markets.
Increasing the number of our sales associates and structuring the business for sustained growth in the months ahead.
We also continue to invest in value-added equipment as well as products that are wholesale distribution-friendly.
We are on our way and we look forward to sharing our progress with you in the months ahead.
And now I'll turn it over to Susan who will discuss our financial performance in more detail.
Thanks Mitch and good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to speak to you today about our business as well as our third quarter results.
As we move on to the results for the quarter we’re encouraged by our performance as Mitch mentioned.
This positive net income for the second quarter since 2007 we are demonstrating our ability to perform in the areas of our business that are within our control such as driving specially gross margin up or driving operating expenses down and that’s a terrific combination.
Revenue for the third quarter ended October 03 2015 was $517.8 million down $32 million or approximately 5.8 million compared to third quarter of 2014 revenue of $549.8 million.
The decrease year-over-year was primarily driven by the structural price decrease of 11.9% or $24 million.
Our structural and specialty product volume is relatively flat overall for the quarter.
Demand for our structural wood products was up 2.6% for this quarter particularly in our lumber and LSB categories.
Within our specialty products demand for specialty lumber standard plywood and structural siding was particularly strong each with double-digit volume growth this quarter.
In the Atlantic and Midwest our specialty lumber and standard plywood categories did particularly well.
The benefit we saw in both specialty lumber and standard plywood demonstrates the value-add programs we have in place for these distribution-friendly product categories.
Gross profit for the first quarter was $60.8 million compared to $64.6 million in the third quarter of 2014.
Overall gross margin for the quarter was 11.75%.
We are pleased to see specialty gross margins up 24 basis points year-over-year with the strongest margin growth in outdoor decking roofing vinyl siding and moulding categories.
These improvements are attributed to our category management sourcing and pricing teams as they work with both our supplier partners and local markets to ensure cost and pricing optimization.
Net income was $561 000 in the third quarter of 2015 compared to a net loss of $860 000 in the prior year.
This represents again the second consecutive quarter of positive net income.
We strive to control what’s within our power and our positive net income over the last two quarters demonstrates our ability to focus on running a more efficient business.
Our adjusted EBITDA of $10.5 million compared to $11.1 million in second quarter of last year.
On Slide 9 our selling general and administrative expenses were down $6.2 million or 11.1% in the quarter.
We have a core value of continues improvement and as a result we’ve been able to develop a leaner more agile corporate support function.
We strive to deliver improvements like this in all facets of our business.
With warehouse sales as a percentage of our total revenue at its highest point in our history we were really pleased to see our logistics costs were actually down 3% this quarter.
These were achieved through a wide variety of key expense savings in the Company.
We are anniversarying restructuring cost from last year and continue to recognize benefits from our lower fuel cost as well.
As we have brought in 40 new tractors over the course of the year we see that our miles per gallon from this younger and more efficient fleet.
Other areas of savings were lower sales related costs as well as lower costs in category such as professional fees.
Our net debt has continued to decline over the past year down $5.3 million from the year ago period.
Our declining mortgage balance is a key component of that reduction in debt.
Our outstanding mortgage balance as of October 03 2015 was $162.9 million net of the $5.9 million cash track.
As you are aware we are exploring our options for refinancing of our mortgage.
We have evaluated a variety of alternatives with lenders who are actively engaged in discussions with their credit teams.
As we continue to move through the refinancing process we are well positioned to avoid costly prepayment penalties which are approximately $1 million per month through the end of December 2015.
We have shared with you our historical appraised value of our properties which as of 2006 was approximately $320 million.
In connection with our refinancing efforts we recently received a desktop valuation of our real estate from a large national recognized firm.
They indicated a fair market value estimate with market rent and place in the $332 million to $352 million range.
We anticipate that this more recent and higher valuation were service well as we continue our refinancing.
Finally as of quarter end we have $64.2 million of excess availability which is a $4.2 million increase from year-end.
Turning to cash flow on Slide 11 our year-to-date operating cash usage improved by $24.8 million or 46% compared to year-to-date last year.
The decrease in cash used primarily reflected the difference in inventory positions at the beginning of 2014 compared to 2015.
We had more inventory on-hand at the end of 2014 and purchased less in first nine months of 2015 than we did in the prior year.
Our improved polices around demand planning and supply chain are benefitting us in this area.
In total our working capital on a trailing 12 month basis was down $4 million versus the end of the third quarter of 2014.
Thanks once again to our BlueLinx associates to strive to be the reason customers choose us.
Our associates focus on continuous improvement delivering on operational excellence and certainly on customer service that is above the rest.
With the ThanksGiving holidays ahead of us and on behalf of our entire team our sincere thanks go out to all of our customers and suppliers for their continued support.
That concludes our remarks.
So with that Angel we’d like to open up the lines to any questions we might have today.
[Operator Instructions] I have no questions -- I am sorry you do have a question from Alan Weber.
So I guess a quick question you talked about you went through pretty quickly but you talked about I guess now there is more of a focus on increasing profitable sales and hiring sales people please kind of explain where that actually stand as you hire people and when does that really start to show up or when do you expect that to show up in the results? Yes sure so what we've done over the last 90 to 120 days or so is evaluate as we talked about where we're making on money and one of the areas I mentioned is in the industrial market.
And there are other markets that we deem from a product standpoint are a very wholesale distribution-friendly as we called it areas where we feel like we can makes good margins and not suffer a risk of disintermediation in the future.
So we are as we speak reorganizing the team so that we have -- and are brining on leaders for example by region for those industrial market coronating a restructuring of the organization so that we have the sales teams in those markets are reporting directly to those spokes and as we speak are hiring those people.
So we have a plan at to go out over the next three to four months to hire several new sales associates to help augment that.
As a practical matter we are clearly focused on higher value-added sales so not the traditional bid ask product offering values that we have seen in the past and so Alan that takes a little bit more time so I think we'll start seeing these opportunities manifest and so on the top-line beginning and what we think about is the first quarter towards the end of the first quarter and certainly into next year.
Okay.
And I guess you're comfortable at this point that you have the right people in place to even train and hire the right sales people? Yes that's a great question yes we've really augmented our HR team which is -- and included things for example now like psychological testing of new sales reps that we really didn't have the sophistication to do historically.
We're in the process of bringing on a sales excellence leader for the organization to help not only assess existing team members but also certainly people that come in.
We have a robust process for on-boarding that we're developing for the new sales reps to make sure when we bring them in the door that they are capable to let’s say to hit the ground running when we actually deploy them out in the field.
So that's longwinded answer Alan but the real answer to the question is yes.
We feel really good about where we're driving the organization with the team that we have to enable us to bring in talented people and have them effectively improve the performance the top-line performance of the business.
Okay.
And then just I guess on the debt side when do you hope to have that in place to have most permit financing? So we've again talked consistently and Susan mentioned it just again today on this prepayment penalty that we try to navigate through.
I think we also indicated that we have in last few months engaged Estill to help us to do this so we're in the midst of it.
Unfortunately we can't report anything today but we're certainly aware of the timeline we serve don't want to get close to the termination of existing real estate Alan.
So we're aggressively pursuing it and hopefully we can be able to report something publically in the near future.
There are no further questions.
Okay.
Well thank you.
I know we have a lot of folks listening in today and appreciate it Angel and we look forward to updating you as usual on our progress in the first quarter.
Have a good week.
Thank you.
And this does concludes the conference.
You may all disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Derick and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter Investor Relations Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Natalie Poulos you may begin.
Thank you Derick and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us for the BlueLinx fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast on the company's website at www.bluelinxco.com.
The earnings release and presentation slides for this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's website.
Joining us on the call today are Mitch Lewis Chief Executive Officer; and Susan O'Farrell Chief Financial Officer.
I also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements about our future operations and financial performance.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided including but not limited to those identified in our press release and discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise them in light of new information.
And today's presentation includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.
With that I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Terrific.
Thank you Natalie and good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure for me to speak to you today and review the results of our business.
I'll go over our capital structure and financial results and then Mitch will take you through current market conditions in our strategic initiatives.
So before we dodge into the numbers I want to let you know what's going on with the timing of our earnings release and 10-K for 2015.
We previously announced entering into a term sheet with our existing real estate mortgage lender to extend the term of the mortgage.
In addition we've been in discussions with our existing ABL and franchise lenders to extend those loans as well.
We are very close to closing all three of these loans and our intent was to coordinate our 10-K filings with the loan closing.
So we expect the extensions to be implemented very soon but definitive documents have not all been signed and of course there is always a risk that we're unable to close the extensions of the loan.
The 10-K will describe our annual results as usual and the terms of these loan extensions in much more detail.
Since we have not yet filed our 10-K the numbers we will discuss today are unaudited.
We expect to file our 10-K in the very near future and of course in a timely fashion and the audited results will reflect the numbers presented today.
So without further ado on page 4 let's review some of our highlights before we get into some more detailed review of our results.
As we work through establishing a strong foundational capital structure refinancing our existing mortgage is a key part of that strategy.
The extension of our CMBS mortgage will be for three years maturing on July 1 2019 at our existing 6.35% interest rate.
We anticipate that the extended mortgage will now be interest only and will require no further monthly cash collateral to be paid.
These changes will enable the company to enhance our liquidity by approximately $15 million per year compared to 2015.
Additionally we expect that the extended mortgage will enable us to pay down the remaining principal over the course of the three years slightly with the proceeds generated from planned real estate sales or sale leaseback transaction.
We also anticipate simultaneously closing with the mortgage an extension of our ABL and Tranche A loans through July 15 2017 while reducing the loan commitments from $467.5 million to $370 million.
Our existing facility side is an excess of the anticipated working capital needs of the company so we're reducing the overall loan facility as well as to right size the loan and to avoid unused line fees.
As we look at our fourth quarter performance we were also pleased with continued progress of our business result.
Our fourth quarter contributed to our continued records of success and momentum over the past year.
We delivered more adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2015 than we did in any fourth quarter since 2006.
Adjusted EBITDA was $4.2 million up 121% from a year ago period.
Furthermore we generated more adjusted EBITDA for the full year of fiscal 2015 than any full years since the housing down term began back in 2006.
That was on 2015 fourth quarter revenues of $428.2 million with a gross margin rate of 12.02% a rate increase of 105 basis points.
All this far SG&amp;A expenses were down by $2.8 million.
For fiscal 2015 we generated $39.9 million in cash.
This is another game changer as it's the first year that we have generated cash from operation since 2009.
We are focusing on improving our operations and our working capital and we're beginning to see those results.
I'd like to note that we had approximately $52.6 million of excess availability under our ABL revolvers as the quarter end.
As we lower our working capital need which is the ABL collateral we expect the excess availability month to decrease every time yet remain enough for our business needs.
Moving to page 5 we'll take a look at our revenues and profitability for the quarter and the year.
Revenue for the fiscal fourth quarter ended with $428.2 million.
The decrease over the comparable fourth quarter was largely due to lower prices per structural product specifically in the lumber category.
Sales for full year 2015 were down $62.8 million compared to prior year predominantly driven by a decrease in structural pricing of approximately $67 million.
Gross profit for the fiscal fourth quarter is up $1.7 to $51.5 million compared to $49.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Gross margin for the fiscal fourth quarter 2015 was 12.02% up from 10.97% in the fiscal fourth quarter 2014.
This increase of 105 basis points is largely driven by our margin enhancement activities and our structural and specialty product which were up 141 and 13 basis points respectively for the quarter.
Gross margin remained relatively flat year-over-year at 11.6%.
On page 6 our total selling general and administrative expenses were down $2.8 million for the fourth quarter and down $15.4 million for the full fiscal year.
This improvement is primarily due to significantly lower fuel cost and payroll related expenses including a headcount reduction of approximately 80 people.
Turing to cash flow on page 7 our operating activities generated $39.9 million in cash during the year improving our cash utilization by $52.2 million when compared to 2014.
This improvement primarily reflects our improvement in working capital component including a decrease in inventory of $15.9 million a decrease in receivables of $6 million and an increase in accounts payable of $20.8 million.
Our cash cycle days for the fiscal fourth quarter ended 2015 totaled 64 days a one day improvement and period ending working capital improved by $32.7 million from the end of fourth quarter 2014.
With that summary of our financials I'll turn the call over to Mitch.
Thanks Susan.
Good morning.
As Susan discussed our fourth quarter created some positive momentum for BlueLinx and I'm pleased to inform you that we have seen this positive momentum continuing to the first two months of the year.
Current market activity is stronger in 2015 levels.
The lumber market has improved and our continued emphasis on margin enhancement and cost containment is paying dividends.
It's too early to determine whether the relatively mild winter has pulled forward some sales from the spring season but we're happy to see this early year market momentum.
Susan discussed our new financing in detail earlier.
In connection with this planned financing we will be in a position to sell the company's real estate going forward.
As we have discussed we had a desktop valuation in the fourth quarter of 2015 which valued our existing real estate portfolio with market rent in place in the $332 million to $352 million range.
This is well in excess of the current principal balance in our real estate mortgage of $159 million.
Before we intend to extract this excess value of the real estate to pay down the mortgage quickly and delever BlueLinx.
Similarly we are focused on evaluation our working capital particularly our inventory as another avenue to reduce the company's leverage.
We've embarked on a detailed review of all our individual products views to assess the return on our inventory.
We anticipate that this exercise will lead to a significant reduction in inventory from the elimination of certain products and that we will accomplish this without having a major impact on the service of products we provide to our customers.
We've previously announced that our board approved to reverse stock split with the attempt to comply New York Stock Exchange requirement that our shares trade above $1.
We anticipated to vote on the reverse stock split during our annual meeting at May.
If approved by our shareholders we will move to implement the reverse stock split promptly after the annual meeting in May.
We also submitted a business plan to the New York Stock Exchange outlining the actions we are taking in order to regain compliance with the $50 million market capitalization listing standard.
There has been significant activity to improve the capital structure and performance of BlueLinx over the last few months.
We continue our focus on margin enhancement activities and recently created the role of sales excellent leader to facilitate increasing our market share while providing our customer base with a world-class customer service experience.
Similarly we continue to make great progress in our logistics initiatives as we improve efficiencies associated with the delivery of our products through our customers.
And as Susan discussed we're seeing positive results from these initiatives and our operating performance.
I want to personally thank our vendors and customers who continue to partner with our organization and have helped fuel the improvement we are seeing.
And also I would like to thank the BlueLinx Team.
The collective effort of the BlueLinx associates over the last several months has been relentless and you are the reason BlueLinx continues to make progress in both our performance and culture.
Now Derick we'd like to answer any questions that our listeners may have.
[Operator Instructions] There is a question from the line of Mark Kauffman.
Good morning everyone.
I want to just commend you all on addressing the asset issue the return on assets basically by reducing the assets that you have on your balance sheet.
I think that's a terrific idea.
I just had a couple of questions about the operating side of the business and what you're seeing on lumber pricing and also plywood pricing? Yes generally the lumber market is firmed up certainly in the first couple of months of this year while the plywood market hasn't.
So we're seeing a disconnect between the two.
Clearly lumber is moving in a positive direction and again the plywood panel market is not.
Okay.
I understand that it seems that the plywood market is still being impacted by imports from Latin America not on that note.
Just to shift gears a little bit where do you see the strengths in your markets right now? And I think not just geographically but also from whether it's the retailers or the wholesalers? Yes I would say generally we're seeing strength across the board with one exception being the industrial accounts have come out softer.
Again when you look at comps certainly year-over-year we had a top winner.
All right.
So any of our customer base that is primarily involved in for example residential or even to certain extent commercial constructions are going up against some pretty favorable comps.
But generally we're seeing really across the board strength early in the year other than as I mentioned the industrial accounts that we have.
Now with the decline that you had in revenues due to deflation in the commodity products last year would you anticipate we're going to see a turn in that because of the result so far at least in lumber? Yes.
It's funny we always talk internally amongst ourselves that if we really do what was going to happen in the commodity market we're probably in the wrong profession.
As it stands today certainly we're seeing an increase in the commodity prices which from our perspective is really important.
I mean it's stable to increasing commodity prices from wherever it started is beneficial for the business.
And when you see deflation it hurts.
So as we see improvement in the market and market is strengthening it certainly gives us the ability to not only get some value from a lower cost product in our warehouse but generally you have more pricing pressure as it relates to some of the commodities.
Now back in 2012 when we had the rally in lumber prices then the old management not just the old management but the entire industry got ahead of itself as far as ordering product.
Do you see anything like that happening now? Mark I can assure that is not part of our strategy.
Again it's sending us to the point that we talked about early on certainly when I got here which is that really a cool competence ways [ph] and the value we're bringing to our customers is not timing the market.
So as we talked about we're very focused on increasing the velocity of the inventory to maximize our return.
And so we will continue to very closely watch all of our inventory in all our category.
Just on the question about the refinancing.
If you're unable to get all the documents signed by month's end do you have to come back for another extension with the SEC to get your 10-K out? I understand you have the extension now because of this shift in auditors.
So April 1 actually is our required filing timeframe and so historically we certainly filed a little bit earlier this year as we described what's going on we wanted the time the closing of this documents with our 10-K and obviously timing coordination across our variety of lenders and work because with that is a challenge.
So we're just working through that but we're still on a comps basis and anticipate filing certainly before the filing deadline.
Okay.
And so what if you don't make the filing deadline? We anticipate that we will based on I mean with the progress we've got we're making really good progress towards it.
We just don't have all of the definitive documents signed yet and we just anticipate wrapping that up in short order and so therefore we still feel comfortable and anticipate on meeting our filing deadline.
Yes our focus is on what we fully expect to happen at the moment and we hope that's a good news for you in the very near term.
I appreciate the confidence you guys have and that you're reiterating it.
I think investors will appreciate that as well.
I'll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Derick Tucker [ph] Golden.
Good morning just -- congratulations on all the progress you created.
It sounds like we'll have more new soon on your capital structure.
But in terms of the real estate portfolio as we look forward and try to understand not just that you have time and that you'll be monetizing assets and that we have desktop valuation but that you will be doing different things with different assets.
Can you give us some picture or some estimate as to what the portfolio looks like down the road? How many of your current facilities do you expect to continue to operate so we can at least we'll start with that? Yes.
So we're evaluating closely now every one of our facilities and the thought process is is it in the right place is there an opportunity to monetize it for example through a sale lease back? Should we for example just stay where we are? And it's good value for the cash flow that we have or for example is it a place that every last decade or so the real estate in the area has depreciated so much that it makes sense maybe to move it a couple of miles down the road.
The intent is not to have a huge reshuffling of the footprint of the business.
So we'll look at it where it makes sense where our return on investment is not good or whether we have consolidation opportunities and act accordingly.
So it's too early to say exactly what we're going to do.
We're looking at every facility that we're in.
Okay.
If you don't expect the footprint to change materially does that mean you do not expect any significant opportunities in terms of working capital flavor? Yes.
If I said I didn't expect it materially I apologize.
I mean I just -- it's not going to be a fundamental dramatic just to the company.
So we still intend strategically to be a full service supplier to the markets that we serve.
So the answer I guess fundamentally for the question you raise is yes we expect from our efforts to significantly reduce working capital of this business and we expect from our efforts to significantly extract a real property value both of which will be utilized to delever the company.
That's great.
Okay.
Well thanks again.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you Tucker.
The next question comes from Jim Barrett [ph].
Good morning everyone.
Mitch or Susan this maybe a question for one of you; your specialty products can you talk to us about what level of price inflation are you seeing from key vendors and your key categories and is the company if there is price inflation is the company pre-buying or simply buying in line with in market demand? Yes.
We're not seeing a lot of inflation from our supply base.
I mean there are some modest deflation opportunities particularly associated with products that are growing base.
But generally I wouldn't say there's a huge trend from an inflation area or a deflation area embodiment.
There has been a legacy in the industry of having winter buys or buying opportunities where you really load up on a ton of inventory that gives you somewhat of a discount and then you run the risk that if you're building up six months of inventory that the market moves on you to the downside which has certainly happened and obviously it's been a benefit to the offset.
We are now looking through the lens in everything we do of the investments that we have.
As we think about deleveraging the company we look very closely for example at if we're going to increase the inventory what are the terms associated with that.
And so if we feel like as you would expect if we could do something that is cash accretive that doesn't risk the company we might do something like that.
But it is not a major strategic initiative for us to load up on inventory with the anticipation that the cost of inventory has gone up.
That's helpful.
And then has the company established targets going forward of what you expect the average inventory turns to be year-after-year? Yes.
We've actually established on various specific targets as it relates to some of these product review as Susan and I have talked about as well as facility operational efficiencies.
So the answer to that question is yes.
We're trying to resolve give for guidance on that kind of information.
But it is as we have talked about is we view it to be significant for the company.
Okay.
And then finally if I strip out the pricing volatility in lumber and plywood did your sales volume can you talk about in which category your holding share versus gaining share versus losing share? Well certainly it's very fragmented market so subtract share by segment.
It's more of a challenge for us but we are looking at where we're tracking to share and looking at single family housing start as a barometer certainly looking at by region.
But what we've noticed also is we haven't necessarily seen single family housing start fully aligned with completion.
So we're continuing to track if there is a lack or delay in some of the items there.
But across the board we're monitoring those increases.
I would say specifically as we look at the quarter we've done particularly what we think in engineered lumber and so that's something we're pleased to see the growth there as well as growing in some other categories in our interior products.
So we're pleased with those growths.
Well thank you both.
Sure.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions.
Okay.
Well thank you very much.
Again we appreciate your support of BlueLinx and we are looking forward to announcing the completion of our refinancing and certainly filling our first quarter results with you as well.
Have a great day.
Thank you for your participation of today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
