Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Carnival Corporation First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
This is Howard Frank.
With me this morning is Micky Arison our Chairman and CEO; Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations; and David Bernstein our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We're going to continue our normal presentation this morning and I'm going to have David take you through the first quarter color and some details.
Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that some of the remarks on this conference call will be forward-looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statements in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost will be in local currency unless otherwise noted as this is a much better indicator of business trend.
For the first quarter our earnings per share were $0.19.
The first quarter came in at the high end of our December guidance which was $0.15 to $0.19 per share.
The $0.02 per share improvement versus the midpoint of our December guidance was driven primarily by $0.04 of favorability in a variety of cost areas partially offset by higher-than-expected fuel prices which cost an additional $0.02.
Now let's look at our first quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 5% for the first quarter with substantially all of the increase coming from our European Australian and Asian brands or as we call them our EAA brands.
Our EAA brands grew 11% while our North American brands grew 2%.
Our net revenue yields increased 2% in the first quarter driven by a net ticket yield increase of 3%.
Our EAA brands were up 9% as a result of yield improvements in South America.
The South American market has rebounded nicely from last year's challenging season which was impacted by significant increases in industry capacity.
Our North American brands were down 1% driven by lower yields in the Caribbean due to higher industry capacity which we discussed on the last conference call and is limited to winter deployment.
In net onboard and other yields we experienced a 1% decline.
The decrease resulted from favorable items we recognized in the first quarter of last year related to minimum guarantee payments for calendar year 2009 and a litigation settlement.
We mentioned these items during the first quarter conference call last year.
If we normalize the prior year for these items net onboard and other yields for the first quarter would have been up 3%.
On the cost side net cruise costs excluding fuel per available lower berth day were up 3% versus the prior year.
However if you exclude the gain on the sale of P&amp;O Cruises' Artemis which reduced net cruise costs last year by $44 million the net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD would have been in line with the prior year.
Fuel prices this quarter were up 9% and that cost us about $0.05 per share.
In summary we were pleased with the first quarter EPS of $0.19 which is up from last year's adjusted EPS of $0.12 before the favorable impact of $0.10 of unusual items.
Now turning to our 2011 outlook.
I will skip -- the full year outlook.
I'll skip the net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
On the cost side for the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD are forecasted to be flat to up 1%.
This guidance is about 0.5 percentage point higher than we forecasted in December.
We're seeing some more inflationary pressures than we thought in crew travel food cost freight and other areas.
Most of these items are simply a function of rising fuel and commodity prices.
However our current guidance for interest expense taxes and depreciation is lower which balances out the additional inflationary pressures.
One final note.
I wanted to share with you our current rules of thumb about the impact that current fuel prices and currency can have on our results.
To start with a 10% change in the price of fuel for the remaining three quarters of 2011 represents a $0.22 per share impact.
With respect to FX movement a 10% change in all currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar also for the remaining three quarters of 2011 would also impact our P&amp;L by $0.22 per share.
At this point I will turn the call back to Howard.
Thank you David.
Taking a look at the overall booking picture for the remainder of 2011.
On a fleet-wide basis occupancies are slightly lower than a year ago on a 5% increase in cruise capacity for the next three quarters.
Ticket pricing for these bookings are nicely higher than last year.
Looking at this picture by major markets North American occupancy is slightly behind last year with nicely higher pricing.
Bookings for Europe Asia or Australia or EAA are also slightly behind last year at higher prices.
So that is the snapshot of the fleet-wide bookings status for 2011 as it stands today.
Turning to booking patterns since the start of the year.
On a fleet-wide basis bookings have been running higher year-over-year at higher prices.
In North America wave bookings have paced the increased North America capacity with solid increases in year-over-year pricing.
In EAA bookings have also been higher during this wave period at approximately the same year-over-year prices but the booking pace has lagged the 8.6% capacity increase for the period.
EAA bookings and pricing during this period have been affected by the recent disruptions in the European brands the Middle East and North African itineraries for the remainder of the year.
As a result of political unrest in that area of the world there was significant slowdown in demand for these itineraries with the related effect on booking volumes and pricing.
Over 280 cruises had to be reset and we estimate the cost of this disruption to our business will be approximately $44 million of lost revenue or about $0.05 a share for the year.
So summarizing the booking pattern during the wave season so far demand for our cruises continues to be strong.
At this time stronger in North America than in the EAA markets.
The EAA brands in particular Costa and Ibero Cruises have felt the effects of the political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and the related disruptions to their itineraries which visit these countries.
In terms of our revised guidance for 2011 the effect of the increase in fuel prices has cost us $355 million or $0.45 per share.
Currency exchange rates have benefited us by $0.09 per share and the cost of disruption in the itineraries which call on the Middle East and North Africa is approximately $0.05 a share.
These factors have caused us to take our earnings guidance down for 2011 to a range of $2.55 to $2.65 a share or a midpoint of $2.60.
Now some color on each of the quarters.
Fleet-wide capacity in the second quarter of 2011 will be 5% higher 2.9% in North America France and 8.6% for EAA brands.
On a fleet-wide basis occupancies are at approximately the same levels as last year and local currency pricing is higher than a year ago.
At this juncture we have only a small amount of inventories left to sell in the second quarter.
North American brands are 55% in the Caribbean with the balance in various other itineraries.
Currently pricing for North American brands in the second quarter is higher than a year ago with occupancies at the same levels.
Caribbean pricing has shown improvement from the first quarter and is down only slightly from last year's second quarter Caribbean prices.
Pricing for the various other North American brand itineraries including shoulder Alaska and Europe seasons and most other itineraries is higher than a year ago.
For EAA brands they are 54% in European itineraries up slightly from a year ago with the balance in various other itineraries.
Local currency ticket pricing for EAA-brand cruises in Europe is slightly higher than a year ago.
Pricing for EAA brands vary.
Its other itineraries taken together is also slightly higher than last year.
From an overall standpoint to summarize the second quarter we are forecasting that fleet-wide local currency revenue yields will be higher for both North America and EAA brands.
Booking momentum and pricing particularly for EAA brands slowed somewhat during the wave season as a result of the political unrest that I previously discussed notwithstanding the voyage disruptions resulting from the political unrest.
We are forecasting European brand yields to be higher than a year ago but not as high as we originally expected.
Second quarter guidance is affected as following.
Fleet-wide revenue yields on a local currency basis for the second quarter are now expected to be 1.5% to 2.5% higher than a year ago.
This is slightly lower than our early expectations largely as a result of the itinerary disruptions I previously referred to.
Fuel price increases are expected to result in $140 million or $0.18 per share of higher fuel cost compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Costs other than fuel are forecasted to be higher in the 2% to 3% range for the quarter due to a variety of factors some of which David previously discussed and described in the first quarter.
Taking all of these factors together second quarter 2011 earnings guidance will be in the range of $0.20 to $0.24 down from $0.32 per share in the second quarter of 2010.
Now turning to the third quarter.
Capacity in the third quarter is expected to increase by 4.8% 3.4% in North America and 7.2% for EAA brands.
Third quarter booking patterns are progressing quite well with fleet-wide pricing well ahead of last year at lower occupancies.
The North American brand capacity for the third quarter was 36% in the Caribbean down slightly from 41% last year.
25% in Europe an increase from 17% last year which is almost a 50% increase or about a 50% increase.
And 23% in Alaska which is about the same as last year.
Pricing for all North American brand itineraries in the third quarter is well ahead of last year with particularly higher occupancy than pricing in this year's Alaska season.
Pricing for North American brands in Europe is also ahead of last year at lower occupancy which was not surprising given the approximate 50% increase in European capacity for our North American brands in the summer.
Caribbean pricing for the third quarter is higher than a year ago also on lower occupancies.
This is a refreshing change for our Caribbean programs given the challenges we've had during the first and second quarter.
For EAA brand capacity is 88% in European itineraries.
The EAA pricing is nicely ahead of last year at slightly lower occupancies notwithstanding the challenges resulting from the political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa.
As mentioned earlier the EAA bookings in the last five to six weeks have been challenging with some booking momentum lost as a result of the itinerary issues in this region of the world.
Now that itineraries for these cruises have been reestablished and are in the marketplace we believe the booking momentum will start to pick up again.
On overall basis we are forecasting fleet-wide pricing for the third quarter to be up nicely for both North America and EAA business segments.
For the fourth quarter on a fleet-wide basis capacity is up 5.9% 3.3% for North America brands and 10.1% for EAA brands.
Pricing on a fleet-wide basis is nicely higher year-over-year with a similar pattern to the third quarter.
Occupancies are lower than last year which is also consistent with the pattern that we are experiencing in the third quarter.
Fourth quarter booking picture is encouraging but it's early in the booking cycle so I caution not to read too much into the fourth quarter booking picture at this time.
North American brands are 42% and the Caribbean down from 50% last year; 14% in Europe up from 9% last year; and 10% in Orient and Pacific cruises which is about the same as last year.
Pricing across North American brand itineraries is running higher than last year at slightly lower occupancies across the fleet.
EAA brands at 72% in Europe up from 65% last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
Pricing for European cruises is nicely higher year-over-year with pricing for the various other itineraries taken together also higher on a year-over-year basis.
Occupancies are lower for European itineraries which is not surprising given the 20% increase in European brand deployment for the fourth quarter.
While it's still early to have a more precise picture for fleet-wide fourth quarter pricing on a fleet-wide basis we are currently forecasting that local currency revenue yields will be nicely higher in the fourth quarter.
And so that kind of summarizes what the yield outlook for the remainder of the year looks like at the current time.
And with that I'll turn it back to -- Kyle I'll turn it back to you for questions from the people that have called in.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Janet Brashear with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the commission structure that you're debuting in the U.K.
And to the extent that the purpose is to get a little bit of control back over pricing and discounting and things like that can you talk about why that wouldn't work in the U.S.
as well? The U.K.
policy has been put together by the U.K.
brands to compensate for the heavy rebating that had become institutionalized in the U.K.
and the belief was with lower pricing by the brands and the lower commission level they could turn the tide of the rebating.
It's something that I think is not an issue in the U.S.
the way it used to be and has been dealt with in the U.S.
in different ways.
So I think you have to look at the U.K.
as a unique market where the brands felt that they had to get control of their pricing and took this kind of action.
I think in the long run they believe and I think the major retail travel agents that they've negotiated and talked to believe that this will be in the best interest of everybody.
But you shouldn't look beyond the U.K.
It's not a model that we'll be looking at anywhere else Inc.</strong> Could you also talk just a little bit more about the charges in the Middle East and North Africa relative to what markets you had to pull itineraries out of and maybe where you're putting those ships in new itineraries? I mean we pulled out of just all North African stops in Tunisia and Morocco and Egypt and we've pulled out of -- actually in some cases we've had to pull out of Israel because we got a lot of resistance.
We haven't done it in all cases.
But people are just concerned about going to that part of the world and we've kind of -- I don't know all the details over 280 different cruises that were redone but a lot of the calls are now calls going into that part of the Eastern Mediterranean but they're going to ports in Turkey and perhaps Cyprus and the Greek islands and things along those lines.
What Howard just said was primarily the European brands primarily Costa and Iberocruceros.
The reaction of the North American brands has been more muted and they have a lot less calls in those countries as well.
Canceling Tunisia was a relatively small change in the itineraries but canceling -- obviously canceling Egypt and some other areas near Egypt created total itinerary changes again primarily for Costa and Iberocruceros.
This really didn't affect North America anywhere near as much as it affected Europe.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Could you just talk a little bit about the customer reaction to these itinerary changes? It seems like that they're just holding back because they didn't know what your itinerary was going to be but now that the itineraries have been set you should be able to more effectively sell them.
Is that the impression that you are getting too? And then secondly the pricing seems to be very good seems to continue to be very good although you mentioned a couple times that your occupancy might be a little light.
Is this just a strategic move given the pent-up demand for travel amongst consumers that you're better off holding these prices here and then filling them in as you get closer to booking? I think on the changes for the Middle East itineraries I think there's too much noise right now for us to tell.
Obviously as itineraries change passengers decide whether they want to go on the new itinerary or not or want to change their mind and go on a different itinerary.
And so there's a lot of booking canceling going on so it's very hard to really judge exactly the total impact.
But we're hopeful that once -- now that all the itineraries are out there and people understand it that that will settle down and we'll go back to a normal booking pattern.
As far as pricing for the summer yes.
I think because we've been able to achieve higher prices we have been holding out for those higher prices and that's why you're seeing a little bit lower occupancies to compensate for those higher prices.
But that's versus last year.
We obviously filled last year and the feeling is that we can hold out for the prices and still fill this year.
And then just one final quick question which is dividend share buyback cash flows are going to be very significant over the next couple of years.
Could you just give us your latest thoughts acknowledging that you just did raise your dividend a few months ago? Yes well you're right.
We do anticipate good cash flows over the next couple of years.
For 2011 we expect to have free cash flow of about $1 billion.
And given that we raised the dividend in January the dividend in this year would be $700 million.
So there isn't that much significant extra cash flow this year.
Only $300 million.
And going forward in '12 and beyond as we said before it is a board decision.
And as we move forward we will discuss that with the board whether it be share buybacks more dividends or anything else.
And our next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays Capital.
Micky I'll direct this one to you.
In this fuel environment have you been rethinking the fuel hedging philosophy at all for the company? I'll defer that one to Howard.
Well obviously we've had a good deal of discussions internally about it and what we decided to do is take another fresh look at hedging strategies and whether we really think it makes sense for the business on a long-term basis.
With the significant hit we're taking for 2011 we thought it incumbent upon us to take another look at it.
As you know in the past we've stated that we don't think it has any real long-term benefit to the business.
There's a cost associated with doing an accounting hedge type of program of some consequence.
The cost we'd like to avoid.
Nonetheless we've kind of huddled and just said okay let's take another look at it again just to see how things -- whether our views have changed and whether there are other factors which would suggest that we should change our view.
So you're in the process of doing that now? Yes we're starting that now.
Right after this earnings call.
No we've had the discussion.
We're doing -- it takes quite a bit of work so we've asked our treasury department to go ahead and start to gather data and look at empirical evidence and forward-looking fuel curves and see whether anything makes sense for us.
I will add that this is not the first review.
We've done this many times and you know the conclusions that we came to.
So I wouldn't prejudge what conclusions we will come to again.
But you shouldn't take for granted that we haven't done this many times.
Well that's good.
And then Howard so you gave us a lot of color about how the political unrest in the Middle East is affecting the momentum in the EAA business.
Wondering if -- is there any of the EAA itineraries that aren't in that region? Maybe you could just give it -- because I thought you said that 54% of the capacity was actually in Europe.
I don't know if you were including that as the itinerary.
I was just wondering if you are seeing a slowing in momentum in the EAA brands for the non-Middle Eastern-type of itineraries? And then similarly I'm just wondering what the momentum has been on the North America demand for Europe? And then have you seen any change in demand trends for the North American consumer in general? Yes.
On the EAA cruises a lot of those itineraries get -- are either one in some cases maybe two calls in Mediterranean ports and then they go further south to North African ports.
We haven't been able to -- there's so much noise in the booking patterns for these brands right now for their Mediterranean and Eastern Mediterranean cruises.
And we haven't dissected the information in a way that -- what didn't call there what did call there and how are the bookings for those particular itineraries that didn't call there? We really haven't done that work but our view is that a large part of what we're seeing is relating to that kind of noise.
I also think and I can't speak for the European consumer but places like Libya and Egypt and Tunisia are a lot closer to Southern Europe and I think perhaps in the minds of Europeans that there may be some caution in what they're doing.
But I don't think there's very much of that but I think there may be something entering.
But we haven't really done the work to know to be honest with you.
And what about the momentum for the North American consumer? Have you seen that change at all? No not really.
Demand in North America has been pretty solid since wave season both for European cruises Alaska cruises and other kinds of itineraries.
So demand seems to be pretty solid.
I would say if you look at it from premium brands versus contemporary brands we're seeing I think pretty good strength in those premium brands where for longer cruises European programs Alaska programs and for Caribbean programs it's good.
But I think that we'll see a lot of the yield improvement that we're expecting to come from those areas where we received good historical demand for those types of cruises from the North American market.
Okay.
Because there's some concern that higher fuel costs are affecting the North American consumer to -- airline ticket prices to be affecting the demand and you're not seeing that? Well we do hear about the high ticket prices but -- and it could be that the strong Alaska season is really quite strong.
Maybe people saying well instead of going to Europe this summer I'll go to Alaska because the air cost is lower.
But really we don't know that.
All we know is European business is good.
Now we'll be running behind in occupancies but we've had this huge increase in capacity in Europe and our competitors have had huge capacity increases.
Our North American competitors have had huge increases in capacity in Europe.
But the absolute numbers of bookings are quite good for Europe.
And decline to occupancy is modest compared to increase in capacity so we're still very bullish on this summer in both Europe and Alaska.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Lyall with John W.
Bristol.
So I believe David said that you've got offsets in lower D&amp;A taxes and interest expense for the year? Could you walk through why that is? Sure.
So this is again versus our December guidance and -- for instance in D&amp;A some of the brands were a little bit aggressive about when they would put some of those maintenance CapEx items into service.
And so we saw some favorability in the first quarter and we reevaluated that and we flowed that through for the year.
It's just the timing of when things go into service.
As far as the interest expense is concerned again we saw favorability in the first quarter and we flowed that and some more through the year.
For things like -- we went back to a few banks.
We asked them to lower the interest rate on some of our loans because quite honestly margins have come in over the last year or so.
We're using the CP market more aggressively which is cheaper than our revolver.
And so we took that in.
And we also reevaluated our income taxes.
We had a pretty substantial increase in our income tax expense from 2010 to 2011 in our December guidance.
And now that we've got a little bit more experience during the first quarter and have a better picture of the year we just evaluated that.
We took it down but we still are up versus the prior year in terms of income taxes.
So all of that as I said before kind of offset some of the inflationary pressures in cruise costs.
Okay that's helpful.
A couple of I guess itinerary questions.
Are you seeing stronger demand in Alaska and maybe Northern Europe as a result of the dislocations in Northern Africa? And then kind of a related question.
Caribbean improving for the first time in really quite some time.
Do you think you really turned a corner there in terms of supply and demand? First your comments on Alaska.
Alaska has been strong already for a while for this year prior.
I think I could say bookings were strong well before the issues in the Middle East came up.
So while the situation -- uncertainty in the Middle East could in effect help Alaska I think the trend was in place well before so I don't -- it's not one created the issue for the other.
I think Alaska based on the agreements we reached with the governor last year lower head taxes and much higher marketing spend by the state of Alaska has really helped.
Plus obviously capacity's down versus the peak.
So the combination of those things I think really helped Alaska.
So Northern Europe I don't know.
I think we're doing well but I don't think it's any different than the rest of Europe.
Well I think we're doing well in Northern Europe.
I don't know that we know -- it's hard to know why.
We don't do any polling on it and know what our customers are thinking.
But we know they're booking -- it is booking well.
But we know that trend was in effect before the Middle East situation.
Yes it's been going on for a while.
On the Caribbean side I mean typically there is a lot less Caribbean capacity in the summer.
And we have a little bit less so -- I mean I think that the Caribbean pricing is holding up a lot better.
And our next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I guess just to sort of parse one answer a little more finely.
When you talked about the slowdown that you've seen in recent weeks would you say particularly the EAA brands would you say that that is sort of continuing to deteriorate or has that fairly stabilized now in other words versus what it might have been kind of two weeks ago? The problem with answering the question is that what happens when you change 200 itineraries is you have a lot of people changing that.
I'm referring to primarily Costa and Ibero so you don't think this is a global issue.
You get a lot of churn.
So you get a lot more bookings but they're coming off people who'll change their mind and cancel one itinerary to get on another itinerary.
So it creates a difficult -- until it settles down it's difficult to gauge what's going on.
I can say this much is historically we’ve found that Europeans believe their vacations are very important to them.
And if they have chosen to take a cruise to the Holy Land and have now canceled because of these issues we believe that eventually they’ll get rebooked on Costa and Iberocruceros if they're from places like Italy France and Spain because these people will take their vacation.
So right now there's a lot of churn going on.
It's difficult to tell exactly what the bottom line effect -- we tried to estimate it.
We estimated it at $44 million we'll see.
But for the next few weeks -- because these itineraries changes only were announced...
Monday.
If you look at maybe just your U.K.
brands and AIDA as maybe more representative of demand outside of just...
Both brands are booking quite well.
Very little issue.
Almost no issue at all.
And so even in the last few weeks that hasn't -- the slowdown was really specific to the Costa and Ibero? That's why I tried to -- Ibero and Costa with heavy emphasis on Northern Africa and Middle East itineraries.
Even AIDA and U.K.
and North America that had those in the itineraries don't seem to be anywhere near its impact.
And our next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
A couple of quick questions.
I wanted to dig a little bit deeper into the sequential increase from the first quarter to the second quarter in your cost.
And I'm trying to get a sense of whether or not the rebooking costs are really driving most of that increase.
Because it would appear that for the balance of the year the cost increases aren't quite as severe.
Yes.
When you take a look overall at the cost structure we talked about costs being flat to up 1% for the year.
But keep in mind that it does vary by quarter.
There are seasonality differences.
Advertising is a great example of seasonality differences.
And one of the reasons why the second quarter is a bit higher is because they're projecting perhaps some more advertising expense over and above last year.
And there are other things in repair and maintenance and drydock and crew travel which do have an impact by quarter.
So we were flat for the first quarter on a normalized basis.
As Howard indicated we're up 2% to 3% for the second quarter.
We were expecting the third quarter to be up and the fourth quarter to be down and that's how we got flat to up 1% for the year.
Again there's lots of seasonalized differences between the quarters.
This information that we pulled together here in Miami results from 10 different companies giving us their estimates of what their costs are going to be and invariably sometimes there are variances in terms of how it actually turns out in the past and sometimes it's conservative.
They tend to be if anything more on the conservative side and making sure they've covered their costs so we'll see what happens.
And I think -- and David has said this many times is costs really can't be judged on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
It really because of timing differences and other things you really have to look at it in a longer term and annual basis is clearly better than quarter-to-quarter.
But it has nothing to do with -- we don't think it has anything to do with rebooking of cruises.
No.
Okay.
Then let me move on to my second question which is related to the topic of fuel surcharges.
I'm trying to get a sense of what level you believe surcharges warranted and could be acceptable to passengers? I don't think we can give you that.
I think our position right now in North America is basically the same as the statements we've put out in the past.
It's something that we always are looking at.
But as of right now we don't feel it appropriate.
And our next question comes from the line of Rachael Rothman from Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Sorry you gave out so many numbers so quickly I may get this slightly wrong.
But I guess if you could talk sequentially about the trends in net yield growth from the first quarter to the second quarter I guess I would've expected a greater pick-up in the net yield growth given the capacity growth in the Caribbean in the first quarter as the kind of motivation behind the 2% constant currency forecast.
And then it sounded to me like in the second quarter maybe you were saying it's because of supply growth in Europe and the North American brands.
Am I understanding that correctly? Is it a supply shop...
Rachael I’m talk even more slower the next time.
LLLP</strong> Sorry.
It's like so much data at once.
I really apologize.
I fully understand.
It can get a little bit confusing.
Now what's happened -- what I did say about the second quarter is that we had expectations that yields would be higher for our EAA brands and that has been impacted by these disruptions in itineraries in the second quarter.
We had to actually move some ships out of Egypt that were two ships actually home [ph] doing turnarounds in Egypt and we had to move them out to different itineraries.
And that disruption caused some deterioration in yield for the second quarter.
Maybe one point of yield for the company.
One point of yield so we're arranging -- we probably would've forecasted without these disruptions about a point higher than the 2% midpoint that you're seeing.
It's also a little bit of an apples-and-oranges comparison because the one benefit that we had in the first quarter that was substantial that I talked about was the South American market for our EAA brands which was up quite a bit.
So it's hard to compare.
We went from -- it looks flat but as Howard said we would have been up in the second quarter.
But that explains it.
LLLP</strong> So I guess if you guys are saying that the second quarter would've been roughly about one percentage point higher and you're taking the full year net yield guidance down by about half a percentage point it seems like it becomes more dependent on the third quarter actually executing in order for you to hit even the revised net yield guidance? And when I combine that with your commentary surrounding higher prices yet lower occupancy can you kind of clarify for us what gives you comfort that that will actually come through given that it's a market with I guess right now pretty substantial geopolitical risk and a choppy booking window? First of all you have to realize that a substantial amount of the business is already on the books at higher prices.
So that gives us a great deal of comfort.
The thing is you mentioned the one point in the second quarter.
The Middle East and North Africa also was probably about a half a point in the third quarter.
When you really average it out I know it turns out to be a half a point for the year because when Beth puts together the press release she rounds everything to the nearest half a point but it's really more of a third of a point for the full year.
And so it just rounds to...
Rachael let me just say this.
We do the best job we can in trying to forecast.
But it is not an exact science and it is subject to the vagaries of the marketplace and what can happen around the world.
So when we give you guidance it is really our best estimate based on what our brands tell us and how we see it as we look at the numbers here in Miami to make sure that we give guidance that we think is reasonable and what we normally are able to achieve.
But it could be -- yes can it be wrong? Sure.
LLLP</strong> You guys do an actual excellent job with the guidance for sure.
I guess maybe -- has your third quarter implied guidance changed at all? Maybe that's a better question to ask.
Came down half a point primarily because of the Middle East -- entirely because of the Middle East.
I should say also there's been some itinerary changes relating to Japan that we've tried to include in our numbers as well but they were really small.
And our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Just wondering if you're still comfortable with kind of that two to three new ships a year and if you're hearing anything as you talk to other shipyards just of maybe other cruise lines potentially accelerating capacity growth or kind of maintaining from here? Yes we're comfortable with the two to three.
That hasn't changed.
Are we hearing stuff from other cruise lines? You hear a lot of noise but you're never quite sure.
Yes we're hearing some noise.
Good.
That's good to hear.
And just in terms of some of your other brands and just kind of looking at sort of the higher-end versus the lower-end consumer are you seeing some maybe trading up or vice versa right now as you kind of look across your fleet? Yes.
I think I mentioned that in North America I think the strength in the pricing seems to be more for the premium brands less so although improved pricing for the contemporary brands and the contemporary products.
So it looks like the higher-end consumer appears to be driving a lot of the strength from a pricing standpoint today.
You don't think it's trading up it's just the higher-end consumer -- more of them coming to book cruises right? It's probably both but I don't think we really know the answer to that question.
And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Milota with JPMorgan.
Just had a quick one.
Not to beat a dead horse here on demand but as you look at the North American passenger base I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of if you know how the booking window is looking for the second and third quarter.
And then also I know you spoke of pricing but is it more solid pricing on the premium stuff and less solid on the contemporary? Just go into a little more detail there.
I think we've responded to that.
Booking pattern is as we anticipated it a quarter ago.
I mean basically the only adjustment we've made in yield is for the Middle East situation.
So I would say it was more predictable than almost ever.
We're basically exactly where we were three months ago as far as booking pattern.
The expectation was for a good wave and that's what we got.
And so we continue to be very bullish about the third quarter and beyond.
And our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva from Infinity Capital.
Just a follow-up Micky.
You just said Q3 and beyond.
It looks that you have good visibility.
Do you expect the same type of yield improvement in Q4 as you do in Q3? And I know it's still early on.
This is Howard.
We expect a strong yield improvement in -- based on everything we see right now and what I commented on is that we still have a way to go in the booking pattern.
It's still early in the booking pattern but the pricing is strong for both North America and Europe right now for the fourth quarter.
And probably we're hopeful of seeing similar yield improvement in the fourth quarter.
That's really it.
Even with these early patterns I mean even if you look out beyond 2011 and we have really early booking data and not all cruises are being sold and it's more long cruises and so on if you look at Q1 2012 the booking data is encouraging as well from a pricing standpoint.
And for Q4 Caribbean pricing continues to be doing as nicely as it is in Q3 at this point? I will get -- Beth is scrambling right now so we'll get back to you on that one.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
I was just wondering if you could talk a bit about your pricing model maybe in relation to fuel.
It's just an observation that fuel historically wasn't much of an issue for you or the industry.
It's clearly a much more material component now of the cost base and you didn't seem to be recovering this spike in price increases.
So part [ph] of the question is as industry leader have you considered adopting maybe a more aggressive pricing strategy to immediately parse [ph] on the fuel prices like maybe the airlines do or maybe not pricing to fill as you have done historically? We price to maximize revenue and maximize profitability and not based on the price of fuel on any given day.
So while obviously fuel is an issue we have to price based on demand.
And that's what we do and we try to maximize yields.
To go back to the prior question Caribbean pricing is strong in the fourth quarter.
As much as the third.
As much as the third yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Two things and this maybe -- I don't know if you have the data given it’s so tight here to answer it or not but given the military action that started with the UN here over the weekend have you seen any data in the bookings from the brands especially the EAA brands that would indicate that there is maybe some additional caution or shift with Costa or Ibero in particular? We definitely don't have any bookings to Libya.
Tim we have no information on that honestly.
It's just we get it weekly at the end of the weekend.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's what I thought you mean.
There maybe two from that in the current set [ph] to have it.
And then on the fuel supplement question you do have some fuel supplements as you said before in the U.K.
and in Germany.
Are you looking at evaluating those and any of the other international itineraries potentially South America the Australia area or do you have those already on in those markets? The laws and regulation in every country is different.
Our brands individually make decisions based on geographical locations and based on the laws that are in those locations.
As we've said we have some brands in some countries doing fuel supplements.
If we're not doing them it's because the brand has decided either not to do them or they can't do them because of those laws or regulations.
And rather than try to go country by country just leave it at that.
It's a very complicated set of issues.
There's some countries where it's absolutely illegal.
Some countries it depends on the price at a given time versus the typed price that's printed on the brochure et cetera et cetera.
So I'll just leave it that we're doing whatever we can to maximize revenue wherever we can.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And that's the underlying driver maximize revenue and profitability first and foremost? Absolutely.
And our next question comes from the line of Nick Thomas with Nomura.
You've made it very clear that I think by far the biggest part of the Middle East/North Africa situation is relating to your European brands such as Costa.
Are you at all surprised that there maybe hasn't been more impact on the booking behavior from your U.S.
clientele given the proximity of those geographies to the Mediterranean? Actually our North American brands have very few calls in that area.
They don't have the kind -- you have to remember Costa had four ships based in the Middle East two in Dubai and two in the Red Sea.
So it was clear that they had a -- plus weekly commitment to itineraries to the Eastern Med including the Holy Land and Egypt.
So it was a far greater problem for them.
These North American brands only have occasional calls in the area and so the impact was relatively small and the itinerary changes relatively easy to accomplish.
But you're not seeing any impact on the sort of -- the propensity for American customers to cruise in the sort of wider Mediterranean area given its proximity? No we haven't seen that all.
And our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Janet Brashear with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Starting with one quick one you talked in the last call about breaking results out in four different categories and I don't see that in this report.
Is that coming later in the year? That comes in the Qs and Ks.
So next week when we file our 10-Q you'll see the segment information in the footnotes.
Inc.</strong> Terrific.
And then a quick question about the differences you're seeing in customers from the luxury lines to the more mid-priced lines.
Are you seeing differences in spending patterns in luxury versus mid-price? And are you seeing differences in spending patterns between North American and European brands to the extent you can separate the European brands from the confusion going on? I think we've said that the pricing on our premium brand is stronger than our contemporary brand.
You're talking about spending onboard or ticket pricing? Inc.</strong> I was talking about onboard spend.
Yes.
I mean in general onboard spend is up across the board in all the brands.
There really hasn't been significant changes in the different marketplaces.
By category most of the categories are up.
We're still struggling a little bit in the casino and art which is something we talked about over the last couple of years.
But all the brands are up and I don't -- there aren't any discernible differences by brand or by region.
There are but not year-over-year.
Because as we've said before certain brands certain geographies have far less onboard spend than others.
But that's -- what David's saying is we're up across the board but they are different by brand and demographic and...
And the product itself.
Yes.
And Mr.
Frank we have no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the conference back to you.
Okay great Todd.
Thank you all for calling in.
And Beth is around and she's looking forward to getting calls from those who have an interest in talking to her and getting more information than what we may have imparted to you on this call.
Have a great day everybody.
Goodbye.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great rest of the day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Carnival Corp.'s Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday June 21 2011.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
This is Howard Frank and I'm here in Miami with David Bernstein who is our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
On the line as well but in London are Micky Arison our Chairman and CEO; and Beth Roberts is with Micky.
Beth is our Vice President of Investor Relations.
So we'll do the normal -- we will do the normal call.
As questions come in after we finish -- David and I finish our presentations I will kind of coordinate it.
So if you get a little silence at some points in time don't worry about it.
It's just there's a little coordination activities and I'll refer questions for Micky and Beth as needed.
So with that I'll turn it over to David and he'll take you through color for the second quarter and the cost outlooks for the rest of the year.
Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note as some of our remarks in this conference call will be forward-looking I will refer you to the cautionary statements in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and costs will be in local currency unless otherwise noted as this is a much better indicator of business trends.
For the second quarter our earnings per share was $0.26.
The second quarter came in $0.04 above the midpoint of our March guidance.
The $0.04 per share improvement was driven by $0.02 from cruise operations as net revenue yields and net cruise costs were generally in line with expectations.
We also picked up $0.02 from a few miscellaneous nonoperating items.
Now let's look at our second quarter results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 5% for the second quarter of 2011 with the majority of the increase coming from our European Australian and Asian brands or as we call them our EAA brands.
Our EAA brands grew 9% while our North American brands grew only 3%.
Our net revenue yields increased 2% in the second quarter with similar increases in both net ticket and net onboard and other revenue yield.
Net ticket yields increased 2%.
The North American brands however were up 3%.
Let me give you some color by itinerary for the North American brand.
The Caribbean itineraries were flat for the second quarter which was consistent with our expectation.
However this does represent some sequential improvement.
As we talked in the first quarter the Caribbean itineraries were down.
We did expect that the Caribbean pricing pressure would ease as the year progressed and so far we are on track.
All other itineraries for the North American brands were up except Europe which was impacted by the conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa commonly referred to as MENA.
Our EAA brands were up 1% for the quarter.
Their itineraries outside of Europe were up particularly the Caribbean and other exotics.
However as previously announced the European itineraries were down as they felt the impact of MENA.
Net onboard and other yields also increased 2%.
The increase here was also driven by our North American brands as our EAA brands were also impacted by MENA itinerary changes in the form of lower shore excursion revenue.
On the cost side net cruise costs excluding fuel per available lower berth day were up 3% versus the prior year.
We saw inflationary pressures in food costs crew travel and other hotel costs that were anticipated and discussed on our last conference call.
In summary the second quarter EPS was $0.26 per share versus the $0.32 we reported last year.
However fuel prices were up 35% costing us an additional $0.19 per share.
Therefore excluding fuel prices our EPS for the second quarter would have been up $0.13 versus the prior year.
Turning to our 2011 outlook.
I'll skip the net revenue yield outlook as Howard will discuss that shortly.
On the cost side for the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel per available lower berth day are forecasted to be flat to up 1% which is the same as our March guidance.
One final note.
I'll share with you our current rules of thumb about the impact of fuel prices and currency on our results for the remainder of the year.
To start with a 10% change in the price of fuel for the remaining half of 2011 represents a $0.14 per share impact.
And with respect to FX a 10% change in all currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar for the remaining half of 2011 would impact our P&amp;L by $0.16 per share.
At this point I'll turn the call back to Howard.
Thank you David.
So now I'll go into a little bit of history but talk more about how the history is going to affect our outlook for the second half of the year.
As we've previously announced second quarter business trends were more challenging than we expected especially for our European brand companies.
At the time of our March guidance we clearly underestimated the impact that the political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa would have on our business for the remainder of the year.
While we got the estimates right for the second quarter which was close in we significantly missed our estimates for the impact of the MENA events for the second half of the year.
And to a lesser extent our revenues were also affected by the unfortunate events in Japan which had just occurred at the time of our March earnings call and it was too early to know how and to what extent these events would affect our business in that part of the world.
Looking at the picture for the entire company the fleet-wide reduction in forecasted revenue for the second half of this year cost us approximately $0.20 a share.
In broad terms of this amount approximately $0.17 per share was related to MENA and other European brand softness.
Approximately $0.02 was North American brand reduced pricing for European sailings and $0.01 per share for Japan.
At Costa Cruise Lines the establishing of new itineraries for 280 sailings in order to avoid calling at MENA ports was far more disruptive to their business than originally thought.
Costa was a significant commitment to MENA ports of call in 2011 was by far the most affected of our companies.
Other brands were also affected by MENA but to a much lesser degree.
We had expected that once the new itineraries were announced we would experience a period of cancellations and rebookings for the newly redesigned cruises and that over time pricing would stabilize.
Reselling of these cruises was far more challenging than expected and we were eventually forced to reduce pricing for the summer and fall season to stimulate demand.
Although difficult to quantify bookings for the non-MENA-affected European cruises were also affected by the lower prices offered for the redesigned MENA cruises.
European brand bookings unrelated to MENA itineraries also appear to have been affected by the weak economies in France Italy and Spain the main markets in which they sell into.
This coupled with a significant increase in Mediterranean capacity this year by European and U.S.
cruise companies could also have been a factor in the deterioration of European pricing.
However the redesigning of the MENA cruises and offering them at greatly reduced prices was clearly the greatest contributor to reduced European revenue yields.
Regarding the U.K.
market both P&amp;O Cruises and Cunard experienced a slowdown in bookings during the winter and early spring.
The U.K.
government's austerity measures introduced during the period caused a major decline in consumer confidence.
And we felt this in our U.K.
bookings for several months over the winter and early spring a critical time in our booking period.
In order to stimulate demand prices were reduced as was the revenue forecast for the U.K.
However I'm pleased to say that more recently consumer confidence has rebounded in the U.K.
and our booking patterns in May and June have stabilized.
For the North American brands in the second half of the year we did experience some impact from MENA sailings and to a lesser degree sailings around Japan especially for our premium-priced cruise lines which have had a number of sailings in those parts of the world.
Most of the reduced North American revenue forecast relates to MENA and Japan with the balance attributable to lower-than-expected pricing for Mediterranean cruises.
This was partially offset by better-than-expected pricing in Alaska and other cruise lines.
Now turning to the current booking status and recent booking trends.
Presently fleet-wide local currency pricing for the second half bookings is nicely higher year-over-year more significantly so for North American brands and slightly higher for EAA brands.
Occupancies for the second half of the year are lower slightly lower for North American brands and lower for EAA brands.
Looking at the booking window over the last 6 weeks however the picture is showing solid improvement on a fleet-wide basis with booking volume significantly higher year-over-year for North America and EAA and with stronger pricing for the North America brands and lower pricing for EAA brands.
This is consistent with my previous comments and our current forecast for EAA brand revenue.
We view the MENA disruptions in 2011 as a significant and unusual event in our business.
While our business is global with our fleets sailing around the world we of course recognize that our business is subject to the risk of political unrest in those countries to which we sail and we provide a factor for that in setting our revenue forecast and earnings guidance.
However the magnitude of the MENA events in 2011 on our business was unprecedented and could not have been anticipated.
With regard to the European market the European consumer has been quite resilient in the past and we believe Europe continues to represent an excellent growth market for our business.
Perhaps the silver lining in all this is our North American brands which have continued to perform well despite the less-than-robust U.S.
economy.
We are greatly encouraged with the recent strength of our North American brand performances here that is from a booking standpoint which bodes well for our 2012 business outlook.
Now turning to our full year earnings guidance for 2011.
As we indicated in our press release we are now guiding earnings to $2.40 to $2.50 a share or a midpoint of $2.45.
This represents a $0.15 lower earnings guidance than that provided in our first quarter earnings guidance in March.
The principal reasons for the change as we've previously indicated are reduced revenues in the second half of the year of approximately $0.20 per share primarily from the impact of MENA.
Some of the reduced revenue is offset by cost savings as well as certain nonoperating items of approximately $0.05 a share.
Given the recent reductions in fuel prices we are now estimating that fuel cost net of currency exchange benefit is unchanged for the rest of the year.
So the net of all this amounts to $0.15 a share reduction on our guidance to the midpoint of $2.45 from $2.60 previously.
Now let me take you through some of the color for each of the next 3 quarters.
Turning to the third quarter capacity in the third quarter is expected to increase by 4.8% 3.3% of that is in North America 7.2% for EAA brands.
On a fleet-wide basis third quarter occupancies are running slightly behind last year with fleet-wide local currency pricing nicely ahead year-over-year despite the challenges in Europe.
That's the current picture.
For North American brand capacity in the third quarter was 36% in the Caribbean which is down from 41% last year.
25% in Europe an increase from 17% last year and 23% in Alaska which is about the same as last year.
Pricing for North American brand business in the third quarter is well ahead of last year on the same year-over-year occupancies.
And booking volumes for the last 6 weeks have been strong with very little inventory left to sell.
More specifically pricing for Alaska itineraries is running significantly higher than last year.
Pricing for Caribbean itineraries is slightly better than a year ago which is a nice improvement from the first half of the year.
And pricing for North American brand European itineraries is lower than a year ago for the reasons I've previously discussed.
Taking this all together we are forecasting that North American brand pricing for the third quarter will be nicely higher than a year ago.
Moving over to the EAA brand capacity is 83%.
EAA brand capacity is 83% in European itineraries.
At the present time EAA local currency pricing is slightly ahead of last year on local -- on lower occupancies.
EAA brand bookings over the last 6 weeks have been strong with pricing running lower than a year ago.
Despite all the challenges in Europe we are currently forecasting that EAA revenues will come in only slightly lower than last year by the time the third quarter closes.
Looking at this on a fleet-wide basis we are forecasting third quarter local currency yields to be higher in the 1% to 2% range driven by the stronger North American brand yields.
Turning now to the fourth quarter.
On a fleet-wide basis capacity is up 5.8% 3.2% in North America 10% for EAA brands.
Local currency pricing on a fleet-wide basis for the fourth quarter is nicely higher year-over-year a similar pattern to the third quarter.
Occupancies are lower than last year slightly lower for North American brands and lower for EAA brands.
North American brands are 42% in the Caribbean and down from 50% last year.
14% in Europe versus 9% last year and 10% in Orient Pacific which is about the same as last year the balance of the itineraries in various other places.
Pricing for North American brand itineraries in the fourth quarter is nicely higher than a year ago and the booking volume for North American brands in the fourth quarter continues to be strong.
By the time the fourth quarter closes we expect North American brand pricing to be nicely higher.
EAA brands is 71% in Europe versus 64% last year with the balance in other itineraries.
Fourth quarter local currency pricing for EAA brands at the current time is higher than a year ago but given the current lower occupancy versus last year we expect EAA pricing on a local currency basis for the fourth quarter to continue to decline.
While booking momentum has picked up it has been at the lower price points.
So by the time the quarter closes we expect EAA local currency pricing to be lower than a year ago.
On an overall fleet-wide basis for the fourth quarter similar to the third quarter we are forecasting higher local currency revenue yield driven by the stronger pricings from the North American brands.
Now turning to the first quarter 2012.
For the first quarter of 2012 capacity is 5.5% higher than last year 4.5% in North America 7.2% in EAA brands.
At the present time on a fleet-wide basis local currency pricing is nicely higher with occupancies running slightly behind last year.
While the first quarter booking picture is encouraging it is still early in the booking cycle so I caution not to read too much into the first quarter booking picture at this time.
For North American brands we are 65% in the Caribbean which is about where we were last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
Caribbean pricing is nicely higher than a year ago on slightly lower occupancies.
Pricing for all other itineraries is also higher than a year ago also at slightly lower occupancies.
EAA brands are 22% in the Caribbean but same as last year; 20% in Europe down from 23% last year; 18% in South America up slightly from 16% last year; and 40% in a variety of other itineraries around the world.
For all EAA itineraries taken together local currency pricing is slightly higher than a year ago at slightly lower occupancies.
From an overall fleet-wide standpoint booking volumes and pricings in the last 6 weeks for the first quarter of 2012 have been strong and at this time it appears that Q1 is off to a good start.
However please keep in mind it's still early in the booking process and we have a long way to go before the first quarter of 2012 is closed.
So that sort of summarizes the booking status and the booking picture as we go through this period of time.
And with that Tina I will turn it back over to you and we'll take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays Capital.
Howard as always you gave us great color for the next several quarters.
I'm going to push a little bit.
I'm wondering -- I know it's early but I'm also -- I've been really wondering what the current turmoil in the MENA region and throughout is doing to your forward Med and European bookings for next year.
I know that's beyond what you can see for the first quarter but I was wondering if you could give some color on that.
And just wondering you talked a little bit about what your capacity changes were at least in the first quarter.
But I was wondering industry-wide do you have an idea of what the capacity is increasing in Europe and in the Med for next year? Yes let me take the first question and I'm going to have Beth I'm not sure if she can answer the second question but I'm going to send it over to her to respond to it.
She's got the industry data.
I'm not sure we have it by markets yet.
Look I think in Q1 I think that cost repositioned Q1 of 2012 and I know you want to go beyond Q1.
But for Q1 they repositioned a number of cruises away from the Med.
They repositioned an additional ship down to South America for this winter in the first quarter another ship into the Caribbean all sorts from the European market by the way.
And they made a few other itineraries -- and those ships came out -- the knock-on effect is those ships came out of the Middle East or North Africa so there is less dependence in the first quarter on those itineraries.
Going into the second and third quarters it's still early.
I had a conversation with the Costa people this morning about it.
They're still watching it.
Those itineraries are still tending to be a little bit soft so that further out they may have to do some other things.
But right now they feel pretty confident that if things don't get any worse in that area of the world that they will stay with the current plan.
If they see booking momentum falling off they will have to consider making some changes.
But the benefit -- what happened this year as I think a lot of the changes that were made were made during wave season or towards the end of -- mid and end of wave season which was strong booking periods for us.
And as you get into the weaker booking periods of April May and June it became more difficult for them to catch up.
I think if they have -- they have the ability now to make these decisions and be a little bit more agile knowing what they're up against and so it's possible they may make some other changes.
But I think it will be -- give them sufficient time once they make those changes to get those itineraries out.
So I think they feel much more comfortable in terms of at least having a better sense as to what their revenue yield picture is going to look like from those programs in 2012.
But it's still very very early for second quarter and summer.
We don't -- I don't have any picture of the summer at all right now to be honest with you.
So I don't even see that.
And is that normal for this time of the year? Yes yes.
And we don't -- we basically are -- they're still in the process.
While they've got their itineraries all done for next year they're still in the process of formulating their budgets or revenue budgets and so on.
So I have no feel for it.
I do not have...
Yes go ahead.
Go ahead Beth.
Yes I'm sorry.
I do not have the deployment by market for 2012.
I can tell you that our North American brands capacity is up 3.5% and our European brands capacity for next year is up closer to 8%.
From an industry perspective we are showing North America less than 3% and Europe up 6%.
But that is again brand sourcing European passengers not necessarily the deployment.
Okay hopefully I can get some more granularity on that from you later Beth? We'll try.
Our next question comes from Janet Brashear of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> As we're thinking about the Middle East and the disruption there I'm wondering what you're thinking if things get worse in Athens? How many of the ships would be affected and how many of the brands will be affected by that since that's obviously a very significant port in the Mediterranean and to some extent may be a good port now particularly with the ships coming out of Middle East and North Africa? So [indiscernible] Yes I mean look I think that -- yes I'm sure Janet.
I think Athens has been a challenge for us for several months now.
I mean there's been quite a bit of turmoil in Athens.
But it seems to be in Athens and it seems to be a much more localized.
While we do call in Athens and we do turnarounds in Athens most of our calls are in the Greek Islands which have been unaffected by all this.
Indeed Athens is really unaffected by it as well.
So we haven't -- I haven't heard that Athens has been any significant problem yet and we hope that things just start to in the next couple of weeks -- there’s some clarity on what's going to happen in Greece so that things will calm down such.
But we'll see we'll see it out.
I think it is an important area though for us to sell in Greece.
The majority of our turns in Athens are done by Seabourn.
I was aboard Seabourn Quest yesterday for the naming ceremony and talked to Rick Meadows who’s the President of Seabourn about this issue.
And he said as of right now they have not had any visible impact to their Athens turns their Piraeus turns.
With respect to our exposure to Greece it looks like roughly 8% or 9% of our capacity touches Greece in the back half of the year.
As Howard said most of that is Greek Islands which is unimpacted not impacted.
And most of that's already booked too.
Our next question comes from Greg Badishkanian of Citigroup.
I just wanted to follow up on the first quarter trends.
It seems like they're relatively strong and you said not to take too much weight into it though.
But historically this time of year when you're looking at the first quarter bookings is it a decent indicator if things are strong that assuming no change in the macro environment they'll continue to be so? It's hard to know.
I mean certainly it's a positive indicator.
But I hate to -- since it is early in the booking process as ships start to come back to the Caribbean and if -- you're almost subject while we're booking nicely to what your competitors are doing as well and from a last minute standpoint.
And if they're not filling as quickly as we are you just don't know.
It's probably less now of an economic issue.
I think that we would have -- if it was an economic issue we probably would have seen it by now.
So I think as the economy kind of moves along and it's not a great robust economy we are seeing people taking cruise vacations and we're getting positive pricing trends right now.
So we're -- and the booking volumes are good for Q1 right now.
So we're feeling -- we're a little bit buoyed by it.
On the other hand we don't want to -- there's a long way to go before the quarter closes and we don't want to make any promises right now that may not become real -- we can't realize by the end of the quarter.
So we'll have a better sense of it in the next quarter I think.
And if over the summer bookings continue to be strong I think we probably will be able to give out some better guidance on what Q1 yields are going to look like.
Our next question comes from Assia Georgieva of Infinity Research.
Howard I had one question.
Maybe your conversations with the different brand heads you may have been able to gauge this.
Do you think there might be an additional risk related to the MENA events at this point? Or do you think it's been captured given that we're into Q3 and Q4 has less exposure to that geography in general? Yes.
I mean with respect to 2011 no.
I think we're certainly close enough in on the third quarter to get it right.
And while I think we have a little bit more exposure in Q4 I think we brought our yield forecast down enough so that we're fully covered for the second half of the year.
I don't see any significant exposure.
And I'm encouraged by the fact that in other markets we're seeing some strong volumes strong booking volumes which is a very positive indicator.
So I'm hopeful it could be better than what we're saying.
But you don't know until the quarter ends and we'll see what happens.
We had a lot more time to look at -- go ahead sorry.
I'm sorry David.
Go ahead.
No I was just going to say we had a lot more time to look at this and study it for this quarter than we did last quarter.
There was a lot of things that occurred last quarter that happened right before the conference call which made it very difficult for us to predict the future at that point.
I think people forget that the Japan event occurred a few days before the call and the actual bombing of Libya occurred just a couple of days before the call.
So the impact of those 2 events we hadn't felt yet.
And while the ongoing conflict in Libya has not been a major issue in the media in the U.S.
like it is in Southern Europe I mean if you can imagine in the southern part of the United States if there was constant bombing of Cuba what kind of media there would be? And that's kind of the geography we're dealing with.
Libya is very close to Southern Europe and so it was a very big ongoing story.
It continues to be in a big ongoing story of that.
It only started a couple of days before our last guidance.
So now as David said we've had 3 months to really study what impact it's had.
And hopefully we've done a better job now of estimating the full impact for this year.
And it sounds like you're being very conservative on Q4 right? From what both you Micky and what Howard said? We hope so.
Exactly.
Okay.
And the second question Alaska has been exceptional this year.
Do you think that this might be sort of pent-up demand after several years of very high head taxes? Or might it be something that does not continue into 2012? I know it's very speculative at this point but I just wondered what your thinking was in Alaska.
I would say a couple of things.
First of all capacity was reduced after the referendum passed.
It took a number of years for that reduced capacity actually to roll through and I think that has helped.
And second historically when Europe weakens those people that are looking for kind of sightseeing destinations Alaska becomes a very positive alternative.
And so Alaska winds up benefiting from the negative issues that occur when North Americans travel into Europe.
And you've got the combination of that plus higher airfares to Europe which are not quite the case to Seattle and Vancouver.
And you put all that together and they wound up to be a very very strong Alaska season.
Okay great.
Hopefully next year it will continue.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Steven Wieczynski of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Howard I guess for the people that canceled the cruises in the Middle East due to the Middle East stuff and the ones that have not rebooked what is the theory as to why they have not rebooked? Is it that they have their heart set on that itinerary or are they waiting for a better economic environment? Can you give a little color there? I'm not sure they haven't rebooked.
I think there may have been some delays in their rebooking or they just rebooked at lower prices or booked other itineraries.
What happened is when we brought prices down for the MENA-affected cruises because we're starting from 0 again so to speak that prices for all other Med itineraries had to compete with that.
And so pricing came down all over.
And I think that I'm not -- while I don't know for sure what percentage of people who canceled didn't rebook I think probably my guess is most people rebooked their cruises but they booked them to other itineraries.
But they booked them at lower prices.
And I think what we're feeling is really the lower pricing across all Mediterranean cruises also [indiscernible] and not directly MENA-affected cruises.
When you have that many itineraries being changed and that many guests being impacted you wind up with a huge amount of churn and you're not always able to link the cancel with the new booking.
Because a person cancels one day and maybe rebooks with a different line or that line but different itinerary a week or 2 later and there's no necessarily system linkage to the 2 events.
So much of that was happening over such a short period of time that it's very hard to know what the actual movement was.
And it's possible when it's all said and done and the brands do a postmortem we'd have a better understanding of how that happened.
But we're still in the middle of it.
I mean a lot of these itinerary changes happened in the second third and beginning of fourth quarters.
So we're still right in the middle of all of this movement although I would say it's settled down now.
And as Howard said the booking pace has now picked up again.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay got you.
And the last question David the $0.05 cost savings that are coming out on the back half of the year can you just give a little more color as to where those are coming from? Yes what we're referring to is we've got some improvement in fuel consumption in the back half of the year as well as a number of nonoperating items most of which by the way showed up and were realized in the second quarter.
So that was what made up the $0.05.
Remember we came in $0.04 better in the second quarter so we took down the guidance by $0.15 to incorporate that as well.
So we got the benefit of that.
Our next question comes from Tim Conder of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Howard could you comment a little bit on the cadence that you've seen in onboard spending throughout the second quarter and then what you've seen so far in June here? I'll let David do that.
David? Yes Tim.
We're seeing a couple of percentage points improvement in onboard spending.
We're expecting on a normalized basis a couple of percent for the year.
And really I think I said this on the last call it's across all categories of onboard except for the casinos.
And we've talked about the challenges that we have with the casinos so nothing's changed much from March guidance for the June guidance in terms of onboard.
We're expecting we're 2% higher this year.
Higher yes.
2% improvement in yields...
Which is about what we ran at in the first half of the year.
Correct yes on a normalized basis.
Because we talked about the first quarter in the prior year where you had some unusual items.
So the first quarter looked lower but on a normalized basis excluding those guarantee payments last year we were up about 2%.
LLC</strong> So despite the fluctuations in bookings what you've seen out of Europe and so forth there's been no broad fluctuation in onboard spending? Is that a fair statement? No broad fluctuation.
But that's historically the way -- we have seen far more volatility in ticket prices than onboard generally speaking.
We did get hurt on the shore excursions because of the itinerary changes and we took that into account.
But generally speaking the onboard spend is down [ph].
LLC</strong> Okay and then could you give us a little bit more detail on the nonoperating items some kind of from a modeling perspective next year? It sounds like nonrecurring nonoperating items? Yes.
We had a 2 lie-lows left which is leases on some ships.
We were able to get out of actually half of one of them which we picked up a couple of cents there.
And we also had some FX gains.
So these are all one-time items that occur.
Every year there seems to be 1 or 2 here or there.
We still have a lease and a half left to go and we're working to get out of that.
So maybe we'll pick up another $0.01 or $0.02 from that next year.
It's very unpredictable.
LLC</strong> Okay and finally just to clarify it doesn't sound like there's any impact but the Chilean volcano causing some flight disruptions in Australia.
Any issues with Australia and New Zealand cruises at this point? I haven't heard anything.
I didn't even know about it.
Our next question comes from Robin Farley UBS.
Two questions.
One is just to clarify you were talking about repositioning some things away from the Med for next year.
But in 2012 you are not returning at all to any Middle Eastern North African ports is that correct? That's not at all in your plans for 2012 now? No no no.
What we did -- we did some repositioning in Q1 Robin away from some of those ports of call.
Q2 and beyond we still have pretty much the same programs in effect for the various MENA ports.
We haven't changed.
I mean things have really settled down in Egypt for example.
And in Israel we started to go back to Israel.
Even though Israel was not part of it we had to stop calling in Israel because people were nervous about even going to Israel.
We start Israeli calls later on this year actually in the fall.
But we still have those calls and beginning next spring and summer we still have Middle East North Africa calls.
But it's still early in the game for that and if they have to be changed they'll be changed.
But right now we still have that same risk exposure I would say.
Just to clarify the itinerary changes Howard talked about was for the first quarter was pulling ships out of the Med entirely and then moving to South America a couple of ships.
But no there hasn't been changes beyond that.
Okay.
Okay great.
And then the other question is on fuel hedging.
Can you just give us any color on kind of your current thinking there whether that's something you think about more than you have previously? Yes we have been thinking about it a lot.
We've had a lot of discussions including with the board.
We're looking at a program that's probably more like fuel insurance than fuel hedging.
I think we talked about this a little bit on the last call where we would like to protect ourselves against large fuel spikes as opposed to locking in prices.
So we'll be -- we haven't done anything to date but we are talking and looking at it.
And we will be opportunistic in our decisions.
I think one of the big issues we have is trying to get for the kind of program we have in mind trying to get correlations right.
Because based on what we've experienced this year the difference between WTI and what we pay for fuel has been enormous in terms of the movement of those fuels.
So part of those studies we've been doing working with consultants on this is trying to get to an answer that will -- so that if fuel does move one way or another so will our fuel costs move.
So we need to make sure we got it right.
And that's why it's taking so much work.
Our next question comes from Harry Curtis of Nomura.
A quick question on the cost side.
Through the first 3 quarters of 2011 your constant dollar cost per ALBD will average in the high 2s and your guidance for the year is flat to up 1%.
If you could just walk us through the cost savings that are going to drive that annual number down to flat to 1% for the year? Sure.
There were a couple of one-time items in the fourth quarter of 2010 which hopefully won't repeat themselves which result in some overall cost reduction in the fourth quarter versus the prior year.
And the other thing and we’ve said this before that the quarters aren't necessarily a good picture of the whole year that the whole year is a much better picture.
Because you do see [indiscernible] across the quarters that's different from year to year particularly in advertising expense and some other areas.
So the full year is a much better measure of our cost control.
Remember we have had a very significant cost in the fourth quarter last year from the fire on the Carnival Splendor.
So looking ahead to 2012 what should be the difference between the kind of high 2% cost per ALBD over the last several quarters? Going forward particularly given or in light of your comments that there are some inflationary costs should it be kind of comparable to the first 3 quarters that we've seen so far this year? What we've been telling everybody is while historically we've been able to keep our costs flat on a unit basis excluding fuel going forward we're looking at something more like flat to half of inflation because it is getting more difficult.
As we slow down the growth of the fleet we get less benefit from economies of scale.
So it will be more difficult.
I keep saying this and Micky keeps proving me wrong.
There’s also all sorts of things happening all the time.
I mean the reality is that we made a move to merge the back office of Seabourn into Holland America for example and create significant cost synergies that we disclosed earlier.
But the costs of all that was in the first half of this year where all the redundancy payments and everything was done in the first half of this year and all the synergies will flow through the second half of next year.
So a similar thing we're working on in Australia between Princess Australia and P&amp;O Australia.
Similarly we merged our 2 different hotel businesses in Alaska and that happened this spring.
And the synergies hopefully will flow through next year.
So you've got these kinds of things happening that can give you a bump in a quarter or 2 but hopefully over the long term keep us closer to 0 than 0 to half of inflation.
Okay that's helpful.
And then one question that's probably a little harder to answer and that is in Northern Europe given the capacity increases I am sure you are sensitive to the issue of saturation points.
Do you have any sense of whether or not some of the recent lack of pricing is related to saturation as opposed to consumer confidence? Our Northern Europe business is performing very well across virtually all brands at least compared to Southern Europe where we're dealing with all the MENA situations.
And in the U.K.
then? With all the noise in there Harry it's really hard to know.
As we went into the summer booking season for Europe it was very strong.
And it looked like we were going to have really some very strong yield improvements in our European sailings both on North America brands and European brands.
And indeed even some of the numbers today are showing improvements.
I mean despite all the things that we've seen.
So our feeling is that it's really much less a capacity issue and much more a geopolitical issue.
And just to be clear my answer was itinerary not necessarily source markets.
But itineraries in Northern Europe Norway and the Baltic are performing better than obviously the Mediterranean because of MENA.
I wasn't talking about source markets per se.
Okay and then just one last.
If you could address that same question relative to the U.K.? I think Howard just did.
Yes.
I mean I think U.K.
seems to -- look I mean there are so many -- I mean there's continuing austerity measures and things going on in the U.K.
I think what happened is in the winter and spring there's been the introduction of a lot of these measures.
I think it was a major shock to consumer confidence.
And as they've settled in I think business as I indicated to you has started to come back in the U.K.
We've taken on all of our U.K.
capacity.
So from our standpoint I don't think -- Micky you can correct me -- that we've got any -- I can't recall Beth you may have the data any significant capacity increases in the U.K.
other than for annualization of ships that we already put in.
Actually our U.K.
brand capacity is down slightly because we have the Artemis that went out.
And the Adonia that came in is slightly smaller.
I think where U.K.
capacity gets hurt is when you have something like MENA and you've got competitors who view the U.K.
as not a primary source market but a dump market that they come in and they dump very very low prices to fill up ships that are having problems because of something like MENA.
So we have some competitive dynamics happening in the U.K.
and some other markets as well where these last-minute itinerary changes needed to be filled not just by our brands but by some of our competitors.
And source a lot of business.
That helps me understand it though.
That's helpful.
Our next question comes from Jamie Rollo of Morgan Stanley.
Just a few more questions on the MENA hit please.
I'm just trying to get a feeling for -- just to quantify the lower revenues on the ships you've repositioned and what might happen next year in more normal itineraries.
So you said that MENA has taken off 1.5% off group net revenue yields for the year and those 300 repositioned cruises look to be around 6% of group capacity growth? I mean I know it's very simple but is it fair to say that you've lost broadly a quarter of the revenue of those ships? And if that's the case in a more normal environment would you expect some or all of that to come back next year? That kind of analysis I can't do that quickly.
I'm going to work on that one.
Why don't we go on and I'll come back to that one.
Okay we will get back to you on that yes.
One of the problems we have is you're right that we have isolated MENA to the itinerary changes.
But there is a domino impact of MENA that we are treating separately.
And I just described one of the domino impacts earlier when dumping in certain markets.
But we're unable to quantify that.
So the way we quantify MENA is just those itineraries and those ships that were impacted by those itineraries.
Okay well that sort of answers the question then.
And then the other question was is there any more color you can give us on trading in the last 6 weeks? I see all customer deposits at the period end were up pretty sharply year-on-year but are there any other trends in the last 6 weeks or just solid demand across the board? It's been strong across-the-board stronger at better pricing at higher prices in our North American brands and stronger at lower prices for certain of our European brands that are trying to fill their ships especially the Southern Europe brands.
But overall the volumes have been strong which is very encouraging.
When you're talking deposits are you comparing May to November? No May to May.
May to May.
Okay we don't have that in front of us.
Yes it's probably up about $400 million May to May.
It is strong yes but that's always a nice indicator.
Our next question comes from Ian Rennardson of Jefferies.
A couple of questions.
Have the events in MENA altered your thinking regarding the dividend and possibly any share repurchases? And if so in what way? That's the first question.
The second question is that can we get the Mediterranean into context? You mentioned Israel as being a place that people didn't want to go to.
I am assuming you didn't do anything in Libya? What other ports did people have an aversion to? And that's it.
If I can just add one thing to Jamie's question part of that customer deposit issue is currency.
And FX.
You have currency benefit that affects the advanced ticket deposit balance sheet account.
I don't know if -- you guys want to respond to that? I think Libya was different in that Egypt was a key port of call.
Libya became a marketing issue because of the adverse publicity of the amount of military activity occurring extremely close.
When I say military I'm talking naval ships missile carriers helicopters in the vicinity of South of France and Italy.
And whether that is a pleasant area to cruise around when you have that kind of activity on the front page of every Italian newspaper every French newspaper every Spanish newspaper.
So it's quite different than calling in Alexandria.
You're right we had very few calls in Libya.
We did have some by the way prior to this event but very few.
But it was that impact that we hadn't taken into account in March because the bombing had just started to occur a few days before and the impact of the publicity hadn't been felt yet.
Yes I mean the other country affected is Tunisia.
We have quite a few calls in Tunisia and we had to stop doing that as well.
Okay and on the balance sheet and the dividend here? Yes dividend and share repurchase I don't think MENA has any real long-term impact when we're thinking about the dividend and share repurchase.
That's a long-term strategy.
We're still committed to returning the excess free cash flow to shareholders.
As a result to MENA maybe we have a few dollars left to return.
But it doesn't change the long-term strategy and our thought process.
Your next question comes from Brian Egger of Forecastle Research.
Just as a point of clarification relative to your preannouncement on June 13 because I think you had identified $0.15 from the operating itinerary changes and $0.05 from fuel and FX and it would appear that in the last week with fuel having backed up a little bit that maybe you got a little bit of that effect in terms of fuel costs back.
So I just wanted to know if just a point of clarification if your guidance today reflects any of that change in the last 10 days or so? Yes it was just basically we updated for fuel and currency and so that $0.05 went away.
Everything else pretty much stayed the same.
Yes our announcement would have had a $0.20 drop in our forward guidance and in effect -- in fact we wound up with a $0.15 and the only difference was the update in fuel and currency.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from David Liebowitz of Horizon Kinetics.
Briefly what is the impact of the Mexican situation? I noticed that Princess is moving out of at least one of their ports in Mexico? Yes that's just happened -- go ahead Howard.
Yes you can go ahead Howard.
I mean Mexico there are some problems spots.
But generally Mexico seems to be okay.
Certainly east coast of Mexico doesn't seem to be a problem at all right now.
West coast seems -- occasionally something comes up but our sailings are doing okay so far.
So we've got -- I think there has been some reduced capacity in the Southern California market so that's been helpful.
So we seem to be okay in Mexico.
Princess announced yesterday a cancellation of Puerto Vallarta.
That just happened yesterday.
As I said I was in Barcelona so I don't have the details of what happened.
But in reality while we have had cancellations primarily in Mazatlan we have not had any issue with any passenger in that location.
So hopefully if we can get the State Department to clarify their warnings since ports have not really been impacted -- but I think Princess was reacting more to the State Department.
But again it just happened yesterday and I really can't give you a whole lot of color on it right now.
And the second question if the earnings come in in that $2.40 to $2.50 range that you gave guidance on today what number should we be using as our baseline starting 2012 if we add all the one-off items back into the number? I thought that's what you're supposed to do? Well once you've given guidance Howard we're not embarrassed to ask for further guidance.
I don’t know I mean there are so many -- there are several one-offs here and we have to take a look at it.
Look when you look at the whole year what happened in 2011 fuel has been the major driver to the reduced guidance and it depends on where you price fuel.
But if you price fuel where it is today and we're off to a relatively good start in 2012 I think you have to look at -- 2012 I think you need a base here.
I think you look at 2012 as a fresh start so to speak.
But you note the yield guidance we took down as a result of MENA.
You can factor some of that in and then some of the one-offs but that's it.
The biggest item is the 1.5 points of yield guidance relating to MENA.
But then you're going to have to be the economist to tell us what GDP will be in Europe and what GDP will be in the United States and maybe we'll give you some more guidance.
I mean we're greatly encouraged by what's happening in North America despite what everybody says is a struggling economy.
Our business seems to be pretty good right now which is a major major positive and somewhat surprising.
I think people may have delayed their vacation decisions and we're starting to see that now during wave season.
We're starting to see people coming back into the market both here and in Europe.
I think a lot of that is going on.
The people will take their vacations though.
And we'll go through that whole process David and we'll give you our guidance in December taking all those events into account.
What was interesting is that at -- who knows what will be happening in the Middle East over the next 6 months? But the reality is prior to the demonstrations in Tunisia and in Cairo despite a huge industry capacity increase in Europe our advanced bookings prior to all that happening were very very strong and very encouraging on all brands.
So you would hope that we would go back to that kind of booking level.
But of course it's all subject that things at some point settle down and these governments either get changed or whatever that there’s some sort of resolution to these issues.
Just taking -- I mean this is more anecdotal than anything else but Seabourn which has struggled the last couple of years as it expanded capacity now just took on a third ship 2 weeks ago and Micky was there for the naming ceremony last night.
And their business has really come back nicely.
And that's at the really luxury end of the market.
So we're very encouraged by what we're seeing even at the luxury end.
So the premium luxury cruises and even the contemporary products in North America the demand is very strong right now.
So we're very encouraged.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Thomas of Nomura.
I think the impression that I think you’re going to be giving is very much that the MENA impact that you’re seeing this year is very much down to the short notice at which you had to make redeployments across your fleet.
In that regard I wonder whether you could just sort of talk a little bit about planning for next year? Obviously you have already indicated that you've made some redeployments into the first quarter of next year but probably not beyond that.
Is that sort of how you're going to look at this a sort of maybe a 6 to 9 months ahead of sailings you’ll look to make decisions based on the environment that you can see at that point in time? And maybe sort of 3 months from now you’ll probably have an update for us on how you might be thinking about the second quarter for next year? Well we'd love to be able to make these decisions prior to getting into the peak booking curves for these periods and that didn't happen this year.
On the other hand events have an impact on our decisions as well.
As you know Egypt has called for elections in September and the impact of those elections will either be very positive or not and that could obviously affect the decisions.
So you have the combination of trying to make your decisions far enough out so you're outside the peak booking curve so you don't have the disruption from a booking point of view.
On the other hand you do have to deal with events as they occur and try to understand what's happening on the ground.
The next question comes from Sharon Zackfia of William Blair.
A couple of quick questions I think most everything has been answered.
But I know you are encouraged by North America relative to what's happening for the European and Asian and Australian brands.
But I'm just curious given how concerned people are on the street is North America as good as you had expected when you entered the year? I think so.
I mean we had a period a low I think earlier.
And then we've picked up nicely.
I think the only area that I think that is a little bit disappointing but it's also the MENA effect is the European business for the North American brands which started off very very strong and then seemed to have tapered off during this period of the political unrest.
And so we lost a little bit of momentum.
But the impact of that to be honest with you is not all that significant in the overall numbers.
Alaska is much better than thought Caribbean's coming in just fine as David indicated.
I mean bookings have been strong.
Exotic bookings world cruises all of that seems to be quite good yes.
Okay and then just one follow-up question.
There were a lot of questions on potentially redeploying some of the Mediterranean cruises next year.
Even though the Med's down I'm just wondering is this still higher yielding than other potential regions that you would redeploy to if the issues persist in the Middle East and North Africa? Well those decisions are -- those are revenue management decisions based on what the people who are studying the various itineraries and what they can -- what kind of revenues and yields they can bring to the total revenue picture.
And so I don't think we're in a position to tell you specifically where revenue is better in one trade versus another trade.
They make those decisions whether they go to North Europe whether they go to the Caribbean whether they go Eastern Med whether they go Western Med whether they go to South America.
It is very complicated and it's not -- there's no easy answer to that other than they look to optimize their revenue by going into those itineraries and those trades that will give them the best possible revenue yield.
I should also say this though that often the decision on revenue yield it's not just solely a revenue yield decision it's an operating income decision for that particular program so that they look at fuel costs as well in terms of coming down to an operating margin that makes the most sense.
So they tend to look at the operating margin first and then revenue yield as a function of that more.
So that's what's more focused on.
Yes I think we can wrap it up now Tina.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect all lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks everybody.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for standing by.
And welcome to the Carnival Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is recorded on Tuesday September 20 2011.
It's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer at Carnival Corp.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Pam and good morning everyone or good afternoon depending on where you are.
This is Howard Frank.
I'm here with Micky Arison our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; David Bernstein our Senior VP of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Beth Roberts our VP of Investor Relations.
I will -- I'm going to turn the first part of the commentary over to David Bernstein who'll provide you color on the third quarter and our cost outlook for the fourth quarter.
David? Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that as some of our remarks in this conference call will be forward-looking I will refer to you the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currency unless otherwise noted as this is a much better indicator of business trends.
Our EPS for the third quarter was $1.69.
The third quarter came in $0.07 above the midpoint of our June guidance.
The $0.07-per-share improvement was driven by both net revenue yield and cost as each were $0.05 better than expected.
The total operational improvement of $0.10 was partially offset by a $0.02 charge related to the sale of Costa Marina which leaves the fleet in November 2011 and $0.01 from fuel prices and currency exchange rates combined.
The $0.05 net revenue yield improvement resulted from better-than-expected last-minute pricing.
In our June guidance we slightly overestimated the negative impact from the conflict in the Middle East and North Africa commonly referred to as MENA on our strong summer booking season.
However we believe we slightly underestimated the impact of MENA on the seasonally weaker fourth quarter.
So only $0.02 of the $0.05 improvement in net revenue yields for the third quarter flows through to the full year September guidance.
In total for the back half of the year yields are expected to be slightly better than our June guidance.
On the cost side a portion of the $0.05 improvement from June guidance was due to timing so only $0.03 of the $0.05 improvement in costs for the third quarter flows through to the full year September guidance.
Now let's take a look at our third quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 5% with the majority of the increase coming from our European Australian and Asian brands or as we call them our EAA brands.
Our EAA brands grew 7% while our North American brands grew 3%.
Our net revenue yields increased almost 3% in the third quarter with similar increases in both net ticket and net onboard and other yields.
With respect to net ticket yield the North American brands were up almost 6% despite the negative impact from MENA on European itineraries.
The improvement was driven by higher yield in Alaska Caribbean and Mexican Riviera itineraries.
Our EAA brands which are primarily cruising in Europe during the third quarter were down 2%.
The yield decline was primarily driven by the impact of MENA on these itineraries.
In net onboard and other yields we experienced over a 2% increase.
The increase was also driven by our North American brands as our EAA brands were impacted from MENA itinerary changes that resulted in lower shore excursion revenues and slightly lower spending in other areas.
On the cost side net cruise costs excluding the Costa Marina charge and fuel per available lower berth day were up 2% versus the prior year.
We continue to see inflationary pressures in food cost freight crew travel and other hotel costs that were anticipated and discussed on the last 2 conference calls.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption per available lower berth day declined 4% this quarter continuing our multiyear savings trend.
In total this represents a 13% savings from 2007.
Fuel prices this quarter were 45% higher than last year which cost us $0.23 per share.
Partially offsetting the increase in fuel price was the weaker dollar which had a favorable impact of $0.10 per share.
In summary the third quarter EPS improved over 4% to $1.69 per share.
Before turning to our 2011 outlook I want to update you on our current stock repurchase program.
As we previously indicated stock buybacks could be used opportunistically to efficiently return cash to shareholders.
In mid-August we restarted our stock buyback program.
Since then we repurchased 14.5 million shares at an average price of $31 for a total of $445 million.
At the present time we have $343 million remaining on the existing general stock repurchase authorization program.
It should be noted that on a combined basis the recent share repurchases and our 2011 full year paid dividend represents 135% of forecasted free cash flow for the year.
Now turning to the 2011 outlook for the full year.
I'll skip net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
On the cost side for the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel are forecasted to be up 1% which is the same as our June guidance excluding the charge relating to the Costa Marina.
At this point I'll turn the call back over to Howard.
Thank you David.
My comments this morning will focus on our revenue yield outlook for the first half of 2012 since the fourth quarter of 2011 revenue picture is largely baked right now.
Later in my report I will separately comment on fourth quarter revenue yields.
For the first half of 2012 fleet-wide capacity will increase approximately 4.6%.
Pricing per bookings taken to date for the first and second quarter are nicely higher than a year ago with occupancy flat in the first quarter and lower in the second quarter versus the same quarters in 2011.
For the first half of 2012 North American brand pricing increases were stronger than EAA pricing but both markets show nicely higher pricing at this time.
On a fleet-wide basis our bookings taken during the last 13 weeks for the first half of 2012 are higher year-over-year at higher pricing.
Booking volumes and pricing are higher for both North America and EAA brands.
While pricing during the earlier part of the 13-week period had been strong in more recent weeks we have seen a modest falloff in bookings and pricing.
This began in August largely as a result of the debt ceiling political circus in Washington and the related meltdown in the U.S.
equity markets during the month.
In Europe the sovereign debt issues and the related concerns about the strength of the European banks contributed to the slowdown in EAA brand bookings.
These issues together with related declines in consumer confidence in the various markets in which we operate seem to have contributed to the softened booking activity during this August and early September period.
Although fleet-wide bookings during the last 6-week period covering the next 3 quarters were not as strong as earlier in the quarter on an absolute basis volumes for the 6-week period were higher year-over-year with pricing on these bookings slightly lower than a year ago.
So even during this difficult August and September period bookings have held up quite well which is a testament to the resiliency of our cruise business in that even in a weak economic environment the consumer will continue to book their vacations especially the value-based cruise vacations.
Given the high percentage of business already booked in quarter one of 2012 it does appear that first quarter 2012 yields will be higher than a year ago.
I will provide more specific information on our booked business by quarter later in my comments.
For the full year we are now guiding earnings to a range of $2.40 to $2.44 a share or a midpoint of $2.42.
This is a slight change from previous guidance and results from currency and fuel working against us by approximately $0.06 a share a loss on the sale of a ship about $0.02 a share that David referred to.
This $0.08 combining the $0.06 and the $0.02 to get the $0.08 earnings per share negative impact is offset by improved revenue pricing of a couple of pennies a share and reduced costs of $0.03 a share.
2012 we have 3 ships scheduled for delivery: the Costa Fascinosa in April; the AIDAmar in May and the Carnival Breeze in May.
Fleet-wide capacity is expected to increase by 4.5% in 2012 3.5% for North America brands and 6% for EAA brands.
By quarter Q1 2012 capacity is up 4.9%; second quarter of 2012 is up 4.2%; third and fourth quarter of 2012 are up each by 4.4%.
Now some color on each of the next 3 quarters.
Turning to this fourth quarter that we're in right now the fourth quarter of 2011 on a fleet-wide basis capacity is up 5.8% 3.2% for our North America brands and 10.10% for EAA brands.
Local currency pricing on a fleet-wide basis for the fourth quarter is higher year-over-year with occupancies at a slightly lower level than last year.
The North America brands we have very little inventory left to sell at this point but for EAA brands we still have some amount of inventory left to sell.
This is primarily related to Mediterranean cruise itineraries which -- many of which had to be changed over the summer as a result of the problems in the Middle East and North Africa as we've told you in the past.
North American brands are 42% in the Caribbean in the fourth quarter down from 50% last year; 14% in Europe versus 9% last year; and 10% in the Orient Pacific area about the same as last year.
The balance is in various other itineraries.
North American brand occupancies in the fourth quarter are at approximately the same levels as last year.
North American brand pricing is nicely higher than a year ago and booking volumes for North America brands in the fourth quarter continues to be solid at higher year-over-year prices.
By the time the fourth quarter closes we expect North American brand pricing to be nicely higher.
EAA brands are 71% in Europe versus 64% last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
EAA occupancies are lower than a year ago primarily attributable to the changed itineraries for our Med cruises.
Although occupancies for Med cruises have caught up significantly they are still behind last year.
Pricing for EAA brands itineraries is behind last year primarily attributable to the late booking of the Med cruises.
By the time the quarter ends we expect local currency EAA pricing to be lower than a year ago.
On a fleet-wide basis for the fourth quarter we are forecasting higher local currency revenue yields in the 1% to 2% range driven by the stronger pricing for the North American brands offset by the lower pricing for the EAA brands.
Now turning to first quarter of 2012.
As I indicated capacity is 4.9% higher than last year 4.5% for North America brands 5.7% for EAA brands.
At the present time fourth -- first quarter occupancies on a fleet-wide basis are approximately flat year-over-year with pricing nicely higher.
North American brands in the first quarter are 66% in the Caribbean approximately the same as last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
The Caribbean pricing is nicely higher than a year ago on approximately the same occupancies as last year.
Pricing for all other itineraries taken together in the first quarter is also higher than a year ago also on approximately the same occupancies.
EAA brands are 22% in the Caribbean versus 20% a year ago; 19% in Europe down from 33% last year; 18% in South America up slightly from 16% last year; with the balance in other itineraries.
For all EAA itineraries taken together local currency pricing is higher than a year ago at approximately the same year-over-year occupancies.
With a good percentage of our bookings for the first quarter done as I previously mentioned we are forecasting that revenue yield for the quarter will be higher than a year ago.
Now turning to the second quarter of 2012.
Fleet-wide capacity is up 4.2% 2.9% for North America brands and 6.3% for EAA brands.
At the present time on a fleet-wide basis local currency pricing is nicely higher than a year ago with occupancies running behind last year.
While the second quarter booking picture is encouraging from a pricing standpoint it's still early in the booking cycle so I caution not to read too much into the second quarter booking picture at this time.
North American brands are 56% in the Caribbean approximately the same levels as last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
Caribbean pricing is nicely higher than a year ago at slightly lower occupancies.
All other itineraries taken together are also nicely higher than a year ago also at lower occupancies.
EAA brands are 53% in Europe down from 55% last year with the balance in various other markets.
EAA brand pricing for European cruises is higher than last year on slightly lower occupancies.
Pricing for all other EAA brand itineraries taken together is also higher than a year ago at lower occupancies.
Although occupancies in the second quarter are lower than a year ago they are not significantly behind.
And talking to our brand executives there is a general view that because of the continuing stream of negative economic news and the related decline -- and more recently the related decline in consumer confidence consumers are delaying their decisions to take their cruise vacations with the result that the booking curve for 2012 has come closer in.
So that's sort of the status of the second quarter where we're seeing the closer in booking curve taking effect.
And with that I will -- Pam I will turn it back to you and we'll start to take some questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Sir our first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So Howard you have given us some good color as usual and you've also given us some caution on just the recent booking picture given everything that's going on in the world starting in August.
A few things.
One is do you have -- what is your confidence that your outlook for the first quarter remains stable? I know that you said it's largely booked but those last-minute bookings always kind of affect things.
And then for the second quarter do you -- what is your optimism that you can end with pricing and occupancy up? On the first quarter I think -- and I think we saw this in the fourth -- on the third quarter of 2011 our late bookings seem to be holding up quite well versus year-ago pricing so I think we feel fairly confident on where we stand on Q1.
Where it exactly comes in from a yield improvement standpoint it's -- I don't think we want to venture right now.
But we are nicely ahead right now from a pricing standpoint.
So even with a little bit of a downdraft we should be just fine in the first quarter.
I think less so confidence in the second quarter simply because we just -- we don't have as large a percentage of our business booked in the second quarter as we have in the first quarter naturally.
And we have seen started to see some evidence of the booking curve coming in.
I think consumers are delaying their vacation decisions.
It seems clear any major spend decisions because of lower consumer confidence seems to be people are pulling back on it.
But at the end of the day and talking to our brand managers they seem to be pretty confident that the business will be there at the end of the day and so I think they're more confidence in holding price.
Felicia one of the things you have to keep in mind is that when we talk year-over-year this time last year bookings were very very strong.
We didn't feel the impact of MENA and all that stuff until starting in January first quarter of last year.
So the fact that we're okay versus last year's pattern now if we don't have a repeat of the MENA situation or similar or a tsunami in Japan and all that other stuff then the comparisons should get easier as we get into the second quarter.
So our level of confidence all things being equal if there isn't another major geopolitical event should be pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then Howard can you just tell us -- you've talked -- you said a few times that the booking curve has come in.
Can you just quantify that? And then I'm wondering if someone could just tell us how the company is deployed in the Med for this summer '12 season.
Yes.
No I mean it's come in only a small amount so far.
Remember when I talk about booking curve I'm talking about 9 different brands so -- and when I give you that data I'm looking at 9 different brands and their booking curves.
Some are better than others but we start to see some evidence especially to some degree in the U.S.
markets a little bit in the European markets and the U.K.
markets.
It's hard to tell because of the MENA impact but it appeared to have started to move in a little bit in the spring so it's not recent.
It's not the last 6 weeks.
I mean it started to move in after the MENA impact.
And of course when you got that many itineraries moving it becomes really hard to see what's exactly happening.
But it's moved a little bit in and it seems to have started sometime in the spring.
As to your second question I don't have the Med broken out from Europe but I do have Europe and the Med combined.
It's about 49% 50% for 2012.
It was very virtually the same in total for 2011; it was 49%.
Full year '12 Med is 19%.
Europe...
No she said summer third quarter.
For '12? Yes.
It's 25% for the Med and 26% for Europe without the Med.
I would say that we have modified especially Costa which was most impacted by the MENA impact and Ibero and to some degree AIDA.
They've already -- particularly Costa have already modified a lot of itineraries to mitigate any possible future problems next year.
That's not to say that we don't have any of those countries on our itineraries.
We do have some but we've scaled back quite a bit and have less -- quite a bit less than we had this time last year.
And I think it's important to keep in mind that we know what we're confronting going into our European itineraries in the Med this coming year at this point in time.
So what -- I think our ability to react quicker now rather than as we reacted later in the spring of last year will give us the ability to mitigate the effects if there are any effects this year.
If we do have to react we'd have to react with a lot fewer itineraries impacted.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Steve Kent from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First and maybe Micky could handle this one.
On the free cash flow story it looks to me like you're going to generate about $2 billion in free cash flow next year.
You've kept supply in check.
So could you talk about how the board is thinking about a dividend increase? And the reason why I think it's so important at this point is that it would signal both that you're returning cash to shareholders in a very efficient way besides the share buyback and that you're going to keep your supply growth in check.
And then second Howard can you just define for me just because I haven't heard it in a while what "nicely" really means? Has that definition changed over time? So is now "nicely" up 1% to 2% versus a few years ago where it was up 3% to 4%? If you could just give us a general sense of what "nicely" means that might be helpful.
Maybe Micky answer "nicely" too.
I don't use "nicely." You guys can decide that.
Steve I'll go through your question on the cash flow and the dividends.
Essentially we have been very open about our dividend policy.
We've talked about a 30% to 40% payout on the regular quarterly dividend.
Right now we're at $1 a share.
I mean you can do the math and you can see where the numbers are.
We are committed to the 2 to 3 ships a year and we are -- the board is -- we've talked to the board and we are committed to returning all of the excess all the free cash flow over and above the CapEx to shareholders.
As you can see this year we returned 135% already with the stock repurchases.
So I think the commitment for the reduced capacity is there.
We've talked about the 2 to 3 ships and there's not -- for '12 and '13 those numbers are locked in and you know what's on order for the future years at this point.
Okay Steve I'm going to try "nicely" on you.
The way I -- when I look at the numbers to me when we talk about "flattish " I usually mean flat between plus or minus 1%.
When I say "up " it means better than 1%.
But I mean not just 1.2% though.
And when I say "nicely up " it means well north of just being up.
So without quantifying it for you -- I'm getting a lot of applause here.
They've all asked me the same question...
Research Division</strong> Yes I think you are on the conference call too.
But it is -- it means it's a stronger pricing improvement than you would -- than just than saying that it's just up.
I hope that clarifies it for you Steve....
Research Division</strong> So Howard if you ever say like holy -- I'm sorry if you ever say like "Holy cow things are really good " is that like up 10%? I mean...
That's not my answer [indiscernible]...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was helpful and David I appreciate your answer.
By the way I'd reiterate David's answer.
You asked me the question but I would -- the key underlying item in that question I think was will we maintain discipline on the newbuilding side? And the answer to that is yes we will.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Robin Farley of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions.
One is I just wanted to circle back to the idea of the ports that you'd be revisiting in 2012 in the Middle East and North Africa.
I don't know if you quantified -- this past year it was originally I think 7% to 8% of your itineraries.
But for 2012 at this point what percent of your itineraries would be touching those -- any of those ports again? Why don't we do this? Why don't we -- we'll see if we can pull that together for you because I don't think -- they have it but they don't have it in their books for the moment.
It was about -- it was 9.5% of this year's itineraries were impacted.
And I believe if I remember correctly we did analysis.
We reduced our exposure by about 12%.
So there was a reduction in the number of itineraries that went to the affected regions.
Costa replaced some of -- replaced Tunisia with some islands off the coast of Italy.
They took ships out of Egypt and went to the Greek Isles and the Holy Land.
So there were a number of changes that resulted in that 12% reduction.
I could say Costa basically reworked their entire 2012 Med program and rereleased their program a couple of weeks ago.
So it's not that easy to say because rather than have itineraries overlapping they kind of took a "fresh piece of paper" approach and have a lot of new programs that they're feeling very very excited about.
When in reality when they have to react last-minute they really couldn't -- they couldn't look at it in the same way.
So I think they've taken a fresh approach.
They've basically done the kind of itineraries that their nationality of passenger will really enjoy.
And those nationalities were most impacted Italian French Spanish by the MENA issues.
So I don't think we can quantify at this point.
Maybe Beth? It looks like last -- the total impact that we had in 2011 in the Middle East and North African region was roughly 10% and is expected to be 8.5% in 2012.
But the 8.5% will be in -- at ports of call that were not as challenged let's say as they were last year like Egypt and Tunisia.
Yes Costa traded Egypt for the Greek Isles and the Holy Land cruises.
They traded Tunisia for islands off the coast of Italy.
In total their Med deployment is flat.
So it's left trips to Egypt or touching Tunisia.
And the incremental capacity was deployed away from the Med to the winter Caribbean South America Northern Europe the Far East and Asia so they dispersed it everywhere else outside the Med.
Now they're still going down to Dubai and selling out of -- in places like that those cruises are doing okay.
Yes they still have cruises out of Dubai and Sharm el-Sheikh but less capacity.
They've cut their capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Now that's helpful.
And then the second question is can you just remind us for your ships what are sort of outstanding just kind of which have financing in place and which would still be in the process in terms of anything that was guaranteed export credit facilities in the contracts just in light of a lot of changes going on with European banks just kind of...
Sure yes.
We've got 10 ships on order.
The only one that does not have financing associated with it is the Costa Favolosa for 2012 -- Fascinosa sorry for 2012.
The other 9 7 are already signed and done and we're working on the last 2.
So we will have export credits for the other 9.
We just haven't finished the last 2 with the AIDA ships that we ordered in Germany.
But the contracts were subject to financing.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And so -- and I'm sorry you said for the Fascinosa for next year that the financing is done for that.
No.
No.
That's the only ship.
It's the 1 out of 9 that we didn't lock in export credit.
It's complicated but export credit for an Italian shipyard for Italian flagship is not -- it's complicated.
So we passed on that one because it's not an export.
Not an export.
You can't get an export credit if you're not exporting.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Janet Brashear of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit about discounting for 2012.
Some travel agents have said that they feel that the discounting for all of 2012 feels stronger than they might have expected.
As you look at your pricing I know you said earlier that the brand managers are trying to hold price believing that consumer confidence may still rebound.
Are you feeling like the discounting environment is normal for this time as pre-bookings for 2012? I think if -- there are a lot of sales going on and programs going on.
Most of that Janet would be for more closer in business as opposed -- and some of it is not dissimilar to what we've done in prior years.
So when the travel agents see it I'm not sure they see it in the same way we see it in terms of our yield management systems and what we need to do to get it done.
In many cases we do go out with different kinds of programs but -- and they may -- we may do them in a little bit different way than we've done in past years.
So they don't have the ability to really understand from the apples-to-apples comparisons that we work with in terms of our pricing.
But yes it is out there.
It is out there sure.
It's always out there though.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
A quick question too.
You had talked about a fuel cost protection program.
I won't say hedging because I think you were doing something different which was just protecting at the extreme cost swing level.
Is that progressing? Yes.
We're working on -- off of the administrative back office that we put in place in the systems controls and procedures.
But we haven't started doing anything yet and that's at some point in the near future and when we start we'll let everybody know.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
The first is you've mentioned that in 2011 you'll be returning about 145% of your expected free cash flow to shareholders.
To what degree would you be willing to use your balance sheet over a longer-term period to repurchase stock? I mean generally speaking we've talked about returning free cash flow I think in this particular year where there was an opportunity to buy back stock at a quite attractive price and we had the program already in place to do it.
We decided to go ahead and do it and to running a little bit faster than free cash flow for 2011.
But I think over the long haul I think that the thinking is that debt levels would remain relatively constant and we'd use free cash flow to buy back stock and/or increase dividends.
Research Division</strong> And if you could just give us -- or remind us rather the range of net debt to EBITDA that you feel comfortable with.
What we're really looking at in terms of -- we look at it more in terms of ratings.
And what we're looking at is -- an A- credit rating is what we're generally targeting as opposed to a net debt to EBITDA.
Although if you look at the S&amp;P A- will equate to somewhere between 2 and 2.5x roughly speaking.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then just a bigger picture question.
And it's really a philosophical industry question.
The airline industry over the past few years has taken 10% to 15% of their capacity out and they've enjoyed a relatively strong increase in pricing power.
And next year the cruise industry is still going to see about a 4% increase in capacity.
And I'm just wondering if you've thought about the positive impact that you might see on pricing if the industry itself reduced capacity.
And by the same token what would be the argument against it? The challenge to reduce capacity although we do -- over time we do try to sell off some of our older tonnage if we can get reasonable prizes for them.
But it's unlike the airline industry.
It's not easy to get -- to move out your older ships.
Also newer ships give us so much better economies of scale that we're inclined to order newer ships larger ships that give us the scale benefits and returns that we can't get on the older tonnage.
But over time we will move out over time.
Will we ever get to a flat or down capacity year-over-year from a cruise industry standpoint? I don't know.
I mean I don't -- we still see huge potential to grow our business in certain markets and I think when we order ships today we're ordering it for those markets where we believe we can continue to grow our capacity at good profit improvement and improved return on invested capital.
So it is a much more targeted approach.
There could come a time when we stop ordering ships.
And for certain markets we've done that but not for other markets.
So I think it is a much targeted approach if that answers your questions Harry.
We're going to continue on.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Howard could you give us a little bit more detailed color on how things have trended on a regional booking basis particularly for European-sourced passengers since that August period? I guess for the Northern European or western itineraries looking into the first half of next year versus the Southern European itineraries.
I don't -- to be honest with you Tim I don't have that information.
All I looked at it was from the parts of Europe...
The European you're talking for next summer? Next summer? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes Micky yes.
It's way too early for places like Italy France and Spain.
I mean Costa just issued their revised brochure 2 weeks ago and they just started taking bookings.
So it's way too early for those countries to be commenting on next year.
And Northern Europe tends to be a much shorter season starting later and ending earlier so it's -- they're not comparable between Europe and -- Northern Europe and the Med.
Med will start to go out a little bit earlier.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess then the root of the question is you haven't seen any major shifts since prior to the beginning of August in the patterns of bookings for Northern Europeans versus Southern Europeans.
I haven't looked at it from that standpoint to be honest with you.
I just -- I'm just looking -- it's tough enough to take 9 different businesses pull it all together and come up with an answer directionally that makes sense.
But to start to analyze it itinerary drive by itinerary by business by business and to give it to you it wouldn't make a lot of sense and it would take a long time to do that.
And it's just not possible to try to take all the information pull it together and do it in a way that gives you proper and good direction in terms of how the business overall is going.
I would say that for the European brands clearly they've had very strong last-minute bookings which is a combination of things.
I think it's economy but I think it's also the fact because of MENA there was more availability last minute than there were in prior years because of the -- like all the itinerary changes.
And they filled so -- and when you look at the bottom line for the third quarter they were down 2 points which considering everything that happened this year that's not a terrible result.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
No a very fair answer.
And then what -- at this point as you see the world and based on what the brand managers are telling you what are you looking at as far as in FY '12 the recovery out of what was triggered through the tsunami impact and the earthquakes in Asia? And then relative to -- are you looking for any recovery from the MENA area in particular? And then I guess the other part would be you cited the U.K.
as being a little tepid if I interpreted your remarks correctly.
How are you looking at that year-over-year from -- as you see the world today and what the brand managers are flowing up? Well what the brand managers are telling me is really more anecdotal based on what's happened in the last 4 or 6 weeks or so so I wouldn't want to give you an overall sense of what 2012 looks like.
I do think it's too early.
We are all over now in Europe and starting our meetings with our brand managers on reviewing 2012 budgets.
Later on in September early October we'll be doing the same with our U.S.
brands.
And so I'm always a little bit uncomfortable right now given the fact that it's September talking too much about 2012 because I don't think we feel comfortable doing it yet.
I mean there are a lot of very positive things out there.
I talked about the yields the positive pricing in Q1 and Q2 which we think is -- we're pleased with.
But I think given all the noise that we're hearing in the U.S.
and Europe about economic challenges I'd like to wait until December to give you more concrete and more concrete guidance on 2012 when we have a little bit more confidence in how it's going to shape up.
And so I hesitate to give you anything right now.
Even in December it's going to be -- we're going to do it but it's going to be tricky because again we're going to be looking at comparisons that didn't have any of the MENA impact yet.
And again at December last year we were looking at a very very strong year.
And things started to come apart in the middle of January.
So when we're sitting and looking at year-over-year comparisons we're going to have to try to pattern in what's happened [indiscernible].
So it's going to make those predictions a little bit trickier than in the past.
The one thing that will definitely be a positive is 2011 had the short-term disruption of all those itinerary changes and all those cancellations and hopefully we won't -- as Micky mentioned before we won't see that again in 2012 and that would be a year-over-year positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> And to your point I think Micky earlier you mentioned that given all that and you had strong bookings at this time last year you're already -- from what you're seeing right now it's still fairly fairly solid given that you're going to get those strong comps at this point in time.
Yes I think the point Howard made was well taken.
We were booking very strongly into the spring and early summer.
Again part of that was the fact that we had all the disruptions so we had a lot more capacity available close in.
But part of it was obvious demand especially for the peak holiday season.
But despite a slowdown in August and early September we were up year-over-year.
And that's a good sign but there's no question that people are tightening their belt a little bit and making decisions a little bit later based -- because of everything that's going on and what they're watching on television every day.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Kevin Milota of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just was wondering if you could give some updated thoughts on where you are from a fuel hedging perspective.
Understandably you guys don't do that now but there's been some commentary in the past that you were thinking about more of a fuel insurance going forward.
And then also from a MENA perspective not to beat a dead horse here but was wondering is it possible to quantify what sort of drag pricing is going to have next year? Or maybe you could speak to it in terms of how long do you think it will take to get back to pre-turmoil levels in terms of pricing for those itineraries? You want to go ahead on the answer? Yes.
As far as the fuel hedging I mean we've talked about our philosophy a number of times on fuel hedging.
And the kind of program we're looking at is more of fuel insurance.
And the example I think I've used historically could be something like a 0 cost collar with a wide collar so that if fuel did spike up we have some protection.
Those are the types of things we're looking at doing and I mentioned before we're putting together the administrative back office to begin to do that at some point in the future.
Yes Kevin on the MENA pricing for 2012 versus 2011 I think that certainly we're hopeful that we'll see some nice improvement in pricing versus 2011 given the lateness of the changes in the itinerary due to disruption not only to the MENA cruises but to all of our Med cruises resulting from the last-minute changes and the rebooking patterns that we had to go through.
How much of that will be -- I think it's still too early to say.
Will we recapture everything we lost? I don't think so.
I don't think we're even -- we're thinking in those terms.
But we do think we'll start to see some improvement but it may take us a couple of years to get back to the levels of pricing that we enjoyed pre-MENA.
Just to put it in perspective I mean we did say that the MENA impact this year in 2011 was about a 1.5 points of yield which just kind of gives you a total perspective of the magnitude of the issue.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
It's Jeff Hans on behalf of Greg.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the tactical promotions or discounts out there today? And is that any different than sort of what you've seen during past periods of volatile bookings? Or has it been a bit more aggressive? We've discounted sale and it's part of a marketing strategy.
Again if we were talking for 1 or 2 brands it would be much easier to answer your question.
Every one of our brands has different kind of promotions different tactics different sales.
They have them virtually every year not necessarily at the exact same time.
They all watch their booking curves.
They all have trend lines and when they get below the trend line they may activate a discount program where if they get above it they'll pull it back and so on.
It's a lot of moving pieces and it doesn't -- other than the fact that you've got all this noise going on because of what's going on in Washington and what's going on in Wall Street and also in Europe obviously with the financial crisis in Europe all that noise is just making it really difficult to tell.
But like we've said a number of times in the call today our volumes are still up year-over-year.
So it does not feel like any different than -- it definitely doesn't feel like '08 where we saw significant drop off.
It doesn't feel anything like that.
No.
It's nothing like that.
You did see when you look sort of from the springtime until now an ebb and flow to bookings.
In some weeks they're very strong and other weeks are not as strong and at the end of the month we kind of look at the overall and so far it's been positive.
And remember we can move business.
So you're not quite sure if you have a strong booking month if it's because we're moving business at lower prices or -- and if we pull back and our business -- and our booking volumes are lower it's because we may have pulled pricing up.
And you're talking about 8 or 10 8 or 9 different yield management systems.
And each business approaches yield management in different ways.
So it is really difficult to talk about a particular program of moving business and how it's affecting that particular business.
Looking at it from -- we look at it from a global standpoint.
Right.
Yes I didn't mean as much you guys.
I meant just from what you're seeing out there given the volatility over the last 4 to 6 weeks.
And I mean there's been periods of volatility obviously over the past 12-plus months.
But just wondering if you've seen other players out there discounting a bit more aggressively than other periods of volatility.
Or has it been just a sort of normal course of business? You do see tactical pricing and every once in a while one of our -- I'll have a conversation or Micky will or David will with a brand manager and saying "Our competitors are doing this at this ridiculous price in this particular market." But it's usually for a particular cruise that they need to fill.
And we -- and sometimes we do the same thing.
So you can't really go too much by the anecdotal information.
I'd like to say that beyond the MENA itineraries which continue to be last-minute fill because there were so many changes beyond that I don't think it's any different than what we saw last year.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva from Infinity Research.
I had a quick question on Q4.
It seemed that implied yield guidance had previously been in the 2.4% range and now you're offering us 1% to 2%.
Is this primarily due to the slower August and September booking volumes? Or is it primarily because of Costa or a combination of the 2? It really is primarily as a result of the seasonal-ization of the MENA impact.
As I mentioned in my notes we had overestimated the impact on the third quarter and underestimated the negative impact of MENA on the fourth quarter.
So when everything came in and we started to look at it while the total impact of MENA we were very close and we felt good about that the yield difference is driven by those MENA itineraries.
We had expected MENA to be roughly 2% in the third quarter.
It turned out more like a 1.5%.
And in the fourth quarter we had expected it to be more like 0.5% -- 1.5% and it turned out to be more than 2%.
So it's just a forecasting estimate on our part and a flip-flop between the quarters.
Can I just say that when you consider that we changed 300 itineraries just before we gave you the second quarter guidance the fact that we're basically right on our guidance for the second half of the year I think is pretty remarkable.
Our folks did a great job of being able to forecast this far.
Now the fact that it's a little bit higher in one quarter a little bit lower in another quarter I mean come on.
You're moving 300 itineraries.
It's pretty good.
Now I think the thing to keep in mind is that for the second half of the year we actually came in yield wide a little bit -- just slightly better...
Slightly better.
Expected [ph] yes.
But it was a flip-flop between Q3 and Q4.
That's what you're seeing.
Okay okay.
And Micky I think we all appreciate how difficult it is and especially for the Costa brand what they have had to go through.
By the same measure is it possible that close in bookings might be helpful in Q4 not only in The Bahamas in the short Caribbean but also in Europe if you still have inventory available to sell more than in past years? We're pretty well along now so -- but if last-minute bookings are stronger than anticipated then we'll do a little bit better.
But we're pretty well booked for the quarter so we...
Typically the third quarter is the stronger summer season.
It has more opportunity for upside on close in pricing than with the shoulder periods.
Given stronger demand in Q3 you typically can get some upside.
Q4 is a little bit more challenging.
I think North America as I mentioned is substantially done right now.
And really what we need to do is some backfill still on the MENA sailings and that's really -- that's all that's significantly left.
So could it come in better than we anticipate? Sure but not -- there's not that much room no.
We're going to continue on.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Lyall from John W.
Bristol &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I've got a couple of questions.
Are you implicitly saying that the booking curve on the North American business has moved out? No.
No What we're saying is the booking curve on all our business has moved in a little bit.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But given the strength in pricing and the fact that you're already booked it's not saying that North America has moved out.
No.
No.
No the opposite it's moved in a little bit as well.
Okay.
Second question is historically when there's been uncertainty coming into a new year you've been aggressive on pricing.
And this time around you're holding off on the pricing card and saying "We're going to stick with what we got " and play the card later in the year if you need to.
Why the different philosophy? Well Rick let me just say this that I don't think there's any one philosophy here.
There are a multitude of philosophies on yield management and each brand manager approaches it -- can approach it very differently and what we're giving you is a blend of all that information.
So in some cases I think some people -- some of our brands will go in with a stronger pricing early on and hope to maintain it and move whatever inventory is left at the end at somewhat lower pricing.
Other brands will go in at -- early at lower pricing to begin with expect to fill and then move the volumes as they need to in order to fill up and so they're just different approaches each one will do and what we're giving you is a blend of all of them.
I don't think there's been any changes in the philosophy.
It's just yield management folks recognizing a movement in of the booking curve will retract the line of what they expect and want.
And so they will react a little bit later than they would have in a prior year with the booking curve further out.
Did that make sense? There's more uncertainty.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
It's a little bit riskier but you're betting that the booking curve has moved in.
And there's a lot of good anecdotal evidence to prove that it has and so you might as well play that curve rather than react too early.
No I understand.
I just think it's interesting you're doing things differently this time.
Last quick question is I think -- I thought Pier Foschi said that he had not changed itineraries for 2012 beyond first quarter of 2012.
So what occasioned the changes in itineraries? Did you decide that the situation could be more negative longer and you needed to deploy capacity differently? No.
You're reacting to a conversation I know we had in July correct? Inc.</strong> No I've had a conversation with him at dinner.
In July? In July? Inc.</strong> Whenever that was.
In July.
At the analyst meeting.
Whenever it was.
This is now September.
This is now September.
I just wanted to clarify that for everybody who wasn't at dinner.
The reality is since July we've had a number of conversations and the question became a mitigation of risk.
And so they basically went back to the drawing board took a clean piece of paper and said "Okay what is the best itineraries we can operate for our major nationalities and mitigate the MENA risk?" And that's what they did.
And they come up with a whole new set of itineraries some very very innovative ones I think.
It's some great ideas.
We're very hopeful that they'll be very successful but they had to go back to the drawing board reprint a brand new brochure for next spring and summer.
They've done that.
It's now in the marketplace but it's only been in the marketplace about 2 weeks so it will take some time to see how all that flies.
But we're very glad that they did that.
We think they've made a lot of good decisions and we'll see what happens 6 months from now.
The deployment changes were announced September 1.
And today is with the brochure...
Yes.
About [ph]...
To the [ph] brochure on that.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Jamie Rollo from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on costs.
I know you haven't done your budgets yet for next year but if we do see a bigger-than-expected downturn how much flexibility do you have to take further cost out? I know you took quite a big chunk out in '09 but do you think -- I mean do you have a sort of backup plan if things are quite tough? Jamie I mean we are always looking at ways to reduce cost.
We're not a business where we have a lot of fat in the business so when there's an economic downturn we can change our model and all of a sudden take all that fat.
We run very lean and we're constantly looking for ways to reduce cost.
So we're hoping we can offset the inflation next year.
We've told everybody our long-term cost guidance is flat to half of inflation.
Hopefully we'll be closer to flat than half of inflation as we work through all the cost savings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the other question was relating to a comment I think one that you made on maybe selling some more ships in the future some of the older ships.
I think you've got 7 or 8 ships that are 20 years or more in age.
I'm just wondering first does that have a meaningful impact on group net cruise costs just given these ships are significantly less efficient than modern ships? And also the loss you made on selling the Marina I know it's small but you didn't normally make book value losses when you sell ships so are you happy with the book value of your fleet today? Yes in terms of the book value of our fleet we're very happy.
You're picking on one ship.
But I did look at the last 8 ship sales.
It turns out that in the last 8 ship sales we had 4 gains and 4 losses.
The total cumulative net for the 8 was a positive I think it was $45 million.
So on these sales to have it turn out to be that way we felt very comfortable with our book value overall.
As far as the cost impact of selling these older ships I think the last time I looked those 7 ships represented about 3% of our overall capacity because remember they tend -- the older ships tend to be smaller so even if we sold all 7 of them I doubt you would see a dramatic change in our net cruise cost because it's just 3% to the total.
Gentlemen we have actually 2 more questions.
Our next question comes from David Leibowitz from Horizon Kinetics.
Inc.</strong> A few unrelated items.
Nothing was said about Alaska and China.
Could you update us on those 2 for 2012? Alaska was very very good in...
2012.
And I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be as good in '12.
It's way too early again to comment about third quarter of next year but we're very happy with the way it turned out in '11.
I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be similar in '12.
And we did -- Princess did announce one more ship for Alaska for 2012 so...
Yes traffic in Alaska is up 11% next year.
And then early signs for Alaska for the second quarter -- we have a few sailings in the second quarter -- are so far positive but I don't think you could take that too seriously right now.
The summer is really what drives it.
On China I think that it was a rough -- this certainly was a rough year for China given the problems in Japan and also the dislocation of itineraries and moving things around and cancellations and rebookings and so on.
So it was a tough year.
But we do think that 2012 will be better.
It's getting off to a better start but still very very early for the China booking season.
But we certainly are hopeful that we'll show some nice improvement in China in 2012.
Inc.</strong> Second question.
You have 9 brands.
You're adding 2 to 3 ships a year.
How many of your brand managers would like to have more capacity sooner? I think 9 of them would.
I mean all of them want to have more capacity.
I don't think there's one out there that doesn't believe that they can add ships and increase their profitability and their returns.
But we want to be -- we've given them their hurdle rates to do that and until they reach their hurdle rates they're not going to get those allocation -- that net allocation of capital.
The reality is all but 3 of our brands have newbuildings coming.
So I mean they're all focusing on...
They're all in the pipeline.
Yes they're all in the pipeline and have newbuilding coming.
Inc.</strong> You referred to hurdle rates.
Of the 9 brands how many of them are meeting their hurdle rates as we speak? Well I think a good number of them are and some are not.
And that's about as much as you're going to get from me on that.
What tends to happen is if you look at their newest ships they tend to meet the hurdle rates.
And those that have older smaller ships they tend to bring them down.
Keep in mind that the newer ships that we're building are twice the size of the average ship in the fleet.
And also the newer ships are considerably more fuel efficient than the average ship in the fleet so the returns for those ships tend to be quite a bit higher.
Inc.</strong> And the last question.
Several of your brands have discontinued brochures and tell everybody to just go onto the computer or at least this is what travel agents are telling me.
What is the dollar cost savings there? I have no idea.
All right David I mean it's probably less about cost savings.
It's more about efficiency and getting the travel agents and consumers to be more efficient and driving more electronic bookings and that sort of thing.
It is the future and we are moving along with that.
We're trying to move that along.
And by the way David that's occurred over a period of years that it wasn't a one-year phenomenon.
Inc.</strong> My question would be for a first-time passenger who has never sailed do they really get the same understanding of the cruise the same possessiveness and in looking forward to taking the sailing when they don't have a brochure? If they have a brochure -- I mean if they have a computer.
If they don't have a computer I guess they won't.
I don't know how many of our passengers don't own computers but...
Inc.</strong> In fact you can arguably get a much better picture on the computer with all of the videos and other things that we have to offer that you would never find in the brochure so.
Our final question comes from the line of Ian Rennardson from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think in the past you've said that at any one time you are between 55% and 75% booked for the next quarter.
Where are you in quarter one? And how does that compare to maybe this time last year? It is 55% to 75% booked and we are within that range for quarter one.
And I think Howard had mentioned we were flattish with...
Last year.
Flattish with last year correct.
Okay.
All right.
Okay gentlemen.
I think that will -- that can conclude it.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Thank you once again...
Thanks everybody.
Have a wonderful day...
Thanks everybody.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday December 20 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
With me this morning is Micky Arison our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; David Bernstein our Chief Financial Officer and Senior VP of Finance; and Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations.
Before I go to the outlook for 2012 I'll have David take you through our results for the fourth quarter and give you some color on that as well as our 2012 outlook for our cost metrics.
David? Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that some of the remarks on this conference call will be forward-looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currencies unless otherwise noted as this is a more useful measure of business trends.
Our earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.28.
The fourth quarter came in right at the midpoint of our September guidance.
Now let's take a look at the fourth quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 6% with 2/3 of the increase coming from our Europe Australia and Asian brands or as we call them our EAA brands.
Our EAA brands grew 10% while our North American brands grew 3%.
Our net ticket -- our net revenue yields increased 1.4% in the fourth quarter with similar increases in both net ticket and net onboard and other revenue yields.
With respect to net ticket revenue yields our North American brands were up almost 8% despite the negative impact from MENA on European itineraries.
The improvement was driven by higher yields in the Caribbean Alaska Canada New England and transatlantic itineraries.
Our EAA brands which are principally cruising in Europe during the fourth quarter were down over 6%.
The yield decline was primarily driven by the impact on MENA itineraries.
In net onboard and other revenue yields we experienced a 1.4% increase.
This increase was also driven by our North American brands as our EAA brands were impacted from MENA itinerary changes that resulted in lower occupancies lower shore excursion revenues and slightly lower spending in other areas.
On the cost side net cruise costs excluding fuel per available lower berth day were down 2% versus the prior year.
The decline was driven by ship incident repair costs in the prior year.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption per ALBD declined 4% this quarter continuing our multiyear savings trend.
In total this represents a 15% savings since 2005.
However fuel prices this quarter were 39% higher than last year which cost us $0.21 per share.
In summary the fourth quarter EPS was $0.28 lower than the 2010 earnings of $0.31 per share as increased yields and lower net cruise costs excluding fuel mostly offset higher fuel prices.
Looking at the full year 2011.
Our EPS was $2.42 which was slightly lower than the prior year's $2.47 as increased net revenue yields a 5% capacity increase and a favorable benefit from currency were more than offset by a 32% increase in the price of fuel.
For 2011 our net revenue yields increased 2%.
This was driven by an almost 4% improvement in our North American brands while our EAA brands were in line with the prior year despite all of their challenges.
Our 2011 EPS was $0.58 lower than the midpoint of the original guidance that we gave one year ago of $2.90 to $3.10 per share.
I think it's fair to say that 2011 was a year of unexpected challenges.
The geopolitical unrest in the Middle East and North Africa as well as the natural disaster in Japan resulted in over 300 itinerary changes which we estimate cost us $0.27.
Fuel prices increased 23% above our original guidance and while we benefited from currency the net effect of fuel and currency cost us an additional $0.41.
Absent these items we would have been at the high end of our original guidance range from a year ago.
In the end our operating companies performed very well mitigating the impact of MENA the European debt crisis recessionary fears and stock market volatility.
This is a testament to the quality of our management team the power of our brands and the value proposition of the cruise business.
Turning to cash flow.
As Micky indicated in the press release our cash from operations reached $3.8 billion which was more than enough to fund the ship expansion and refurbishment programs that required a capital investment of $2.7 billion leaving us with free cash flow of $1.1 billion.
Earlier in 2011 we increased our quarterly dividend to $0.25 per share.
Also during the year we opportunistically repurchased 14.8 million shares at an average price of $31 for a total of $455 million.
The majority of these shares were repurchased during the third quarter.
Only 300 000 shares were repurchased since our last conference call.
It should be noted that in 2011 the dividends paid and the share repurchases totaled $1.1 billion which represented all of our 2011 free cash flow.
Before turning to the 2012 outlook I would like to update you on our recently implemented fuel derivative program.
The program was intended to mitigate a portion of our economic risk attributable to potentially significant fuel price increases.
As part of this program we will evaluate various derivative products and strategies.
To date we have bought 0 cost collars for approximately 10% of our estimated fuel consumption for the second half of fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2015 with ceilings ranging from $125 to $135 and floors ranging from $71 to $75.
We designed the fuel derivative program to maximize operational flexibility by utilizing derivative markets with significant trading liquidity.
These derivatives act as effective economic hedges.
However hedge accounting was not applied.
Accordingly the impact of realized gains and losses on the fuel derivatives that mature each period as well as changes in unrealized gains and losses resulting from mark-to-market adjustments on our outstanding fuel derivatives are recorded as a nonoperating item in our P&amp;L.
We believe it's more meaningful to evaluate our earnings performance by excluding the impact of the unrealized gains and losses until the gains and losses are realized and we've added a line to our P&amp;L to reflect this exclusion labeled Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings Per Share.
Going forward we will not include in our earnings guidance any year-to-date impact or any future estimates of the unrealized gains and losses on the fuel derivatives.
Accordingly our earnings guidance will be on a non-GAAP basis.
However we will forecast realized gains and losses on fuel derivatives by applying the current Brent oil prices to the derivatives that settle in the forecast period.
Based on this approach and the current prices we are not forecasting any realized gains or losses for 2012 under our current fuel derivative portfolio.
Now turning to our 2012 outlook.
I will skip net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
On the cost side for the full year net cruise costs per available lower berth day are forecasted to be flat versus the prior year which is at the low end of our longer-term guidance of flat to half of inflation.
As fuel and currency are assumptions that impact our results it should be noted that the current spot price for fuel used in our guidance is essentially in line with 2011's average price.
However based on the current FX rates currency is expected to have a negative impact on our earnings next year of $0.17.
On a final note I wanted to share with you our current rules of thumb about the impact of fuel and currency on our results.
To start with a 10% change in the price of fuel represents a $225 million or $0.29 per share impact for the full year.
In addition note that the 10% change obviously moves along with the price of fuel.
With respect to FX movement the 10% change in all relevant currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar would impact our P&amp;L by approximately $0.25 a share for the full year.
At this point I will turn the call over to Howard.
Thank you David.
Let me frame for you if you will the 2012 outlook for our business.
We have 3 new ships scheduled for delivery in 2012: the Costa Fascinosa which gets delivered in late April; the AIDAmar in May; and the Carnival Breeze in late May.
So we have 3 spring deliveries.
This will drive a fleet-wide capacity increase of 4.8% 3.6% for the North America fleet and 6.6% for the EAA fleet.
Earnings guidance for 2012 has been established with a range of $2.55 to $2.85 which gives us a midpoint of $2.70 a share.
Using the midpoint we estimate that operating cash flow for 2012 will approach $4 billion.
With CapEx estimated at $2.6 billion free cash flow for the year should be approximately $1.4 billion.
With 2 ships currently scheduled for delivery in each of 2013 '14 and '15 we are expecting that free cash flow will continue to increase in each of these subsequent years.
Turning back to our 2012 earnings guidance we have established this wider range of guidance this year given the uncertain global economic outlook and the even greater uncertainty in European markets because of the sovereign debt crisis.
The $0.30 per share range for 2012 compares to the $0.20 share range we have used in recent years.
Needless to say our crystal ball for 2012 is somewhat hazier than in past years and thus a little more caution to our guidance.
However notwithstanding the global economic uncertainty we are confident we can grow our earnings in 2012.
The amount of earnings growth will depend on the revenue yield improvement we can achieve during the year.
And turning now to our booking trends our more recent booking trends.
There has been an ebb and flow to booking patterns over the last 13 weeks.
Lower consumer confidence around the world and worries about the European sovereign debt crisis and its effect on European consumer pocketbooks have caused some delay in consumer vacation decisions and resulted in a closer end booking window.
Although fleet-wide booking volumes during the last 13-week period have been running nicely higher year-over-year we have achieved this volume by reducing prices for our cruises.
But the good news is that consumers have responded to these lower prices and the booking volumes have increased.
North America brand booking volumes for the 13 weeks have been running higher than a year ago at lower prices.
EAA brand bookings are slightly higher at lower prices.
More recent bookings over the last 6 weeks have seen an even stronger pickup in booking volumes for both North America and Europe brands which is an encouraging sign.
The booking patterns during the upcoming wave season which starts in early January will give us a better indicator as to what the revenue yield picture will look like for the remainder of the year.
In terms of our current booking status at the present time based on bookings taken to date constant dollar ticket prices for both North America and EAA brands are slightly higher than a year ago on slightly lower year occupancies.
This is a combination of stronger booking patterns during the last spring and summer and the weaker prices for bookings experienced during the 13 -- this last 13-week period.
We are currently guiding to yield improvement of a range of 1% to 2% for the year or a midpoint of 1.5%.
To some degree this yield improvement results from the significant hit we took on pricing and occupancy for our European and Mediterranean itineraries in 2011 which arose from the political upheavals in the Middle East and North Africa.
We expect to improve our year-over-year occupancy for these cruises which will be a major contributor to the forecasted revenue yield improvement in 2012.
Given the bookings already taken for 2012 and our forecasted pricing for the remainder of the year which has factored in the economic headwinds in our various markets we are comfortable with the 1% to 2% revenue yield range improvement for the year.
In terms of our earnings guidance for 2012 broadly speaking our forecasted earnings improvement for 2012 comes from a higher yield of approximately 1.5% a fleet-wide capacity increase of 4.8% and it's offset by the negative effect of the changes in currency which David mentioned before on a year-over-year basis.
Our fuel pricing forecast is relatively unchanged year-over-year although it does have a significant impact on the first quarter of 2012 which I will comment on later.
As we indicated in the press release earnings for the first quarter of 2012 will be lower than a year ago principally because of the higher fuel costs and the higher number of dry-dock days.
However we expect to get back to positive earnings growth from the second quarter onward as yield comparisons become more favorable.
For the present time we plan to maintain our quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share which represents approximately 37% of our earnings and is in line with our stated guidance of paying a dividend from 30% to 40% of earnings.
Now turning to the first quarter.
Fleet-wide capacity for the first quarter is expected to be 4.9% higher than last year 4.5% for North America brands and 5.6% for EAA brands.
At the present time first quarter occupancies on a fleet-wide basis was slightly higher year-over-year with constant dollar pricing also higher.
There's very little inventory left to sell at this point for the first quarter.
North America brands in the first quarter are 65% in the Caribbean approximately the same as last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
Caribbean pricing is higher than a year ago at slightly higher occupancies as compared to last year.
Pricing for all other itineraries is also slightly higher than a year ago at slightly lower occupancies.
For EAA brands they are 22% in the Caribbean in the first quarter versus 20% last year 19% in Europe and down from 22% last year and 18% in South America versus 16% last year so a bit of a shift from Europe to South America with the balance in all other itineraries.
EAA constant dollar pricing in the Caribbean is higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
EAA pricing in Europe is lower year-over-year but with higher occupancies and EAA South America pricing is nicely higher than a year ago on higher occupancies.
With respect to the first quarter outlook with a good percentage of our bookings for the first quarter completed we are forecasting that constant dollar revenue yields for the quarter will increase in 1.5% to 2.5% range compared to last year.
Net cruise costs excluding fuel are expected to increase in the 3.5% to 4.5% range in constant dollars largely due to the higher year-over-year dry-docking days scheduled in the first quarter of 2012.
Fuel costs are significantly higher in the first quarter this year versus last year and are expected to increase by approximately $93 million or $0.12 a share.
Incremental costs for the increased number of dry-dock days versus the first quarter of 2011 is approximately $0.06 a share.
This is a timing difference in these dry-dock days that will reverse during the remainder of the year as the dry-dock days for the full year 2012 is approximately the same as 2011.
Taking all these factors into consideration including the higher fuel prices the company is guiding first quarter non-GAAP diluted earnings to be in the range of $0.06 to $0.10 per share.
For an apples-to-apples comparison if we add back the $0.18 per share for the fuel price increases in dry-dock day the earning per share would have been $0.24 to $0.28 versus the $0.19 per share in 2011.
Turning to the second quarter now fleet-wide capacity for the second quarter is up 4.7% 2.9% for North America brands and 7.6% for EAA brands.
At the present time on a fleet-wide basis constant dollar pricing is slightly higher than a year ago with occupancies lower than last year.
For North American brands they are 56% in the Caribbean approximately the same as last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
Caribbean pricing is nicely higher than a year ago on approximately the same occupancy levels as last year.
Pricing for all other itineraries taken together is higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
For EAA brands they are 53% in Europe down from 55% last year with the balance in various other markets.
EAA brand constant dollar European cruise pricing is slightly higher than a year ago on slightly lower occupancies.
EAA brand pricing on all other itineraries taken together is slightly lower than last year also at lower occupancies.
On an overall basis our estimate is that constant dollar revenue yields will be flattish for the second quarter by the time it closes.
Turning now to the third quarter of 2012.
Capacity in that third quarter is expected to increase 4.7% 3.3% in North America and 7% in EAA.
Third quarter booking patterns are still in early development so I caution you not to read too much into this data.
On a fleet-wide basis third quarter constant dollar pricing is higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
For North America brands capacity in the third quarter is 39% in the Caribbean versus 36% last year; 24% in Alaska slightly higher than a year ago; and 25% in Europe which is about the same as last year.
Pricing for Caribbean Alaska and Europe itineraries are all higher than a year ago.
Occupancies for the Caribbean and Alaska cruises are running at about the same level as last year with occupancies for Europe cruises lower than last year.
EAA brand capacity is 88% in European itineraries in line with last year.
EAA brand constant dollar pricing for European and all other itineraries is nicely higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
While the pricing picture for the third quarter is quite good right now there is a considerable amount of third quarter inventory remaining to be sold.
Much of the third quarter revenue picture will depend on the strength of the 2012 wave season.
As I mentioned earlier we expect that revenue yields for the last 3 quarters of 2012 will benefit from the easier comparisons to the 2011 year.
We took a hit as a result of the itinerary disruptions from MENA.
All things being equal that should have produced higher yield improvement in 2012.
However 2012 is proving more challenging than originally thought because of the European sovereign debt crisis and lower consumer confidence in Europe.
So that's our thoughts about how 2012 is currently shaping up.
And with that Tommy I'll turn it back to you for -- we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Howard I was wondering if you could just -- you mentioned that you are seeing lower pricing now.
And I was just wondering if you could give us some color on that.
For example how much discounting or how much lower are you seeing in terms of pricing of where you were hoping to be? And then also on the first quarter if you look at it kind of month-by-month December January February I was wondering if you're seeing any particular patterns there.
For example is pricing or demand strengthening or weakening within the quarter? I mean when you look at the pricing picture across the 10 brands it's really an amalgamation of what's happening in each of their markets and demand profiles can differ greatly.
In fact in some of the markets we're doing just fine on pricing.
In other markets we're feeling more -- we're seeing less demand particularly I think more so in Europe than in North America broadly speaking.
That's been more of a challenge for us.
We have taken a number of pricing actions in those markets and as I mentioned where we're seeing the softer pricing.
And we're also looking at options for how to move inventory and moving from one market to another and that sort of thing in Europe which we think will be -- which will have some benefit.
But clearly if you look at southern European markets it's more of a challenge less so as we see in the U.K.
and Germany.
And broadly speaking U.S.
more or less seems to be holding up well except I think we're seeing more of a challenge on our European programs this coming summer for our North American brands.
And that could be a combination of factors including higher air costs and just some -- all the noise that Americans are hearing about what's going on in Europe.
Although you wouldn't think it would affect their vacation decisions I think the psychology of the consumer today is that there is a greater concern.
And the patterns come closer in but we're holding it.
We're holding as much pricing as we can.
We think that if we have a decent wave season we should be just fine.
I was going to say that keep in mind that at this time last year we were looking at a very different economic environment overall.
And so when we say pricing's down it's down versus a very strong period at the end of last year on a year-over-year basis.
And things didn't start deteriorating.
We're not going to annualize until about mid-February when the Arab Spring started and all this other European stuff started.
So right now year-over-year we're in comparisons to a very very strong period last year.
And we were -- we and our competitors last fall were very very optimistic about '11.
On first quarter pricing Felicia I mean we've sold a good part of the first quarter in the fall and it seems to have shaped up okay.
I mean but we had a lot of that inventory sold so the last 13 weeks have had less impact on the first quarter more impact on the second and third quarter.
And we're in pretty good shape for the first quarter at this point.
I'm not quite sure exactly what you were driving at.
She was asking about the months.
And to be honest Felicia with 5 000 voyages 10 brands and everything else we look at it quarter-by-quarter and we leave the brands to get into the detail month-by-month.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just Howard you just touched upon something with Europe and I think you've kind of answered my next question.
But if you look at your major regions the U.K.
Italy Germany you said Italy was probably the weakest.
But if you could just give us kind of what you're seeing in terms of the behavior from each of those markets that would be helpful.
Yes I mean basically that's it.
I mean I think we're pleasantly surprised by what we're seeing in the U.K.
and Germany.
Of course the economy is still holding up well but given all the austerity measures that have been taken by the U.K.
government our business seems to be holding up quite nicely.
But when I talk about southern Europe which is mostly I'm thinking about Spain and Italy but to some degree France I think that psychology is affecting the consumer and it's a much more -- especially in Italy Italians are quite conservative and they're concerned about -- there's no clear path for them right now.
And I think once the austerity measures hopefully are passed by the Italian government people will understand what they have and what they are going to have to pay and in terms of increased taxes and increased VAT.
And I think knowing the reality I think gets the issue behind them and we found that to be true in the U.K.
So I think if once those issues are dealt with in these countries I think the consumer confidence will start to come back some.
Can I just add that the countries we're talking about are basically in their off-season period.
And first quarter the wintertime tends to be a slow time for them anyway.
And if the booking pattern is in it's too early to really see the third quarter kick in.
So some of this may be a function of booking pattern.
And we'll proceed to our next question the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First of all I'm curious as to why when you devised your 2012 estimates you used the full year for the trailing 12 months for fuel but the current FX number.
And then secondly on a related topic if you could give us your thoughts on the spread between Brent and bunker.
It's stubbornly wide.
And then recently although the Europe -- although the euro is down around 10% bunker is down only a fraction of that.
So why do you think bunker pricing is resisting the declines that you typically occur when the euro and Brent are lower? Well to just start with we didn't use the historical rates for our 2012 guidance when it comes to fuel.
We used the current spot price.
It just so happens that the current spot price for 2012 happens to be very much in line with 2011.
That's more of a coincidence.
It's not that we used the 2011.
As far as Brent and bunker they're really -- there was a big dislocation in the market that seemed to occur about a year ago where Brent and bunker seemed to move in different directions.
I think they got as wide as about $25 or $30 a barrel difference.
There's a lot of issues with WTI and Brent and the correlation between the 2.
But if you look at over time I think what you'll find is that Brent and bunker or our fuel prices had a much better correlation.
The correlation used to be in the 70s in the mid-70s.
It did move up into the 90s.
It's recently come back to the high 80s and it has stayed in the high 80s low 90s for a period of time now so there's been a pretty good correlation.
One of the reasons why we chose to use Brent as part of our a fuel derivative program the long-term movement between the 70s and the high 80s has a lot to do with refining capacity and all types of things that we've talked about historically in the conference call so not expecting that the crack spreads or the -- will come down when you compare our fuel price to Brent.
As far as your last question the correlation between the euro and bunker I mean we've said historically that there is a -- that these move in opposite directions.
That has worked most of the time but they're not a complete offset to each other.
There's many other economic factors affecting these 2 items.
I'm sure that all of the dislocation and all of the debt crisis and everything else going on in Europe today is causing the euro to move and that's much more so than the overall price of bunker.
So while they have been a nice natural hedge it doesn't always work perfectly for us and they don't move in opposite directions all the time.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up question.
Have you seen any significant differences in refining capacity for bunker in the last 12 months versus say the past 3 years? Well bunker is a residual and I think one of the reasons just -- not significant differences but as they get better and better in their refining capacity there's less and less residual and that's one of the reasons why the crack spread has moved up.
It's what I was referring to before.
And we'll proceed to our next question from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I have 2 questions.
One is on the expense side.
And I know your net cruise costs x fuel in Q1 is just the timing issue and the full year looks fine.
But Q4 I think your net cruise costs x fuel maybe came in just slightly worse than your guidance originally.
So if you could just give a little color on that.
And then I also have a question about European bookings but I'll just ask this extra [ph].
Sure.
Yes our net cruise costs in the fourth quarter came in a little bit above guidance.
It was a few cents above.
The timing as I've always said by quarter is very very difficult.
I mean if you went back to the third quarter we were $0.05 below guidance in terms of cruise costs.
It just there's a lot of little items relating to a variety of things.
It's very hard to predict on a $9 billion cost base every single dollar we're going to spend and the timing within a month or a quarter.
So we missed it by a few cents but there were a couple other positives that offset that and we did wind up right on the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And '12 obviously looks like it's no issue.
Then my other question on European bookings.
Obviously there's a lot of concern about the European consumer and -- but since the cost of brand in particular is not really comping against a great year or even a normal year this past year with all the disruption from the Middle East and North Africa and ports in Japan.
I guess I wonder if it would sort of help investors to think about why yields can still be up if you could quantify.
I know you don't normally give yield change by brand but just kind of a ballpark sense about maybe how much cost yields were down in 2011 just sort of make it clear that it's comping against a challenging year that you have kind of easier comps than one would think just from looking at the economy.
Robin not to get involved with yield information with individual brands.
Having said that Costa did feel the biggest hit last year from MENA given the disruption enormous disruption to their business.
So that has a -- kind of go around and come full circle on it.
I think that they're certainly set -- they certainly can anticipate what's going to happen a lot better this year than last year.
And I think what they're looking for is they're going to drive a lot more occupancy this year than last year so they will benefit from occupancy improvement which will give them yield improvement.
But I think it's still early to say exactly.
Clearly we have our estimates and that's where we base our guidance on.
And we feel comfortable that Costa's going to have a good year and especially because they can yield manage through this 2012 barring another breakout of some kind of geopolitical event in their part of the world.
But we're pretty comfortable with where they are right now and feel that they're going to have a good year and they feel they're going to have a good year.
They're going in feeling confident right now.
Just to reinforce one thing Howard said is that when you're moving around so many itineraries so late it just made it very difficult to fill to their normal full occupancy.
It was just too late.
And although they did recover pretty well considering the circumstances the reality is that a lot of the improvement for them next year as Howard said and I just want to reiterate is occupancy driven not price driven.
Keep in mind that when you look at last year we're lapping the MENA impact.
We had said the MENA was a negative impact for the whole company last year of 1.7%.
It was probably for -- or EAA brands was probably over double that.
And so while they were covering that yield there is an economic factor which is partially off making it more difficult as Howard and Micky indicated.
So it's the MENA impact that is -- and lapping that that's allowing us to show the year-over-year yield increase despite everything else.
And we'll proceed to our next question from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk about how you're thinking about cash flow? It seems to me that you've now started to lock in your building program.
You've started to lock in your fuel program and that gives you a lot more opportunity to be more aggressive on buyback or dividend and you do mention in your commentary that you are generating a lot of cash flow.
Can Micky or one of you talk about how the Board is starting to think about the buyback or the dividend? And what are some of the key measures you're looking at? And then I know you gave this about the dry docks I think David how much that was impacting you.
But can you just repeat again what those dry docks are and if they're one-time and how we should be thinking about that impact to the cost saves? And essentially what I'm asking is if you didn't have those dry docks would you be showing an improvement on a cost saving basis in 2012? Why don't you deal with the dry dock first? Yes I'll deal with the dry docks.
Overall Steve ships go into dry docks depending on the ships once every 3 years twice every 5 years.
So there's a regular schedule for dry docks and we're always going to have dry docks.
On a year-over-year basis '11 to '12 the total number of dry-dock days were pretty much in line.
They went up slightly with capacity overall.
So on a year-over-year basis it's really no issue.
It's just the timing.
Remember the brands individually choose to do dry docks in what appears to be the most convenient time for them usually the lowest profit season.
And this year we just happened to have more dry docks scheduled for the first quarter and less dry docks scheduled for the second and fourth quarter so it's just the timing within the year and not an issue on an overall basis for the year.
And our cruise costs are flat.
The dry docks aren't affecting cruise costs for the full year only the seasonalization of cruise costs between the quarter.
As far as the cash flow is concerned I think the story really hasn't changed from what we've been saying for the last couple of years.
We've been talking about the fact that we do expect to have free cash flow.
It's our goal to return the free cash flow to shareholders.
We've indicated I think Howard mentioned in his comments the 30% to 40% payout ratio for regular quarterly dividend.
In addition to that we've constantly been saying we will look at opportunistic share repurchases.
And if need be we can look at an additional annual dividend on top of that.
We managed through the quarterly dividend and the opportunistic share repurchases to return all our free cash flow in 2011.
And in 2012 we'll take a look at the opportunities as they arise.
And we'll proceed to our next question from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the Northern European consumer? You mentioned Spain there that made [ph] buying patterns for cruises were soft.
But how about the rest of Europe in terms of sourcing? Well I did say that Germany was doing well that U.K.
is holding up also quite well even given the new austerity measures.
And I mean Scandinavia -- I mean our business in northern Europe tends to be going reasonably well right now.
Scandinavia we don't source a huge amount of passengers from Scandinavia so I really don't know the answer to that.
But we know in the Netherlands where we do have significant sourcing that that's going well.
That country's economy is okay.
And it really seems to be going in the direction where the economies are going in those countries and the consumer confidence in those countries.
And that's what -- and we're seeing it in demand patterns as well.
Research Division</strong> Helpful.
And with respect here the 1% to 2% net yield guidance for 2012 what type of macro or geopolitical outlook are you assuming? Are you assuming kind of the trend stays the same or maybe things get a little worse? What are you kind of -- what's going into your model? I'm assuming -- look when we provide these yield outlooks it's an amalgamation or an aggregation of 10 different markets and different brands and each one is a little bit different.
But I think it's fair to say that we're assuming it's pretty much as is right now.
And as our brand managers revenue managers see their business in many cases assumes that pricing will continue to be a challenge in certain of these markets but less so in the stronger markets.
So it's really a combination of all those things including the U.S.
market which seems to be relatively good right now.
I mean all 3 of our U.S.
brands seem to be performing well with the possible exception as I mentioned earlier about summer Europe which is okay from a pricing standpoint at this point but has fallen behind from an occupancy.
But we're sustaining it right now and that could be a function of how the U.S.
consumer sees Europe right now with all the noise over there and so on.
And we think that's going to -- but we think Europe is going to be fine actually.
We don't have that much increase in capacity so we should be doing okay in Europe for this summer.
And we'll proceed to our next question the line of Steve Wieczynski from Stifel Nicolaus.
[Technical Difficulty] Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Howard you talked about earlier in your remarks the booking window starting to contract.
I just want to know if you could kind of compare where we are today relative to where we were back in 2008 2009 and just kind of what your thought process is in terms of as we move into 2012 if that can get -- if that's going to -- if you guys think that's going to contract any more? Well I mean let me -- I really can't compare it to 2008.
I'll let somebody else speak to that issue.
But before that let me comment on the booking window for 2012.
We do believe that while the booking window has come in it's not a huge amount but it has come in which always makes it more of a challenge when you're sitting in a revenue management seat in terms of how to price your cruises and how firm you want to be on your pricing knowing the business does come in late.
But at the end of the day we fill up.
We'll fill up with the same kind of occupancy levels as last year.
Actually this year we're going to probably be up at least a point or more from an occupancy standpoint.
What we need to manage through that process given the closer end booking window and each of the revenue management teams in different brands do it slightly different.
They don't use the same revenue management approach.
And so it will depend on how they see the world.
But as long as bookings are sustainable at the levels that we're talking about today we should be just fine.
Because as I said bookings for the last 13 weeks actually there's been some ebb and flows but they've been okay.
I mean we've been able to move pricing slightly downward and the bookings have picked up.
And in the last 6 weeks it's even been stronger.
Don't ask me why by the way.
You never really know but bookings have been stronger.
And if that sustains itself the booking window will extend out.
That's what we look to try to do and then we can revenue management pricing a little bit better.
In comparison to our booking window today and compared to last year and the year before over the last 2 years we have indicated a number of times on just about every conference call that we were slightly behind in terms of bookings because the booking window has moved in a little bit.
But we are being patient because we do believe that people will book.
We consistently as Howard said do fill up and get the pricing.
We could always move the booking window further out but there's a cost to that in pricing so we'd rather be patient.
And it seems to be working well for us over the last couple of years.
In terms of 2008 2008 if you go back that was the year that was really an aberration.
If you -- we had looked back from '03 through 2011 and the one year that really stuck out was 2008.
I think on the March '08 conference call we had said that the booking window was historically as far out as we had ever seen it and our customer deposits were as high as they had ever been at that point in time.
So '08's an aberration but in the last couple of years it has moved in a little bit.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then for Howard I guess this is kind of a hearsay type question not sure if you're even going to be able to answer it.
But if you guys didn't lower pricing over the last 12 to 6 weeks or 2 months do you still think volumes would be ahead of where they were versus last year? Well I think the reason that we lowered the pricing was to pick up the volumes.
Had we not lowered the prices would we have had the higher volumes? Steve I'm not in a position to answer you.
And really it is a market-by-market decision and each of the brands make it and I think they felt they had to do it.
So my guess is if they were to answer the question they would say "No we don't think we would have had these volumes." Now whether they're right or not I don't know.
But I certainly don't know the answer to that question.
I assume that they reduced prices in order to pick up the volumes.
And if they're able to do that for a sustainable period of time they feel they can start to move the pricing back up a little bit which is the purpose of moving the pricing down to try to get back to where you want to be from a demand standpoint.
And then you gradually tweak the pricing up and that's what a lot of the brands will actually do.
And we'll proceed to our next question the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back to the impact that you're going to have on MENA this year.
David or Howard I think you alluded to in a prior question that basically absent the 1.7% impact on yields from MENA you would anticipate the net yield guidance being down on a constant dollar basis.
Any additional color you can give there order of magnitude that you're looking for in the overall rebound? I guess another way to phrase the question is that 1.7% if your overall pricing say was down $100 do you expect to recover a certain percentage of that this year from the MENA impact? Yes it's so hard to say Tim because there are so many factors that are out there -- MENA itinerary changes economic situations -- that to get more definitive and to quantify it to that level would be very difficult.
It would just be guesswork.
What I was just trying to say in response to the question our yield projection being up and giving people some comfort that the up yield was a reasonable estimate was trying to compare it to the MENA impact last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So again I mean it's fair to say that yields x the MENA recovery would be down as far as your projections for '12? Yes.
Well the midpoint of our guidance if you take the midpoint of 1.5% and you subtract 1.7% I guess that's down 0.2%.
As David said as you got into the second half of '11 part of the MENA impact had to be the economic issues in Europe as well and those 2 things clouded each other and it's very hard to kind of pinpoint to the 1/10 of 1% what we're dealing with.
I mean if we just -- all we can say is that right now we're comparing to a period where we didn't have economic turmoil we didn't have -- and we're comparing that booking pattern to our booking pattern now.
And until we annualize it's difficult to kind of come up with these numbers but I think we've taken our best shot at it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay very fair Micky.
And maybe the second question Micky maybe more for you or whoever wants to take it.
Any commentary that you can talk about on your market shares gains relative to the tour operators and especially given the commentary coming out of struggles out of certain tour operators in particular Thomas Cook? And then just the broad commentary that's come out of both Thomas Cook and TUI about their perspective business.
How are your market shares relative to the major tour operators or other alternatives? Obviously our market share -- the package holiday business in Europe in general is shrinking while the cruise business is growing.
So obviously we're effectively taking share but our share is so small in numbers compared to the overall package holiday business in Europe it's unrecognizable.
I would remind you that while these guys are tour operators they're also very very powerful retail travel agents.
And Thomas Cook is a very very good distributor for us and we're working very closely with Thomas Cook to make sure that our distribution with them continues to be effective.
And I must say that while their business is down they're recovering and we're very hopeful that they'll get out of this fine.
And we'll proceed to our next question from the line of Ian Rennardson from Jefferies International.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two or 3 questions here.
Number one the capacity numbers you gave Howard does that include -- I think I read today you've sold the Pacific Sun from the middle of next year.
Are those capacity increases before or after that? The second question is regarding the dividend.
Now last year or this year 2011 you made the decision on the quarterly dividend in February I think at a board meeting.
Is that the case for the next dividend decision or was that already made into 2012? I thought you said you have 2 questions Ian or 3 questions? Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was 2 questions sorry.
Can't count.
The capacity is after taking out the Pacific Sun midway through the year in Australia.
And as to the dividend I think what I said is that right now the plan is to pay the $0.25 quarterly dividend.
That doesn't mean that we couldn't take a decision later on in the year.
It could be February it could be maybe later on the year depending on how the year unfolds that we would take another look at the standard dividend or look at alternative share buybacks or a special dividend at the end of the year.
We're just looking at different alternatives so we're keeping our options open and it's ultimately a Board decision.
Generally I think last year we did it after the January board -- quarterly board meeting.
And we review it with the Board every quarter and it is totally a Board decision.
I would want to make one comment.
When we made our last new building announcement we tried to make it clear that that new building announcement shouldn't be considered totally incremental capacity because we were working to move out capacity.
And since we made that announcement we've sold 2 ships the Costa Marina and the Pacific Sun.
And that continues to be our strategy.
While we're building 2 or 3 ships a year we do intend to move some ships out over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up on the disposal of the Pacific Sun we know what your accounting treatment of these is regarding depreciation residual values.
Well how did the value of what you got for the ship equate to your accounting treatment? We took a very small charge in the...
Net it was like $0.01 a share a very small...
We took that in the third quarter because we already had a handshake for that sale then.
It was only finalized the day we announced it.
And we'll proceed to our next question from the line of Jamie Rollo from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just to ask a question.
Just on your yield guidance which is pretty tight under the sort of high uncertain circumstances you say.
You also said a lot depends on the wave season.
I'm wondering what sort of wave you're factoring in.
Are you assuming no further price weakness from here like we've seen in the last 12 weeks? Or are you factoring in some further weakness into the lower end of your yield guidance? I mean Jamie it's hard to answer that question because as I say it's a composite number.
So in certain markets where we're sustaining pricing and our volumes are good we continue to probably believe that we'll be able to do that.
In other markets where we're experiencing some lower pricing and we're probably using -- I think the view is that that's going to be factored into how the yield will be for that particular market.
And we add all of them all up at the end of the day and we come up with the overall guidance which is the 1% to 2%.
And I think as I indicated to you earlier in my comments that I'm comfortable with that guidance right now.
That doesn't mean that if there's an extraordinary event that occurs the dissolution of the European currency something else could affect it.
But right now factoring in all of the events we see we think that's a pretty good range to be in right now and we're pretty comfortable with it.
I would just say anecdotally not referencing our guidance but for us to be having the kind of volumes we're having at what is historically the slowest time of the year would be a nice indicator that we should expect a good wave.
And I personally would expect that we'd have a pretty good wave.
There's also probably a dividing line as Micky indicated in February with the whole MENA impact where perhaps before that line we may be running behind last year in terms of prices.
But once you get post that line and the comparisons get much easier we'll be running well ahead in terms of pricing overall.
Not just pricing but also just in occupancy as well.
In occupancy as well.
Yes.
And occupancy is driving a lot of that Jamie as we indicated.
Probably certainly more than 50% of the yield improvement we're talking about at the midpoint will be occupancy driven.
At the time [indiscernible] started some of our brands were experiencing negative bookings.
I mean they were getting more cancellations than they were bookings for a period of time.
Research Division</strong> If I can just sort of follow on from that then.
You mentioned lower pricing over the last 12 weeks.
Could you just sort of quantify what sort of yield reductions you've seen just in the last 12 weeks just so we can get a feeling for the trajectory? I mean obviously you said your 2012 yield guidance is a product of better pricing over the summer but weaker pricing in the last 12 weeks.
But what's the delta been please? It's not that readily available at our fingertips.
Understand Jamie we're talking weaker versus last year versus what it was weaker versus last year 3 months ago.
So it's all relative to last year where we didn't have an economic situation.
We didn't have a MENA situation yet.
So again the comparisons remember was we were in a very optimistic booking trend this time last year.
And you can remember some of the statements that were being made by us and competitors in the fall of last year which were very optimistic.
And that's what we're comparing to.
I would say this just to kind of try to help you in some way Jamie is that where we've seen -- the overall pricing weakness that we've seen in bookings is not significant.
However it is weaker and it's a little bit more weaker in the Europe -- for the European brands than it is for the American brands which is fully understandable from our standpoint.
We understand what's going on especially southern European markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one really quick one on the fuel protection strategy.
What's sort of the long-term targets? I presume it's not going to be 10% for the options.
Is there a soft figure you have in mind? No we haven't decided on a specific target.
We will over time continue to layer in more protection but we'll be opportunistic and we'll make those decisions as we go along.
And we'll proceed to our next question from the line of Kevin Milota with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just one surrounding the consumer.
I was wondering if you've seen any differentiation between some of your higher-end brands and more of your contemporary segmented brands.
And speaking to are your higher price pointed rooms getting taken out and you still have a tremendous amount of lower price capacity that would be great.
That last part is tough to note because it will vary -- it could vary significantly by brand.
I'll say this Kevin though that there's not a huge difference between our premium and contemporary brands in terms of their patterns right now nor for that matter.
As we look at the business in certain parts -- certain of our markets I think part of the reasons we're holding price and bookings have been strong in certain markets is because some of the premium products here in the U.S.
and to some degree in Europe and our market segment which is towards the retired people or wealthier people is holding up fine.
We have seen that well.
So that has held up nicely for us.
And I think that's -- so even in the U.K.
where there's a huge -- a number of austerity programs being implemented it seems to affect less the consumer who is retired and they feel more comfortable with their holdings and their retirement plans and so on.
So we're getting good business out of the U.K.
And in terms of our U.S.
premium brands they're doing quite nicely yes.
With the one exception I would say is that what I mentioned before again is the summer Europe is still falling behind but we have taken pricing down.
And we'll proceed to our next question the line of Assia Georgieva from Infinity Research.
I had one question Howard.
You mentioned that for Q2 pricing is flat and again as Micky and David pointed out we still need to get to that mid-February late February time point to start annualizing.
Hypothetical scenario where today's pricing stayed flat through the end of Q2 the actual dollar amount do you think you would be able to show yield improvement? Well look this is what I said.
I think it's 2 things.
One is that Q2 pricing is now slightly ahead year-over-year.
And I think what I also went on to say is that we expect that by the end of the close of the second quarter it should be flattish.
And when I say flattish it could be slightly up it may be slightly down but within a smaller range.
And secondly are you more cautious because of cost of new itineraries with which I imagine they don't have as much historical experience and therefore there's more risk in terms of yield managing? Now the response to the Costa itineraries from the market has been actually quite good so we don't see any issues right now with Costa's itinerary.
They feel very good -- they've got some new itineraries that they've put in there this year and they're booking well so they're very pleased with that.
I think the major change in Costa's deployment is to offer [indiscernible] that are shorter duration which helps to bring the price point down to a local market and it's attractive in this kind of economic environment.
Yes.
But it's also later booking.
The shorter the cruise the later the booking.
Sure.
But could that also be more helpful to onboards as shorter voyages tend to have better onboard? Absolutely.
Yes absolutely.
And we'll proceed to our next question the line of David Leibowitz from Horizon Kinetics.
Inc.</strong> Briefly what is the cost of putting on the fuel derivative program? We did 0 cost collars there's no cost.
A couple of accounts.
Yes.
Inc.</strong> And going to the -- from the ridiculous to the sublime if the euro zone breaks apart and the euro ceases to be a currency what happens to your euro-denominated debt? Does that go through the German mark or wherever you booked it? I assume that if that happened that there would be some sort of conversion pricing that would take effect and it would be converted at that conversion pricing.
But you're asking a real hypothetical question.
David I've read about 5 different articles on that possibility and they had 5 different answers.
So I don't think anybody knows nor do the Europeans want to think about it because it's going to be -- to have such a staggering impact on their economies if this does happen.
So my guess is it's very unlikely to happen except that every once in a while you pick up the Wall Street Journal or the Financial Times and somebody -- Mario Draghi makes some comment that it's kind of scary.
But apart from that I think it's unlikely to happen.
I think the intent is ultimately to save the euro really.
And Mr.
Frank we do have one more question in the queue.
And our last question for today is from the line of Janet Brashear from Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious about a comment you made earlier about your flexibility to position ships within Europe.
How flexible are you sort of in the year for the year if you find some markets are working better than others given the positioning of each brand towards specific populations? I'm not sure what you're referring to but obviously we showed it last year by moving 300 itineraries with 30-days notice so we can do it.
There is clearly a negative repercussion in cost to it because you wind up losing a lot of the people you have booked and you have to rebook them and that tends to force you to lower prices.
So that's a last resort when the situation is really dire so it's not something we want -- we would want to do at the last minute.
It's something that we clearly can do year-over-year at adjusting to booking patterns and customer taste and that's what Costa did and a number of our brands did.
We tweaked the itineraries increased capacity a little bit in Alaska increased capacity a little bit in northern Europe held capacity in the Mediterranean.
So we tweak this from year-to-year but close in only in a dramatic situation would we move like that.
And Mr.
Frank we have no further questions on the phone line.
I'll now turn the call back to you for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all.
We all here wish you a happy holidays and a happy and healthy new year and hope to see you in the new year.
All the best to everybody.
Bye-bye.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a good day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Friday March 9 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
This is Howard Frank.
With me this morning is Micky Arison our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; David Bernstein our Senior Vice President of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer; and Beth Roberts our Senior -- our Vice President and -- what are you -- what do you do again? Investor Relations Officer.
Before David's comments which we typically start the call with Micky would like to make a few comments first.
Micky? Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us today.
As you can imagine this has been a most difficult and challenging time for our corporation.
We've all been deeply saddened by the Costa Concordia accident and our thoughts and prayers are with the passengers crew and family of those who were lost in this tragic accident.
We are grateful to the Italian authorities and rescue workers who acted heroically following the accident and who continue to assist in the recovery process.
We would also like to express our deepest appreciation to the local population of the island of Giglio and thank them for their generosity to those in need.
As to the Costa Concordia crew I'd like to thank and recognize them for their tireless efforts to evacuate more than 4 000 passengers and crew from the ship that night.
Not enough can be said about the work that the crew did to help our guests in the most challenging of conditions.
Before we walk through the financial impact to Costa Cruises and Carnival Corporation I'd like to offer a couple of observations based on my experience.
First that the cruise industry remains incredibly safe and maintains one of the best safety records of any form of recreational travel in the world.
The safety and security of our guests are job one and we learn from everything we can from this incident and apply all lessons learned.
Thank you.
And David will take you through the numbers.
David? Thank you Micky.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this call will be forward-looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currencies unless otherwise noted as this is a more useful measure of business trends.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the first quarter was $0.02.
The first quarter came in $0.06 below the midpoint of our December guidance.
The $0.06 shortfall from our December guidance was driven by $0.04 from the Costa Concordia incident expenses not covered by insurance and $0.04 from the impairment charge related to the Costa Allegra.
All the other items netted out to a favorable $0.02 per share as higher-than-expected revenue yields and cost savings including lower advertising expenses more than offset $0.06 of higher fuel prices.
Now let's look at our first quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased almost 4%.
Our North American brands grew over 4% while our Europe Australia and Asia brands or as we call them our EAA brands grew almost 3%.
Our total net revenue yields increased 2.9% in the first quarter with net ticket revenue yields up 2.6% and net on board and other revenue yields up 3.7%.
With respect to our net ticket yields the North American brands were up almost 5% as yields rebounded in the Caribbean benefiting from the continuing recovery in the U.S.
economy after absorbing a significant capacity increase last year.
During the first quarter the Caribbean represented 2/3 of the North American brands' capacity.
Our EAA brands' net ticket yields were in line with the prior year with their ships cruising in numerous regions throughout the world during the first quarter.
For net on board and other yields the 3.7% increase was also driven by our North American brands.
While consistent with our expectations our EAA brands were down principally due to the challenging economic environment in Europe.
On the cost side net cruise costs excluding fuel per available lower berth day were up over 6% versus the prior year.
More than 1/2 the increase was driven by the Costa Concordia incident expenses not covered by insurance and the impairment charge related to the Costa Allegra.
The remaining increase was due to the higher number of dry-dock days and related costs in the first quarter which we discussed on the December call.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption per ALBD declined 2.5% this quarter continuing our multiple-year savings trend.
Fuel prices in the quarter were up 30% which cost us an additional $0.18 per share.
In summary the first quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.17 lower than 2011 earnings of $0.19 per share as increased yields were more than offset by higher dry-dock costs higher fuel prices the Costa Concordia incident expenses and the Costa Allegra impairment charge.
Excluded from our non-GAAP EPS but included in our GAAP loss per share were impairment charges of $173 million or $0.22 per share relating to all of Ibero's goodwill and 60% of their trademarks.
We believe it's more meaningful to exclude these non-cash charges from our non-GAAP EPS given their non-recurring nature and the fact that we believe they are not an indication of our future earnings performance.
As we disclosed since 2010 we have been closely monitoring Ibero's intangibles given the small amount of headroom in excess of its carrying value.
At this time given the state of Spain's economy we slowed down the projected pace of Ibero's capacity growth in our discounted cash flow projections that are used to estimate Ibero's fair value which primarily resulted in the impairment charge.
Now turning to our 2012 outlook.
I will skip the net revenue yield outlook as Howard will discuss that shortly.
On the cost side for the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD are forecasted to be flat versus the prior year.
This is consistent with our December guidance despite the $45 million of Costa Concordia incident expenses and the $34 million of Costa Allegra impairment charge which increased the year-over-year cost metrics by 1.1 percentage points.
Our operating companies identified opportunities in a number of areas to reduce costs offsetting these items.
At this point I will turn the call over to Howard.
Thank you David and good morning again to everyone.
I'm going to comment -- to make some comments on the outlook for 2012 talk a little bit more about the Costa situation.
While the Costa Concordia event has had a profound effect on our business and indeed the business of the entire cruise industry as time passes we are confident that our business will improve.
Indeed as I will comment on later our North American brand booking patterns have improved during the last 7 weeks since the event in mid-January.
In Continental Europe the impact of the event on the European market and our European businesses has been greater and it seems that it will take more time for those markets to return to normal booking levels.
We have however recently seen some positive trends in our European business so we are hopeful that booking patterns will return to normal levels sooner than we might have originally expected.
As I comment on the business outlook for the remainder of 2012 for purposes of having more meaningful comparisons of booking trends fleet-wide and for the EAA markets I will be excluding the Costa metrics.
As we indicated in the press release after the Concordia incident Costa curtailed its marketing.
In most markets Costa has still not reestablished its marketing although plans are underway to start these efforts over the next several weeks.
I will comment separately on the Costa business later on in my talk as a separate matter.
On a fleet-wide basis excluding Costa constant dollar revenue yield guidance is being lowered from December guidance by approximately 1.5% for 2012.
As a result revenue yields in 2012 excluding Costa are now expected to be in line with 2011 yields.
As to the current status of bookings on a fleet-wide basis again keep in mind I'm excluding Costa occupancies for the remaining 3 quarters are lower than a year ago due to slightly higher prices.
All my comments on pricing will be on a constant dollar basis as I go through my presentation this morning.
For North American brands occupancies are slightly lower at slightly higher prices.
And for EAA brands occupancies are lower at higher prices again.
With respect to recent booking trends beginning in January for the first 2 weeks of wave season bookings were quite strong on a fleet-wide basis driven by our North American brands which experienced higher booking volumes and higher pricing year-over-year.
EAA bookings were also higher year-over-year during the first 2 weeks of January at lower pricing.
So even before the Costa incident we continued to experience softer European pricing which we attributed to the slowing Europe economies together with the government austerity programs being implemented or expected to be implemented in many of the countries in Europe in which we market.
Since the Costa grounding incident in mid-January the booking patterns for North America and for EAA brands have slowed significantly.
On a fleet-wide basis bookings for the last 7 weeks -- and of course this excludes Costa -- through March 4 are running lower year-over-year in the mid- to high-single digits at slightly lower pricing.
The week-to-week patterns have been uneven with some weeks being stronger than others partly resulting from the timing of marketing efforts by the brands.
For North American brands booking volumes during the 7-week period have been lower in the mid-single digits range on a year-over-year basis at slightly lower prices.
The weakest itineraries for the North American brands have been their European programs which is a trend we began to see beginning last year starting with the European sovereign debt and banking crisis and the problems in Greece.
Higher airfares between North America and Europe have also been a challenge.
North American brands also source a significant portion of their European cruise programs from the Europe market so the economic slowdown in Europe has also affected the North American-brand European cruises.
For EAA brands excluding Costa booking volumes during the 7-week period on a year-over-year basis have been running lower in the mid-teens range and at lower prices.
Our AIDA brand in Germany and our Ibero brand in Spain have felt the greatest impact during this period.
Our U.K.
brands are holding up relatively well as compared to our Continental European brands.
We have recently seen trends in Germany so we are -- we have recently seen improving trends in Germany so we are hopeful that we have finally turned the corner there as well.
Now let me turn to Costa.
As most of you know Costa has a worldwide sales and marketing network with its primary source markets in Continental Europe South America North America and Asia.
In recent years it has also developed new markets in Eastern Europe.
Since the grounding on January 13 Costa has not been marketing its cruises.
Indeed Costa offered the opportunity for passes booked on any Costa ship to cancel their cruise through February 7.
There were in fact relatively few cancellations which we consider to be a very positive sign.
Where possible passengers booked on future Concordia cruises were rebooked on other Costa Cruises.
As a result there was a considerable number of cancellations and rebookings in the Costa booking pattern so it was difficult to get a clear picture of booking trends post the grounding.
Without any marketing Costa's bookings during the first 4 weeks after the grounding ran approximately 80% to 90% lower on a year-over-year basis.
More recently during the last 3 weeks to March 4 bookings ran 40% to 50% lower year-over-year.
So with virtually no marketing the booking picture is improving.
As Costa begins to implement its marketing programs which is already starting in certain markets we expect their booking trends to gradually improve.
While certain of Costa's markets may take longer to come back because of its broad marketing reach Costa has the ability to source passengers from its other markets.
However estimates are that it will take up to a year before the booking trends start to normalize in some of its markets.
During this period Costa has adopted a strategy in its primary markets to hold its pricing even at the expense of lower occupancies in order to maintain an orderly market.
For 2012 Costa is forecasting a loss for the year of approximately $100 million or a swing of $500 million from its previous earnings forecast.
Most of this swing relates to reduced revenues including the lost capacity from the Costa Concordia.
It also includes approximately $27 million of one-time Concordia-related costs and $34 million relating to the Allegra incident including the write-down of the value of the ship which David mentioned before.
Having said all this Costa is beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel but it will take some time to get there.
So there should be no doubt we view Costa as a great company and a great brand with a terrific management team and with a great future.
Micky and I take this opportunity to thank Pier Foschi and the entire Costa management team for their most extraordinary efforts during this most difficult period.
Now let me turn to revised guidance.
The midpoint of our revised non-GAAP guidance for the year of $1.55 per share is a reduction of $1.15 from our December guidance of $2.70.
That was the midpoint of our guidance.
Included in the $1.15 of guidance reduction is $0.65 which represents the decline in Costa's earnings of which I mentioned before of which $0.08 is one-time cost.
The reduction of our other North American and Europe EAA brand revenue yield forecast amounts to $0.19.
Higher fuel prices for all these other brands net of currency from that used in the December guidance is forecasted to reduce earnings by $0.40.
And there is a net benefit from other items mostly reduced cost of approximately $0.09 a share which gets us to the $1.15.
So apart from the increase in fuel prices our other brands' earnings are lower by approximately $0.10 per share from the December guidance.
Now I'll move on to give you some colors by each of the quarters.
Turning to the second quarter -- and when I give you this data it is now x Costa -- fleet-wide capacity for the second quarter is up 2.7% 2.9% for North America brands and 2.2% for EAA brands.
At the present time on a fleet-wide basis pricing is slightly higher than a year ago at slightly lower occupancies versus last year.
North American brand fleet-wide pricing is higher than a year ago at flat occupancies.
North American brands are 56% in the Caribbean approximately the same as last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
Caribbean pricing is nicely higher than a year ago at approximately the same occupancy levels as last year.
Pricing for all other itineraries taken together is higher than a year ago at slightly lower occupancies.
EAA brand fleet-wide pricing excluding Costa is slightly lower than a year ago on lower occupancies.
EAA brands are 50% in Europe slightly up from 47% last year with the balance in various other itineraries.
EAA brand European pricing is up slightly versus a year ago on lower occupancies.
EAA pricing on all other itineraries taken together is lower than last year also at lower occupancies.
On an overall basis we are currently forecasting that constant dollar revenue yields will be flat to down slightly for the second quarter slightly higher in North America slightly lower for EAA.
For the second quarter guidance we are guiding earnings in the range of $0.05 to $0.09 or a midpoint of $0.07.
This is versus $0.26 in the second quarter of 2011.
Swing in earnings for the second quarter of -- from the second quarter of 2011 is primarily due to the Costa impact of about $0.12 a share and higher fuel costs of about $0.10 a share.
Now turning to the third quarter.
Capacity is expected to be up in the 2.9% range 3.4% in North America 2.2% in EAA.
On a fleet-wide basis third quarter pricing is higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
North American brand pricing is slightly higher than a year ago at lower occupancies.
North American brand capacity in the third quarter is 38% in the Caribbean slightly higher than a year ago; 24% in Alaska the same slightly higher; and 25% in Europe which was about the same as last year.
Pricing for Caribbean itineraries is higher than a year ago with pricing for Alaska and Europe cruises flat with last year.
Occupancies for the Caribbean and Alaska cruises are slightly lower versus last year and occupancies for Europe cruises are lower than last year.
For EAA brands pricing is nicely higher than a year ago at lower occupancies.
EAA brand capacity is 85% in Europe itineraries which is slightly up from 82% the prior year.
EAA brand constant dollar pricing for European and all other itineraries is higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
Now turning to the fourth quarter.
Fleet-wide capacity in the fourth quarter is expected to be 2.9% higher than last year 3.7% for North America brands 1.7% for EAA brands.
This of course excludes Costa.
Fleet-wide pricing is slightly higher than a year ago at lower occupancies.
Much business remains to be booked for the fourth quarter so I caution not to read too much into this information.
North American brand pricing in the fourth quarter is flat versus last year at lower occupancies.
North American brands are 43% in the Caribbean slightly higher than a year ago 13% in Europe which is about the same as the past year with the balance in various other itineraries.
Caribbean pricing is higher than a year ago at higher occupancies.
Europe pricing is also higher versus last year at lower occupancies and pricing for all other itineraries taken together is higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
Turning to EAA.
EAA pricing which is the EAA brands of 61% in Europe itineraries is nicely higher versus the year ago at lower occupancies.
So that kind of wraps up the current status of the booking picture for 2012.
And I think with that Kayla I think we can open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> In the release -- and I guess this should be directed to Micky but also Howard -- your comment on price discounting was interesting especially since occupancies are lagging in almost every quarter.
I'm just wondering are you actually seeing improvement fast enough to make you comfortable that customers won't need a little nudge especially in Europe given how that's also lagging? I don't know what you mean by a little nudge.
But I think...
Research Division</strong> Well I guess what I mean is a little stimulation.
I'm kidding Felicia.
I guess what we're saying is that our brands -- and we're obviously comfortable with what we're saying here.
And the reality is all we're saying is that marketing efforts discounting et cetera to achieve our yields forecast will not be greater than last year or shouldn't be greater than last year.
But that's not to say there wasn't incentive for booking last year as well.
So it's not that marketing activities won't continue.
It's not that -- but we're very comfortable with this forecast based on the information we have to date and we believe that they're very achievable.
And we'll do what marketing efforts we need to do to get it done.
Clearly the pattern is -- has been positive as we get further away from the incident.
I think as we've emerged from this period and based on a lot of the surveys we've done in different markets not in all markets certainly not in certain European markets the issue of the Concordia incident has really fallen away as a major obstacle for selling cruises.
So it's come back to great value great vacations.
And our guys really apart from the Costa situation feel that things are getting better.
So that -- the close-in patterns are good which is not necessarily always good for us.
We like to see further out booking patterns and I think that's going to start to happen as business gets stronger closer in then bookings get pushed out and pricing gets -- becomes more sustainable.
So I think they're feeling pretty good about the situation and we're not totally out of the woods.
I don't want to suggest that.
But certainly the trending seems to be quite positive right now.
I think Howard's point is a good point.
We've done consumer surveys now in all our major markets and all our brands are doing them.
And by far the #1 reason why people are holding out is not safety.
Safety is way down the list.
There is a clear recognition that this is a very very safe industry.
The #1 consistently across-the-board is that expectation that prices are getting lower.
And at this point there's no reason to believe that's going to be the case versus last year.
And hopefully as people realize it they'll come off the fence and book their vacations.
Research Division</strong> That's actually very very helpful color.
I appreciate that.
And then just on Europe and kind of in line with your answer there obviously there's weakness coming from North American-sourced consumer.
You mentioned airfare among some other things but what can you do to offset that airfare issue as a gating factor for the North American consumer who might want a cruise in Europe but who's kind of getting some sticker shock? Well they can take Queen Mary 2.
No.
I mean they're -- look our guys are pretty creative when it comes to the marketing side and they are taking actions to strengthen the booking pattern for European cruises and they're doing it in various ways.
Each brand does it uniquely different than the other.
They don't like -- they don't copy each other necessarily.
So we're seeing bookings in Europe.
It's just -- it has been slow and it's going to be -- it's probably not going to be our best year in Europe and -- but I think that they will be creative.
We haven't added a huge amount of capacity North American brands to the European programs this year.
It is up some but not a whole lot.
5%.
5%.
By the way I was only partially kidding.
Because as airfares across the Atlantic get higher Queen Mary 2 gets to be a greater and greater value.
And it's the best way to go to Europe or back.
Research Division</strong> Then you'd have to take 2 cruises.
Absolutely.
And you need...
Nothing wrong with that but the food is so much better.
Our next question comes on the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wonder given that it's kind of a departure to have occupancy down and obviously it's to protect the brand does it make sense at some point to take some Costa ships out of service to eliminate the operating expense while the occupancy is down? Yes.
I want to at least have the opportunity to clarify that comment about occupancy with Costa.
It's clearly a short-term tactic based on present information and the fact that Costa in many of its markets still is not doing any advertising.
So it's the reality of the situation.
It's a tactic.
As soon as that changes as soon as they are comfortable from a PR point of view to start marketing they will do that and hopefully bring this occupancy up.
But our forecasts are built on the concept that the majority of their yield deterioration will be occupancy.
Right.
And just let me comment further that a lot of the occupancy loss is occurring now.
So on a shorter time frame we'll see a greater proportion of the occupancy loss.
Longer term further out we shouldn't have much occupancy loss on any of the brands.
And then just one more point on the issue of looking at other possibilities I mean clearly the company -- because it has a unique ability to source in so many different markets it is looking further out and into 2013 at their itineraries currently and will make some adjustments indeed I think for this winter.
This coming winter they're moving another ship to the South American market to the Brazil and Argentina zones.
Brazil.
We did by the way think about and look at laying up ships.
But because of the disruptive nature and the short-term nature of the occupancy decline we don't believe that that would make sense for the long-term strength of the brand.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I wonder if you can give a little bit of color.
You talked about some of the sequential year-over-year changes for the Costa brand seeing how that had improved from the initial weeks.
Can you give a little bit of color on the change for North American brands or company-wide x Costa? You mentioned down mid- to high-single digits and that sounded like a cumulative change over the 7 weeks but just to get some sense of how that trended from week 1 through week 7.
Yes.
I think for North America what we're seeing is actually a little bit of surprise.
The contemporary brand Carnival seems to be performing stronger than their premium brands and -- but I think part of the premium brand issue as we read through it is also these European cruises this spring summer and fall.
But Carnival we thought there would be more of a first-timer issue.
They seem to have come through this quite nicely right now.
And first timers appear to be from everything they can see because their bookings have been up recently that first timers -- we don't have the data specifically on first timers.
It's too early but it looks like Carnival Cruise Lines will not have any kind of a problem.
For Holland America Princess and even Seabourn they're doing fine except for these European cruises and they're doing all they can to try to shore that up right now.
But Alaska seems to be okay.
Their Caribbean programs are fine.
All their other long-term programs are fine.
So I think that's sort of the North America situation.
And it has gotten stronger each week.
As I say it's a little bit uneven depending on how much marketing they're doing.
But each week the pattern is getting stronger and stronger.
It's interesting because the perception out there was that Carnival Cruise Lines because they have more first timers and more North America and because of the name recognition vis-à-vis Costa would be most impacted.
But in reality they've been the least impacted.
And in fact their business is up year-over-year.
And they're our best performing brand right now on a year-over-year basis.
Looking at the North American brand specifically I mean shortly after the incident they started down in the double-digits and they improved considerably.
As Howard mentioned in his notes it varies week by week depending on the marketing activities of each brand.
But it is overall a general positive trend into the low-single digits.
Research Division</strong> So in other words -- that’s what I was trying to clarify.
If the down mid- to high-single digits is cumulative and it was initially down double-digits are the last sort of 2 weeks or so down -- it sounds like you're saying it’s down less than 5% year-over-year? It's really -- I'd rather give you overall -- you’re really looking at it on a rolling basis because the weeks can be very uneven.
But they are getting positive yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can we just talk a little bit about the $173 million charge related to Ibero goodwill and trademark? I guess I don't completely understand it because by taking the charge and you're saying slower-than-anticipated capacity growth due to the current state of the Spanish economy does that essentially assume that you think the Spanish economy will be weak forever? That's the way I read that write-off and how you're able to do it.
And then...
Can I answer that question first? Research Division</strong> Sure guys.
Sure.
The reality is the way this is done -- and maybe David can explain it better than I can.
It's a long-term model and in that long-term model we had projections of moving ships into the brand and growing the brand over time.
In reality over the last 12 months we have reduced capacity by moving the Grand Voyager out of the brand and our competitors Pullmantur have also pulled capacity out of the marketplace.
So was it realistic to continue to assume that we're just going to add capacity when we're actually reducing capacity? And so when we pulled that capacity out of the model it required this write-off.
David...
Correct.
Yes.
We just basically slowed down the future growth of capacity.
We still believe in the Spanish market longer term.
But at the moment I think we've said a number of times that Ibero was struggling as a result of the economy.
I think the unemployment rate is still like 20% in Spain.
And as a result of that we felt this was the right thing to do.
Yes.
I mean I think Steve it's going to take longer.
I think we felt it's going to take longer for the Spanish economy to return to reasonable levels of strength so that -- it was hard to justify today that 3 or 5 years whenever we're adding a ship would happen.
We just -- with a marginal call on the goodwill for a while we were covered with this additional capacity 3 5 years out.
But once we took that capacity out of the model and it was difficult for us to support it internally we just felt uncomfortable with it that let's just take it out and take the charge so we don't have to deal with it later on.
It doesn't mean we wouldn't add that capacity later on if the market supported it.
And clearly we think the Spanish market will come back but it may take a few more years than we originally thought.
That's clearly seems to be what people are saying.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just -- if you did add capacity back on then what's the accounting for it? I mean if you decided to do that in 2 years? There's no change.
You can't write back up goodwill.
Research Division</strong> That's what I thought.
Okay.
So then the second issue is just on Costa I think it was you Howard who had said that you thought it would come back in 1 year or -- that was your number.
What was -- or your time frame.
What's giving you the confidence that it's 1 year and not 6 months or 3 years? Well there's been a lot of -- when I said -- let me get into that.
When I said come back I said for most markets the pattern should start to -- they expect the patterns should start to normalize in about a year.
Now what -- all the work and research have been -- huge amount of research done over in Europe by Costa on the process by which -- how this is going to happen using benchmarks from other companies had in crisis situations.
I think that -- while there's nothing that says that this pattern's going to follow those patterns there is a feeling that on many of the major -- and by the way we're starting to see -- many of Costa's markets are coming back already and starting to show some normalization but they're not the major markets.
The major markets for Costa will be Germany Italy of course France and Spain.
We're seeing evidence in France and Spain actually of their business coming back already less so in Italy and Germany.
But we need Italy and Germany.
Italy for sure and...
Actually Germany had a good week last week but 1 week is not...
Yes.
Italy for sure is going to be the major challenge.
But I think the feeling is that 1 year from now based on these very smart people who seem to have been through this before and the sense of the positive trending we're starting to see now without any marketing out there that we should get back to more normal booking levels.
Where the pricing -- I think -- I'm not sure pricing will come back to the same levels but we'll see.
But I think we'll gradually come out of this in '13.
I think '13 should -- obviously will show an improvement over '12 but it may take 1 year or 2 to get back to the kind of profitability that we expected to have in 2012.
And obviously -- it's blatantly obvious but from 1 year ago Costa's capacity now will be down 3 ships with -- they sold the Costa Marina the Concordia and now the Allegra.
So their capacity is 3 ships less than we would have expected in '13.
Our next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification and then a bigger-picture question.
So in your comments you mentioned that Costa has swung about $500 million in profitability to a loss of $100 million.
About how much of that -- how much is that on an earnings basis? And is that -- that's embedded in your 2012 guidance? Yes.
I mean -- yes that's all in -- what I was trying to do was explain the major reduction in guidance and that represented $0.65 of the $1.15 in lower guidance Harry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a 30 000-foot question.
In the hotel industry there's an adage that the industry doesn't really know if it's overbuilt until it builds one room too many and that's a topic that probably applies to the cruise industry as well.
And my question is is it overbuilt? Should the industry really be adding any capacity here? We're still -- you can go back to the normal stuff.
We're still a very very small piece of the vacation market.
And the reality of the growth potential in many of our markets is still very big.
And we've said that we're growing at a much much slower pace 2 to 3 ships a year and we've also said that the 2 or 3 ships a year will not be all incremental capacity because some of the older ships will be sold and taken out of the fleet.
And in fact the Allegra was for sale and we had anticipated taking her out of the fleet as soon as we had a buyer.
So the growth rate will be coming down but I still think there's plenty of growth potential in this industry.
Remember unlike the hotel industry we operate at full occupancy.
Hotel industry operates at 70% or 75% occupancy.
And with 2 to 3 ships a year if you net out some sales as Micky mentioned you're really probably only talking about a 3% or 4% capacity growth which was really in line with the population growth in many of the markets and where we operate.
And actually it is less than the growth of the let's say the 45-plus age population growth in many of the markets we're operating.
So we feel that we have slowed down the capacity growth in line with our overall marketplace.
Research Division</strong> But as a practical matter the industry through the cycle has really only averaged maybe just over 1% yield growth and that's not going to drive your return on invested capital.
I think you've got to get your pricing higher to do that.
And so has there been any consideration that the 2 to 3 ships a year should really be a lower number? But keep in mind Harry the 1% you're talking about is in a period of time where you're talking about a high-single digit and in many cases double-digit capacity growth.
And so now we're talking about low-single-digit capacity growth.
And the reason we changed the strategy was for the very point you mentioned in the hopes that we wouldn't necessarily have to discount the cruises as much compared to other vacation alternatives.
We could begin to close the gap get a little bit more pricing power and improve our return on investments.
There's no question we agree with you that the product deserves much higher yield growth and hopefully in the future we'll see it.
But we have gone through a financial crisis and I won't go through the whole litany of stuff.
But the reality is that we believe with the slower capacity growth that in a normalized period of time we can get significantly higher yield growth.
And historically we haven't had cost growth so that the returns could return.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> As you look out to 2013 I'm assuming if you kind of even exclude the Costa line that things will be normalized by then.
And if that's the case would you actually expect maybe even a greater bump up in terms of the growth rate in terms of whether it's bookings or net yields just because you face really easy comparisons from -- you'll face easy comparisons from 2012? Greg the one thing I will agree with you on is the comparisons will be easier for 2012.
I hate to get into talking about 2013 just yet.
I think it's still early.
But clearly the comparisons will be easier.
I think we like -- look I think we've got a great business.
I think we like -- we got our strong brand positionings in each of the major markets.
When we started the year this year the first 2 weeks of January where I mentioned our business was quite strong our bookings were up our pricing was up especially in North America we were feeling that this could be a very very strong year and then this event came along.
So yes I think 2013 absent exogenous events that -- and the European economy going into a real tailspin we're doing okay.
Even the U.K.
market -- North America looks fine to us actually.
U.K.
market even with all this noise out there is coming right -- it's coming through very nicely right now and with very little sign that the incident is affecting their business at all right now.
And so we feel good about that and we know Germany's going to come back.
The AIDA brand is an amazing brand with an amazing management team very talented people running it and the strongest position in the German market.
And Costa we think it's going to go through a little bit of pain this year and a little bit less pain in 2013 but it clearly will be better.
And so I think the future is bright for us.
I really feel good about the business right now.
Research Division</strong> And just kind of keeping on the theme -- I mean -- so when you look at your price versus occupancy how do you look at that? Because I guess in -- next year it's a lot harder to recover if you start discounting now.
So are you thinking maybe even give up a little bit of occupancy because then it's easier to kind of work off the pricing base that you'll have in 2012? Our long-term strategy on occupancy and price has not changed.
Our discussion about giving occupancy in Costa is a short-term tactical situation based on present events.
But you should expect that our long-term strategy which we believe is the way to maximize profitability has not changed.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> First of all just a clarification.
The $30 million roughly deductible or right about that amount for the ship where is that included in relation to the whole comments regarding Costa? So just a clarification from that standpoint.
And I guess the other one also if you would have the capacity by quarters inclusive of Costa? And then I guess more of a real question here too.
Given that Costa the Carnival brand and AIDA appear to be your most profitable brands and the Carnival brand you've already commented on what it's doing; and then AIDA as AIDA starts to come back how much of a recovery I guess have you built into your expectations for this year for the AIDA brand in 2012 from the present levels? Okay.
Well let me start with the $30 million deductible relating to the Costa Concordia.
At the time we put that into the 10-K it wasn't clear what the end result of the ship would be.
Now that it's been declared a constructive total loss the deductible no longer applies.
It's just a part of the overall policy.
And therefore that $30 million disappeared from the financial analysis.
As far as the capacity by quarter let's see.
The total capacity we’re up 3.7% in the first quarter; 2.7% second; 2.9% third; 2.9% fourth; and 3.0% for the full year.
That includes Costa.
And that includes Costa yes.
On the AIDA question Tim I think they've taken down their revenue yields as a result of these -- this hit.
This interim hit.
But they see the business coming back so their -- but they have -- for purposes of our forecast they have taken down their revenue yields as a result of the incident.
But I think that they're starting to see business come back.
But there will be some level of hit because they've taken -- in order to fill close-in they've had to take pricing down a little bit.
I think last week they were up year-over-year for the first time.
So that was very encouraging.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the bookings Micky? Yes yes.
Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I guess my other question is back to more let's call it normal state of affairs one of the prior questions related to the slower capacity and so forth.
Yes you've had some good cost leverage and a good history of doing that.
Do you still feel comfortable of maintaining that -- I guess you'd said before roughly 1/2 the rate of inflation or so with the lower capacity growth as you look out into '13 '14 and '15 at this point.
We've consistently said flat to 1/2 of inflation.
And the reason we're comfortable with that is because we are working on quite a number of things.
We have a corporate group.
We’ve got a profit improvement program.
They've got lots of different things going on.
The gold mine of opportunity for us is the continuation of the brands working together to leverage our size to work through collectively in order to save money.
And we've been working on that extensively over the last couple of years and that gold mine of opportunity is far from completely harvested at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I may one...
Short answer is yes.
Answer is yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
One last clarification.
The Allegra at this point scrap? Or can it be recovered and then eventually sold as you were originally planning? Yes.
I mean we've written her down because it was our intent to -- it is not our intent to put her back into service and we believe that the repair cost will be more than we'd want to spend to put her back in service.
Whether we sell her or scrap her that decision hasn't been made yet.
We have to get a full cost of what it will take to repair her.
She's on the market for sale she has been but we're going to have to obviously reduce the price of the ship for sale and we’ll see what happens.
In the last year or so there have been a couple of different groups expressing an interest in that ship.
We've written her down to a level that we feel comfortable that we'll be able to get at least that.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Wieczynski with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just going back to the expense question David I guess when we look at your expense forecast now I'm pretty surprised it's essentially still flat from where it was back in December.
And you talked about that you guys identified some expenses that you can cut out.
Can you just walk us through just where those are coming from or maybe what buckets those are coming out of? And then does your expense forecast include anything in terms of higher cost for whether it's safety standards or insurance deductibles or anything like that? Yes.
We looked at every single line item.
To start with on the advertising front I mean we had talked about the fact that advertising was down in the first quarter because all the brands essentially stopped advertising for some period of time after the event.
We do expect to spend most of that money in the remainder of the year but probably not all of it.
So some of it came in the form of advertising.
We looked through the G&amp;A expenses travel training cutting back in all areas that weren't essential.
All of the operating companies' CEOs talked to their people and identified numerous items relating to ship operating expenses that could be saved without impacting the product.
And one other item is we built our forecast early in the year on inflation assumptions.
And what we noticed was in the first 3 months of the year our inflation assumptions were a little high so we brought them down for the back half of the year.
And as a result of the lower expectations we were able to reduce costs in the remaining 3 quarters to cover some of those one-time expenses we talked about.
I guess just a clarification just probably because I'm more sensitive to it than some other people.
But when David talks about saving on training the focus is on hotel training not safety training not emergency training.
Just hotel and that sort of stuff.
Mostly shore and shore-side training.
Just to finish up on the issue of potential regulations clearly this is something that with the safety group that we have both internally and with CLIA those recommendations when found would go to the IMO.
And if they think that we can institute immediately we would obviously do that like we did with the muster drill change that we did with CLIA.
But anything that was more structural or anything like that that would be costly would have to go through the IMO process that would take quite some time.
So it's not something that would be in our '13 expectations -- our '12 expectations sorry.
Our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva with Infinity Research.
Howard I wanted to ask for a clarification.
When you gave Q3 and Q4 outlooks those were without Costa.
Is that correct? Yes.
And I didn't give -- actually it wasn't the outlook.
It was really the current status of bookings and it was without Costa x Costa.
Would you be able to give us that type of color on Costa only? I think the issue with Costa is that since it's -- everything related to what that company is going to do this year is going to be such a one-off situation that to try to -- and even speculating on the situation or giving you data points I don't think is worthwhile information.
Let's just look at it for this year as a very challenging year a rebuilding process a retooling process a remarketing process.
So when you're not looking -- when you don't have marketing out there your websites aren't doing any marketing.
Even your basic website is difficult to market on today.
Giving you information like that I think wouldn’t enable you to get a sense as to what the real business is doing.
That's why I chose to say -- look this is what the profit we expected it to be this is what the profit loss is going to be this is the swing and let's look forward to 2013.
Okay fair enough.
Going back to the state of affairs for Q3 and again I guess excluding Costa at this point do you -- have you built any upside on a year-on-year basis given that in April and May we are entering much easier comparisons when we had the Arab Spring and the Japan earthquake events impacting bookings in the year-ago period? Is that built into your Q3 forecast? Or are you waiting to anniversary it and then see how it goes? Our forecast is built on what our brand's booking patterns are now and what they perceive they will wind up with at the end of the year.
And then we look at it for reasonability.
And I think based on everything that's happened everybody's a bit conservative.
But obviously it's our best shot at where we're going to wind up.
And historically we've done a pretty good job of that.
Obviously this is the unique set of circumstances and that's why the ranges are a little broader.
But I don't think it has anything to do with last year.
I think it's based on what we're seeing right now and what the perception is going forward and where we're going to wind up.
And remember the MENA effect last year was mostly within Costa.
A large portion of the cost of MENA was actually in the Costa brand.
So most of the other brands I think are marginally affected by MENA but not to a great degree.
Yes.
The 300 itinerary changes that were made last year because of MENA were virtually all Costa.
And maybe that's why you were interested in Costa Assia.
I mean I don't know but yes.
Well partly because of that and also just to get more of a sense as to how you expect their booking patterns to recover over time since you gave us the breakdown the first 4 weeks -- the most recent 3 weeks.
I thought that would be interesting.
And again one last question.
Any update on the time frame for the removal of the Concordia hull at this point? Or are you still waiting on bids to actually finalize plans? Well one of the challenges I think is going to be the salvage of that ship.
Salvage bids just came in earlier this month and they’re being evaluated right now.
Realistically though I mean -- and that's one of the challenges Costa's going to have -- we don't expect -- it's going to be a unique salvage.
It's never been done in this order of magnitude.
So there's a lot of planning and engineering that needs to go into it and probably building some unique tools to do it with.
And it's realistic to think that the process -- what they're saying right now is we shouldn't expect the salvage process to begin until after the summer.
So it could be there for quite some time the hull of the ship.
And I imagine winter -- yes go ahead David.
Yes.
No Costa did indicate in a press release this morning that because of the complexity they do expect the duration to be 10 to 12 months overall.
Our next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit about how the incentives have changed the level of them year-over-year and maybe how that might impact onboard spending in the next quarter or 2? And then also if you have any more color on Alaska that would be really helpful.
I think -- I'm not sure if I recall correctly but I think it sounded a little bit more positive on last quarter's call.
Jaime when you say -- you said the level of incentives you're talking about the pricing? Research Division</strong> Well yes the pricing and what you guys are using to get people onboard whether that's onboard credits or some sort of program like that to incentivize them.
Well overall I mean all our brands depending on the marketplace and the itinerary in some cases it's pricing.
In some cases it's an upgrade.
In some cases it's an onboard credit.
Our brands are very creative and they do what works in each situation.
So there's a little bit of everything thrown in across all of the brands around the world.
As far as the onboard spend is concerned Howard did indicate that excluding Costa he expected the prices overall for the year to be in line with the prior year.
So taking a look at that we weren't necessarily expecting a significant change and we built into our onboard revenue forecast an increase.
We actually had -- excluding Costa we probably had about 1.5 points of yield increase on the onboard side in the December guidance.
The first quarter came in much more than we had anticipated and so we did build in a little bit of an increase in those numbers for the remainder of the year.
So we are seeing some good onboard spend increases.
All of the categories are up all the major categories including casino in the first quarter.
I was quite pleased by that.
On the Alaska question Jaime I don’t remember what actually -- what we actually said on Alaska.
I think Alaska's been pretty consistent and solid.
Not spectacular.
But I think -- if anything I think it may -- the picture maybe look a little bit better maybe at the expense of Europe for all I know.
But I mean -- people doing more Alaska cruises than Europe cruises because of the cost of Europe cruises going up.
But Alaska seems to be doing okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions on yields.
First of all on Costa you're saying it has a 2- to 4-percentage-point impact on group yield which applies Costa yields down 15% to 25% or so.
But then you also said bookings are down I think you said 40% to 50% of the last 4 weeks.
That seems to imply quite a sharp recovery over the next few months.
And then the other question was -- I'm just interested in trying to strip out the sort of noise post-Concordia and what sort of trajectory you were on.
In ways you said it started well.
Your onboards are better.
Royal was guiding originally to 2% to 4% underlying.
I'm just wondering whether you would have increased your original yield guidance of 1% to 2%.
Okay.
Well as far as Costa's concerned Jamie -- I mean you're right.
The math -- the way the math works since it's 15% of our capacity that 15% to 25% range makes sense.
One thing to keep in mind that we talked about is the majority of that is going to come in the form of occupancy when you're talking about yield decline.
So at the moment Costa's behind in terms of bookings in the high-single digits.
So they can continue to be behind on a year-over-year basis considerably to wind up with a 15% to 25% occupancy decline -- or yield decline most of it coming from occupancy.
This isn't a situation where Costa has to catch up.
It's not a zero-sum game.
They don't have to exceed last year's booking patterns in order to make this guidance.
So it's a little bit different from that perspective.
As far as the full year guidance is concerned we did exceed the guidance in the first quarter.
It was 1.5% to 2.5%.
We came in at 2.9%.
So the year was starting off strongly.
We're very pleased.
I think Micky indicated that before.
So I'd like to believe we might have increased it but it's very hard to say at this point what would have happened.
I'm not sure if I said this but [indiscernible] is asking me this question.
But North America brands for that first 2 weeks of January were up in the mid-teens levels in terms of bookings.
So it was off to -- we were off to a very very positive start for North America.
Even the booking period over the holidays which is normally extremely quiet was very strong this year.
So we were very encouraged up until January 13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just follow up on Costa.
Are you absolutely confident in the future of the brand? Is there any risk it does need a sort of rebranding or anything like that? And also what's the goodwill for Costa please? We are totally confident in the brand.
I mean it's a global brand.
All the surveys we've done so far whether they're in Continental Europe or other markets indicate that the issue certainly in other markets is becoming less and less of an issue the incident itself.
Business has picked up in these other markets and we're forecasting that it will take time in the Central European markets or primary European markets to get back to normal.
But there's no reason -- I think people even in Italy are seeing this as a one-time freak event and don't see it as a fundamental issue with the company or the brand or the management or the safety of the ships.
It's just a very unfortunate incident and most of the polls seem to support that notion so -- and are getting better and better on the issue.
So we think it's going to come back fairly -- take 1 year 2 to come back but it's going to come back.
Jamie we don't have the goodwill for Costa with us but you can call Beth after the call.
I'm sure she can fill you in on some of the details.
I will say that when we last did the Costa goodwill test which we did -- we do every July there was a considerable amount of headroom.
And our expectation is that the brand will be rebuilt and it will perform and so we're not concerned about a goodwill impairment in relation to Costa.
One of the encouraging things is -- obviously Italy is the biggest issue.
And our surveys -- we've done extensive surveys in Italy.
And the encouraging thing is that the Italian consumer continues to view Costa as a great vacation option and a terrific vacation value.
When the majority of the population feels that way you feel very strongly that once we get past this they're going to want to experience the product because that's the way they feel right now.
So wherever -- there's no question that Costa's going to come back and come back stronger than ever over the long term.
Research Division</strong> On the comment about the $3.3 billion of free cash flow which includes I guess $0.5 billion of insurance proceeds that just about covers the capital investment and the quarterly dividend as it currently is.
Are you signaling you're unlikely to return additional cash to shareholders this year please? We're not trying to signal anything.
We're just trying to give the facts as they are.
We weren't trying to signal anything.
Just that [ph] there would be no need to go to the markets to borrow any money in the banks.
And our cash flows will cover our dividend as well as our capital cost for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Stanford with Oriel Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just one question if I may picking up on your comments just now on the dividend.
Should we read anything into your declaration of the dividend post the Concordia incident? And how does that fit relative to guidance in your 30% to 40% payout ratio plans please? I think overall we said in the long term the 30% to 40% was our target.
But the reason we chose the 30% to 40% was because we believe that that was sustainable through all cycles.
This is a cycle and therefore we're -- we believe the dividend is sustainable until the earnings comes back.
And that was kind of -- I mean that's what we have pointed out in the press release that the cash flow is sufficient to cover all our CapEx and the dividend.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Rennardson with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Ian Rennardson of Jefferies.
I just have one final question.
Are you comfortable that your insurance will cover all eventualities? Yes we're comfortable.
Yes.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of David Liebowitz with Horizon Kinetics.
First when will the Italian Naval Board issue their report? We have no idea.
No.
Italy is Italy and they're going through their process.
We're cooperating in every way we can.
You mean the Coast Guard or Naval? Or Coast Guard? Well whatever the point of inquiry is are we talking then something let's say by June or October? I mean do you have...
No I suspect that -- look I don't know which particular -- there are a number of different organizations regulatory-wise looking at the incident and probably will do some -- their own evaluations.
There's also a prosecution -- ongoing question of prosecution for the -- against certain people or potentially the company.
But we don't think that's going to happen relative to the event.
That could go on for quite some time in Italy as Micky indicates.
Well second how are we doing with our -- if not hedging whatever contractual arrangements we're making for fuel for the balance of this year? I think David went over that.
You want to...
Yes.
It's in the press release.
We've got the table for the back half of 2012 as well as '13 '14 and '15 where 20% of our consumption is collared.
Is collared yes.
So nothing for the second quarter but 20% in the third and fourth.
And given the collars et cetera how low would the price of fuel have to go for you to foreshorten the Q1 Q2 crossings so you could get an extra selling or 2? We'll never do that if the fuel consumption is just too large.
The likelihood is we'd lengthen it rather than shorten it.
When we lengthened it from 6 to 7 days the fuel savings was high enough that we didn't need any additional revenue to make the profitability increase.
And in fact we did get some additional revenue.
So it was the correct decision and we're actually studying lengthening it again to reduce the speed again.
I mean we have a huge focus on reducing consumption.
And the passenger response on the ship has been terrific.
They don't have a problem taking the additional day at sea.
And lastly the amount or quantity of bookings you are receiving from onboard passengers has that been continuing to go up as it was the last few years? Or is there some sort of ceiling it may have hit? I’m sorry.
I don't know the answer there.
I really don't know the answer.
That will vary by the way by brand David in terms of how much marketing.
Certain brands do a lot more marketing onboard than others for future cruises.
So it really varies by brand.
But I don't -- we don't have any across-the-board answer for you on that.
Sorry.
Our next question comes from the line of Manis Menarils [ph] with Exane [ph].
I just have 2 quick questions please.
Did I hear you correctly when you said that you would expect 1 to 2 years to come back to the expected profits for the group? So would that read -- would I have understood well? And the second point on the operating cash flow of $3.3 billion given the CapEx you've guided for and your dividend expectations would that mean that you would operate on a broadly stable net debt in FY '12 versus 2011? The first part of your question I would say that -- we said 1 to 2 years for the Costa brand.
I think we believe the other brands will recover much more quickly.
And as I think we've said Carnival Cruise Lines is actually booking up year-over-year.
So we think the recovery will be much more quick for the non-Costa business.
It's hard to tell on Costa.
There is feeling that it's going to be 1 year or 2.
Actually I have to say that although the consensus is that I believe it will come back faster than that.
So we'll see.
Second part of your question? As far as the net debt it will be -- essentially that does imply it will be flat.
We do have some maturities this year but we also have a couple of export credits associated with the ship deliveries.
So it should be essentially flat for the year.
Okay.
And can I just have a follow-up on CapEx? After the Allegra do you have any expectations for boosting your CapEx or revisiting some of your ship engines or safety or whatever that you should book this year? We have a very extensive refit program going on at a number of our brands and that is already in our CapEx expectation prior to this quarter.
We also based on lessons learned from a prior but similar event we have had extensive refits to a number of our ships to improve the safety of the fire prevention systems in the engine rooms.
And we've spent many millions of dollars over the last 12 months refitting the ships with additional safety equipment in those areas.
The CapEx requirement for this year is expected to be $2.6 billion dropping down to $1.9 billion for 2013.
Included in those numbers is an investment of $700 million to $750 million for other CapEx for the existing fleet.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well I thank you all for calling in.
And if you have any further questions or details Beth will be available for the rest of the day.
Thanks so much.
Have a great day everyone.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Carnival Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Friday June 22 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
We are all here in Miami: David Bernstein our Chief Financial Officer; Beth Roberts VP of Investor Relations; and Micky Arison Chairman and CEO of Carnival Corporation.
Before we proceed with the formal comments this morning I'm going to just turn it over to Micky.
Hi everybody.
I just want to warn you that -- many of you know we had quite an exciting evening last night and a very long evening last night.
So if during the presentation you hear any snoring in the background that's me and I apologize if I'm not totally coherent this morning.
But I'm going to do the best I can.
David? Thank you Micky.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this conference call will be forward-looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currencies unless otherwise noted as this is a more useful measure of business trends.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the second quarter was $0.20.
The second quarter came in $0.13 above the midpoint of our March guidance.
The improvement was driven by better-than-expected pricing on close-in bookings and higher onboard and other revenue worth $0.05.
Lower net cruise costs excluding fuel were worth $0.03.
Lower fuel prices were worth $0.01; and 2 nonrecurring items each worth $0.02.
The first nonrecurring item relates to insurance proceeds received for the total loss of Costa Concordia in excess of its net book value and was forecasted to be received in the third quarter in our March guidance while the second nonrecurring item is a litigation settlement we received relating to Queen Mary 2's propulsion pod.
Now let's look at our second quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased over 2% roughly the same for both the North American brands and the Europe Australia and Asian brands or as we call them our EAA brands.
Our total net revenue yields increased -- sorry decreased 1.4% in the second quarter.
However excluding Costa total net revenue yields increased 1.1% with net ticket revenue yields flat and net onboard and other revenue yields up 4%.
With respect to net ticket yields the North American brands were up 1.5% driven by improved yields in the Caribbean and Alaska partially offset by lower yields in European and other itineraries.
During the second quarter slightly more than half of the North American brand's capacity was positioned in the Caribbean.
Excluding Costa our EAA brands' net ticket yields were down 2.7%.
For net onboard and other yields again excluding Costa the increase was 4%.
This was driven by our North American brands while our EAA brands excluding Costa were flat despite lower occupancy.
We were pleased with the results as we saw improvement in all categories of onboard revenue.
On the cost side net cruise cost per available lower berth day excluding both fuel and the 2 favorable nonrecurring items I previously mentioned were down 2.2% versus the prior year.
The decline in net cruise cost per ALBD was greater than what we expected in our March guidance.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption per ALBD declined 3.2% this quarter thus continuing a multiple-year savings trend.
Fuel prices this quarter were 12% higher than last year costing us $0.09 per share.
Currency rates this quarter versus the prior year cost us an additional $0.02 as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
In summary the second quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.06 lower than 2011 earnings of $0.26 per share driven by higher fuel prices as reduced revenue yields were more than offset by lower net cruise costs.
Excluded from our non-GAAP EPS but included in our GAAP EPS were unrealized losses on fuel derivatives of $145 million or $0.18 per share resulting from marking to market our portfolio of fuel derivatives.
As we first discussed on the December call we believe it is more meaningful to evaluate our earnings performance by excluding the impact of unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives until the gains or losses are realized.
This appropriately lines up the economic or the cash impact of the fuel derivative with the underlying fuel price risk which it is intended to mitigate.
In March we entered into zero cost collars for an additional 19% of our estimated fuel consumption for the second half of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 bringing the total to approximately 38% for this period.
We feel comfortable with this level of protection for the next 18 months.
In addition we also have zero cost collars in place that cover approximately 19% of our estimated fuel consumption for fiscal 2014 and 2015.
We will look to opportunistically increase these percentages over time.
While the unrealized losses on fuel derivatives are excluded from our non-GAAP EPS realized losses are not.
Through the end of the second quarter there were no realized losses.
However our non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance for 2012 includes $0.07 per share of forecasted realized losses on fuel derivatives by applying the current Brent prices to the derivatives that settled in the second half of 2012.
Now turning to our 2012 outlook.
I'll skip net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
On the cost side for the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD are forecasted to be down 0.5% to 1.5% versus the prior year.
This is 1 percentage point better than our March guidance.
Our operating companies identified opportunities in a number of areas to further reduce costs.
Certain expenses relating to the Costa Concordia incident were less than we had forecasted and the litigation settlement I previously mentioned also contributed to this improvement.
On a final note I wanted to share with you our current rules of thumb about the impact that fuel prices and currency can have on our results.
To start with a 10% change in the current fuel price excluding the impact of fuel derivatives represents $0.26 per share for the full year.
For the remaining half of 2012 it represents $0.13 per share.
As we all know the price of a barrel of oil has moved substantially in recent days.
Just to be clear the price of Brent was $93 a barrel the other day when we locked off our forecast.
The second rule of thumb relates to our current fuel derivative portfolio where a 10% reduction in the price of Brent for the remaining half of 2012 would result in an additional $0.04 of realized losses on fuel derivatives that would offset the $0.13 per share favorable impact from the reduced price of fuel.
With respect to FX movement a 10% change in all relevant currencies relating to the U.S.
dollar for the remaining half of 2012 would impact our P&amp;L by $0.11 per share.
At this point I will turn the call over to Howard.
Thank you David.
Before my formal comments let me just mention that the Miami HEAT winning an NBA championship last night is a defining moment.
It's broader than just basketball.
It really is a defining moment for the community.
It brings the community together so there's quite a bit of an excitement down here.
Most of us have lost sleep Micky more than anybody else.
But it's -- we'd like everybody to offer congratulations to the HEAT Organization to Micky Arison and of course to LeBron James who was absolutely spectacular.
We were all involved and we all either watched it on TV or at the arena and so it was a great evening and a great week for us.
Now to my formal commentary.
As we indicated in the press release during the second quarter we experienced a significant improvement in booking volumes for all of our brands in North America and EAA.
Over the last 7 weeks booking volumes this excludes Costa have run 8% ahead on a year-over-year basis.
The booking momentum percentages are approximately the same for both North America and EAA brands the percentage improvements that I'm talking about.
For Costa the booking momentum for the 7-week period has even been more encouraging running approximately 25% ahead year-on-year.
Loss of booking momentum beginning this past January and continuing through the end of March resulted in our falling further behind in our year-over-year occupancies across all of North America and EAA brands.
Toward the end of March marketing programs were restarted which included significant price initiatives to stimulate consumer demand and we began to see a strong rebound in bookings beginning in early April.
I think it's fair to say that the revenue yield impact from the pricing initiatives taken during this period was slightly greater than we had originally anticipated.
Perhaps to some degree this may have been attributable to the further softening in consumer demand which was experienced this spring particularly in the North American market.
Also as we mentioned in our prior earnings call the significantly higher air cost for North American passengers traveling to Europe caused bookings for these itineraries [ph] to slow and resulted in our having to take further price reductions for these programs.
During this past spring North American brands experienced slightly lower pricing than we originally forecasted.
North American brand European itineraries experienced the largest declines in pricing not just because of the slowing North American market but also because of the challenges in locally sourcing business from the softer European markets for these sailings.
As a consequence for the remainder of 2012 we have modestly reduced our revenue yield outlook for North American brands for the second half of the year.
And for the full year North American brand revenue yields are now forecasted to be flat on a year-over-year basis.
Revenue yields for our European brands excluding Costa are also forecasted to be slightly lower than previously anticipated primarily due to the significant softening in the Spanish market.
Ibero our Spanish cruise line has suffered a significant decline in revenue yields.
Fortunately there were just 3 ships operating in the brand so the impact of the struggling Spanish economy on our financial results has not been significant.
The good news in Europe is that bookings and pricing for the U.K.
and German brands have held up reasonably well during this past spring.
Please keep in mind that all of my comments on revenue yields are in constant dollars.
Now turning to Costa itself for the Costa brand.
The picture has improved.
Costa's booking volumes stimulated by significant pricing initiatives as part of their remarketing campaign introduced in April have shown considerable strength.
And this has been in all of their major markets: Italy France and Germany.
For the last 15 weeks volumes were 13% higher for Costa.
And the last 7 weeks as previously mentioned Costa's booking volumes were running 25% higher year-over-year.
Costa suffered significant loss in booking volumes beginning in mid-January which created a huge gap in their occupancies for the remainder of 2012.
Costa's revised marketing strategy has been focused on catching up on bookings lost during this earlier part of the year.
So it's not surprising that pricing has been deeply discounted.
We do expect that when the year-over-year occupancy levels begin to normalize Costa's cruise pricings for -- prices for 2013 should start to firm up.
Costa's revenue yields for 2012 are forecasted to be down in the mid-teens levels on a year-over-year basis and we expect Costa's operating loss to be in the range of $100 million.
While I'm on the subject of Costa let me just make a -- take a minute to comment on some recent management changes at Costa.
As we indicated in a press release earlier this spring we have made some new senior management appointments in our Costa Cruise group which is comprised of Costa AIDA and Ibero Cruises.
For some time now there was a plan in place for Pier Foschi the CEO of the Costa group to step back from the day-to-day running of the Costa group after he reached the age of 65.
Pier reached 65 in late 2011 and there was a succession plan in place for Michael Thamm the CEO of AIDA Cruises to replace Pier.
So beginning this July Pier will step back from day-to-day responsibilities but will continue to serve as Chairman of the Costa board and a Managing Director of the Costa group with responsibilities for government relations and strategic business initiatives.
Pier will also stay on the board of Carnival Corporation.
Michael Thamm will become Chief Executive of the Costa group and a member of the Costa board and relocate to Genoa Italy which he's in the process of doing right now.
Gianni Onorato will continue as the President of Costa.
Michael Ungerer who was Michael Thamm's #2 executive at AIDA will take over as President of AIDA Cruises.
Alfredo Serrano will continue as President of Ibero Cruises in Spain.
Gianni Michael and Alfredo will report to Michael Thamm.
We're very pleased with the seamless management transition in our Europe cruise business and wish these executives continued success in the future.
Now turning to full year the guidance for 2012.
We have increased our non-GAAP earnings midpoint range guidance to $1.85 per share for the year a $0.30 increase over our previous guidance.
In broad terms the $0.30 is comprised of a $0.40 improvement from lower fuel prices offset by $0.07 of fuel derivatives cost and $0.03 for currency.
The approximate $0.08 of forecasted lower revenue yields from the previous guidance is offset by about $0.08 of lower unit costs.
Based on our 2012 earnings guidance forecasted operating cash flow is expected to be in the range of $3.2 billion.
Net CapEx for the year is estimated at $1.9 billion.
So after the dividend that will leave us with approximately $500 million of free cash flow.
2013 our CapEx is currently estimated at $1.8 billion.
So with operating cash flow expected to improve in 2013 there should be further increases in free cash flow come 2013.
Now turning to some of the color on the next 3 quarters.
For the third quarter capacity is expected to increase 2.9%.
3.4% in North America markets and 1.6% in EAA.
At the current time on a fleetwide basis third quarter pricing and occupancy is lower than a year ago.
Keep in mind my comments on the third and fourth quarter exclude Costa unless I indicate otherwise.
North American brand capacity in the third quarter is 38% in the Caribbean slightly up from a year ago; 24% in Alaska slightly higher than a year ago; and 25% in Europe which is about the same as last year.
North American brand pricing is lower than a year ago at slightly lower occupancies.
Pricing for Caribbean itineraries is in line with a year ago with pricing for both Alaska and European cruises lower versus last year.
Occupancies for Caribbean and Alaska cruises are slightly lower versus last year and occupancies for Euro cruises are lower than [indiscernible].
EAA brand capacity in the third quarter is 85% in European itineraries up from 82% prior year.
EAA brand pricing this excludes Costa again for European and all other itineraries is slightly lower than a year ago on slightly lower occupancies.
U.K.
brands pricing is higher than a year ago and German pricing is slightly lower.
For Ibero our Spanish brand pricing is significantly lower than a year ago due to the significant softening of the Spanish economy which I mentioned earlier.
And also as expected Costa pricing in the third quarter was significantly lower than a year ago.
Third quarter guidance as we indicated in the press release is expected to be in the range of $1.42 to $1.46 per share versus $1.69 last year.
Revenue yields are expected to be 3% to 4% lower versus last year and that excludes Costa.
And net cruise cost excluding fuel is expected to be slightly lower than last year.
Changes in currency net of lower fuel prices and derivatives is expected to have a $0.03 -- a $0.03 negative effect on Q3's earnings.
Now turning to the fourth quarter.
Fleetwide capacity is expected to be 3% to 4% higher than last year.
3.9% of that is for North American brands 2.1% for EAA.
Fleetwide pricing excluding Costa is slightly lower than a year ago on lower occupancies.
North American brands are 43% in the Caribbean slightly higher than a year ago; 13% in Europe about the same as last year.
The balance is in various other itineraries.
North American brand pricing is slightly lower than last year at lower occupancies.
Caribbean pricing is higher than a year ago at flat occupancies.
Europe pricing is lower versus last year at lower occupancies and pricing for all other itineraries taken together is slightly higher than a year ago on lower occupancies.
EAA pricing in the fourth quarter and this excludes Costa is higher versus a year ago at lower occupancies.
Pricing for Europe cruises which represents 61% of EAA itineraries are slightly higher on lower occupancies.
For all other itineraries taken together pricing is also higher on lower occupancies.
Costa's pricing and occupancies are lower than a year ago.
Although pricing for Europe brands excluding Costa is higher at the present time because there are more cabins to fill versus last year we expect pricing for EAA brands to decline as the quarter closes.
On a fleetwide basis similar to the third quarter we're forecasting EAA revenue yields excluding Costa to be lower in the fourth quarter.
Now turning to the first quarter of 2013.
My comments now include Costa's data for both years.
Fleetwide capacity for the first quarter of 2013 is expected to be higher by 4%; 3.4% in North America 4.9% in EAA.
Fleetwide occupancies at the present time are lower than a year ago with pricing at the present time slightly lower versus last year.
Booking data for the first quarter of 2013 is in its early stages of development so I wouldn't read too much into the data at this time.
For North American brands taken together occupancies are flat year-over-year with overall pricing currently lower.
However pricing is higher for most of the North American brands but lower in total partly due to itinerary changes and the mix of the 4 brands' pricing.
I should mention that revenue yield comparisons for the first quarter of 2013 versus first quarter 2012 will be more challenging given our stronger first quarter North American yield performance this past quarter in -- for the past first quarter in 2012.
On a fleetwide basis EAA brand occupancies are behind last year with higher pricing.
Although still early pricing on Costa's bookings for Q1 is also higher on a year-over-year basis at lower occupancies.
But as I mentioned earlier you shouldn't read too much into the information for the first quarter of 2013 as there's still a long way to go before the first quarter closes.
I should mention that a -- certainly a positive development for 2013 is our expectations at least currently that lower fuel prices should provide a boost to earnings.
Using our current fuel price of $620 per metric ton we are currently estimating that lower fuel prices should benefit first half 2013 earnings per share by approximately $0.23.
So that's a little bit of hopefully a silver lining for going into 2013.
Having said all that Jennifer I'm going to turn it back to you and we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Steven Kent from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk about -- when I'm looking at the way you're describing the balance of 2012 it sounds like the third quarter is going to be very weak probably a little bit weaker than I would've expected or our team would've expected.
But then the fourth quarter using again your guidance would suggest a very very strong rebound in the fourth quarter to get to your full year numbers.
Maybe I'm calculating that wrong David but I just want to make sure we're going that way.
And if that's the case what gives you the confidence on the fourth quarter that things are going to improve that dramatically from the second and third quarter? Steve this is Howard.
Actually based on our current forecasting we are estimating that Q3 and Q4 yields will be down in the same relative range of 3% to 4%.
I said 3% to 4% down in Q3.
My guess is it will be in that range in Q4 as well.
So I'm not quite sure how you did your calculation but that's the way our numbers work.
And that's excluding Costa in both quarters what Howard just mentioned.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes but I mean if you -- for the third quarter you're negative 6 to 7 for the whole company right? For constant dollar? And then in the -- for the full year you're negative 3 to 4.
So something has to happen pretty dramatically...
For the first quarter it was up.
The first quarter was up.
The first quarter -- yes yields were up close to 3% I think on a constant dollar basis.
What I suggest is go -- I think Beth can take you through it but I think that's just the way the numbers work right now.
But Q3 and Q4 basically look like they're going to be in line.
There's always more -- the further out you go right now it's always more difficult to predict.
But I think Q3 is -- they're not -- while we're behind there's still not that much inventory left to sell so...
But it sounds like the assumption is wrong.
So maybe after the call you can follow through with Beth and see where this -- yes.
Yes.
The fourth quarter is -- I mean 2.9% up on constant dollars in the first quarter 1.4% down in the second.
In the back half.
It's in about [ph] the same range that we guided to in the third.
Yes.
And we're still in the same range -- we're still in the same range that we were in March 5.
And we're going -- and by the way these are only -- they're only modest changes yield from -- in North America and Europe from previous -- I think it's important to put in context that when the incident occurred it was the 2nd week of January which is really the peak of the beginning of wave season.
And when we reported it was March 5 only a few weeks into that.
So we estimated how deep the hole was and how much we'd have to incentivize to get that hole filled and we missed by what appears to be a rounding error at this stage.
Research Division</strong> And on the close-in bookings it sounds like you had to incentivize more as you got through Q2.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about the...
Q2 held up pretty well.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry Q2 was better but you're incentivizing more going to Q3.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> So can you just talk about what kind of programs you're doing...
I think it's pretty well understood that Europe has been challenging this year.
I think everybody understood that particularly for the North American brands and that continues to be the case although -- we're well into it now and it's pretty much full.
So we pretty much know where we are.
Our next question is from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- I was actually going to yell that you should wake up but it sounds like you're pretty awake even though you gave us that disclaimer.
The only thing is that I have -- I've got Queen like running in through my brain constantly.
Research Division</strong> So I think -- just to touch upon how you just answered the last question if I remember correctly normally you're about 85% to 95% booked in the quarter that you're in.
And then the next quarter out you're about 55% to 75%.
So just in terms of trying to think about your confidence in the guidance that you've provided are you within those ranges? We are.
We are towards the lower end of the ranges which I think -- the comments that we're behind the prior year.
But still...
But within the ranges.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So within the ranges at the lower end for both the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
Correct.
Correct.
And the third quarter -- there's not that much left to sell.
Even though we're behind maybe by a point or 2 there's not that much left to sell in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then obviously -- the fourth quarter's range is wider and that kind of gets to my next question because what we've been hearing is from the -- all cruise lines not just you your competitors you've been holding price for as long as you can and then discounting kind of lower -- the closer you get to the cruise.
So when we think about that when we think about the fourth quarter kind of being usually -- historically a more difficult quarter and in light of the guidance that you gave I mean how confident are you in that? I'm confident in the guidance we gave right now.
To be honest with you I think we're going to -- the numbers aren't going to change dramatically I think for the second half of the year.
I mean we always know [ph].
Obviously we only give guidance that we're confident in.
But we never know -- you never know we never know about hurricanes.
We never know about the election season.
I mean there's a lot of things that can happen between now and then.
But based on everything we know today we're very confident.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it fair to assume that in your guidance you kind of take into consideration these programs that you might be implementing to stimulate demand? Oh they've already been implemented.
They've been implemented and our volumes are up substantially as we said in the press release.
So they've been implemented and they're working.
And they're working very significantly obviously at Costa and well in the other brands as well.
Our next question is from the line of Robin Farley from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Actually I don't have a question about the yield guidance.
It basically sounds like it's kind of just narrowed I guess in the same range.
It's narrowed within it.
I did have a question on your free cash flow.
You talked about next year having more free cash flow and less CapEx.
Can you give us some color on your thoughts about share repurchase? Because I think you have $350 million authorization still outstanding and -- just some thoughts on that? Yes we did resume the share repurchase during the last quarter but we only wound up purchasing about 150 000 shares.
Our share repurchase program is designed to be opportunistic and we are being patient given the market volatility.
And at the moment it's actually $330 million that remains on the program.
Research Division</strong> Okay so -- but any sort of thoughts about -- just strategically whether you feel like -- looking ahead free cash flow will be greater next year versus this year but are you not comfortable sort of spending that in advance of getting it? Or I guess just trying to think about what your expectations are over the next 12 months understanding that day to day is opportunistic.
I don't think we're comfortable preempting the board.
That's a board decision and I think our position is basically what it has historically been.
We're going to return free cash flow to shareholders in a combination of ways: dividends and stock buyback depending on what the board decides.
And our free cash flow this year given our new guidance we would expect it to be in the range of $300 million to $400 million using the midpoint of the guidance.
And I think we explained -- I'm not sure if it was on the prior call but we suspended the repurchasing for a while for -- but the reasons...
Yes to be sensitive...
Sensitive to the issues regarding the incident.
But as David said we're now back and prepared to continue.
Our next question is from the line of Rick Lyall from John W.
Bristol.
Inc.</strong> Promotional activity in North America and Europe it's not reflected in the ticket yield.
Can you talk about both the depth and the impact of those promotions? And I've got a follow-up.
The impact is what it is.
It's what we anticipated back in March.
It's just -- like I said a rounding error because it's just a little bit more extensive than we thought.
But overall it's pretty much what we thought after missing such a significant part of wave season.
So I'm not sure I understand what you mean by the depth in your question.
But...
Inc.</strong> If you've had to offer more free flights more onboard credits et cetera than you thought back then.
Yes.
Correct.
Yes.
What I said is we had to do more promotions especially for the European programs or where there was other programs where there was a major air component.
The range we had was 2 to 4 and now it's 3 to 4.
So again it's a fraction of a point that we're talking about.
So yes we gave -- we did do a little bit more than we had anticipated in March.
But again in March we're only a few weeks into the situation.
So I think we did a pretty good job of guesstimating what would need to be done to fill that hole.
But we didn't get it 100% right but we still got it within the range.
So...
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then I've got a question about the fuel hedging.
So when I look at the schedule in the release out through '14 to '15 you're kind of holding in the 70 to 80 floor range and you're keeping the upper range 125 130.
How do you think about migrating the band? Are you going to march the band down? Or are you going to kind of consistently stay in the 80 to 125 130 range? It depends what the band is at the time that we meet.
I mean we meet on a regular basis and discuss this.
Again we look at this -- or I look at this anyway as insurance.
It was at the time cheap insurance.
It's now become a little bit more expensive insurance.
But that's what it is.
It's insurance and we keep looking at -- we meet on this on a regular basis and if opportunistically we can get lower bands we obviously would take advantage of that at the time.
Our next question is from the line of Steven Wieczynski from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One of the brands you guys haven't talked about is AIDA and I know that was a brand that had been -- seen some pressure from the Costa event.
So could you just update us on what you're seeing there? Yes.
I mean AIDA's -- there was that period I think subsequent to mid-January where business was quite soft.
But their business has come back quite nicely.
And as I mentioned their yields are slightly down.
I'm not -- what I think -- I don't think they're dramatically different than when we -- how we originally budgeted the year for AIDA.
So they're holding quite nicely and they picked up a lot of booking momentum.
It took a while to come back but it's a very very powerful brand in the German-speaking markets and it's doing quite well.
It just -- it seems to be -- has normalized quite nicely.
They had a naming ceremony in Hamburg for their new ship and to give you a sense of the power -- the viewership on the river were -- was 1.4 million people.
Actually more people showed up to see the naming ceremony of that ship than the Diamond Jubilee [indiscernible] a pretty powerful brand.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I guess will be a little bit more for David on the expense side.
I mean the expense control seems to be -- you guys seem to be doing a phenomenal job there.
I guess in the other expense category I mean that was down significantly even if you exclude I guess the $34 million there from the litigation and the insurance proceeds.
So what was being pushed out of that line item? You also have some cost related to the Costa Concordia incident -- oh you're talking about the second quarter...
[indiscernible].
Yes the second quarter the 494 versus the 556? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes I'll have to get -- I don't have the detail with me here.
I'll have to -- we'll get back to you on that.
We'll take a look.
I don't [indiscernible].
Our next question is from the line of Assia Georgieva from Infiniti Research.
I had a couple of quick questions.
First of all Costa's second quarter occupancy was probably up significantly after the end of March pricing program.
How did it compare relative to your expectations? Could you give us -- let's say if it was a 10% change in occupancy or higher? Relative to which expectations? Your March 5 expectation.
The expectation changes every week.
You're talking about how we [indiscernible] the guidance of March? In March we really were unsure whether we could move occupancy at all.
And we discussed that a lot that we were going to do continuous surveys to see whether -- if we put stimulus in the market if it would work.
We didn't want to put pricing stimulus just to put it in there without having the response.
And what we found is relatively quickly that with pricing stimulus we could generate significant demand because of the strength of the brand in its key markets.
And so the occupancy levels versus where we thought we were in March are significantly higher but the pricing offset virtually all of that.
But we're far more pleased with this kind of result than what we were talking about in March because it is accelerating in my mind and I think the mind of management the comeback of the brand to have full ships or relatively close to full ships with happy passengers coming back enjoying the brand and saying what a wonderful time they had.
It generates a whole different ambience onboard creates onboard revenue.
There's lots and lots of positive elements of having higher occupancies than we had anticipated.
So compared to March the occupancies are significantly better.
The response is significantly better to the incentives that were put in place than we thought in March.
And still you expect the loss to be in the $100 million range which was the original expectation.
So it's pretty much a trade-off between price and occupancy at this point? Correct correct.
Yes.
Okay okay.
My second question.
In the past it seems that onboard spend has been almost a leading indicator to higher ticket pricing.
Do you think we may be seeing some of that especially on the onboard part? Well we are seeing some increases in onboard.
We were very pleased.
In fact we took the guidance up almost 1 point on onboard from March to the June guidance.
So the trend is very favorable and I hope it is a leading indicator.
It's too early to say.
But I don't know that we've ever necessarily seen it that way.
It certainly indicates that consumer spend is up but there are a lot of elements to that 1% improvement.
I mean I do think that all of our brands have put a lot greater emphasis on being creative on ways whether it's Fun Ship 2.0 or other programs out there that will generate more onboard revenue.
So it's really hard to say whether -- how much of it is -- if you talk to the marketing the onboard marketing guys they'll tell you it's all them.
So it's hard to tell how much is that and how much is just consumers willing to spend more.
Our next question is from Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you could -- we could just stay on the onboard topic here it sounded like again from your preamble comments that that was -- remains skewed to the North American brands.
But also Micky you alluded to in part of your answer there that you're seeing that nice recovery in Costa.
Just a little bit more color I would guess on the rest of the European brands as it relates to onboard? Yes well the onboard is actually -- I said it was flat on the European brands despite the lower occupancy.
So you're actually seeing some additional spending on a per diem basis.
So the onboard spend per person is going up.
It was just we had a couple of points less occupancy on the brand.
So flat on a yield basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just any color commentary.
We've touched on North America.
We've touched on Europe.
But given a little bit of weakening in the Australian economy a little bit and then just overall related to Asia what are you seeing out of Asia Australia collectively? I think they're really very different markets.
I think in Australia we're seeing -- we are being challenged.
There's a lot more capacity coming into the Australian market including our own capacity.
So yields are -- on a year-over-year basis pricing has been down.
But it's still a very very profitable market for us and our pricing seems to be -- we're able to get a whole lot of better [ph] pricing with our brands in Australia than we see our competitors getting right now.
So we're very pleased with Australia.
And = it's likely that we may be through the worst part of it in terms of the additional capacity.
Next year Carnival brings a ship down to Australia and it's performing quite nicely right now.
So we're very pleased with Australia.
In Asia it's a pretty positive situation.
We moved the larger ship into the China market the Costa Victoria and it's doing quite well.
And we expected that we would be breakeven this year in Asia or maybe make a little bit of positive cash flow and that looks like it's going to be the case so far.
So bookings -- pricing in Asia or in Southeast Asia or in China is quite good right now.
And we're adding another 2 000-passenger ship in Costa Atlantica.
Yes.
As a result of that.
Mickey's right on.
Next -- beginning next spring we're bringing a second Costa ship to Asia the Costa Atlantica.
The situation is really developing nicely.
And we're entering the Japanese market with Princess.
So we're aggressively starting to size up in Asia and we're very very very optimistic that we're starting to see that opportunity come to fruition.
LLC Research Division</strong> And gentlemen if I may if you could just round out that whole discussion then with color a little color on South America? And Micky I'll offer my congratulations too.
Well South America business for us is mostly -- mostly begins this coming winter but it's shaping up nicely.
As I mentioned Costa's pricing at this point for Q1 is up year-over-year.
A large -- a good part of their itinerary is -- they have 4 ships in South America this winter and so those ships are doing nicely.
Ibero to be honest with you I don't -- I'll get back and I -- I don't know the Ibero pricing in South America for this winter yet.
It’s still early.
Still early because South America season is basically mid-December to mid-March so it's a very short season.
It’s still quite early.
But early indications are positive.
Our next question is from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go through the yield guidance for the rest of the year.
I guess different than Steve I was a little surprised that there wasn't going to be an improvement perhaps in the fourth quarter sequentially on yields.
And I know it's a less predictable quarter but I would've thought with the timing of the Concordia incident kind of the booking curves there impacting the summer as well as the preponderance of ships in the Mediterranean in the summer that maybe you’d get some release as you move more towards the Caribbean and so on as we moved into the fall.
If you could help us think about if you're seeing just general signs of more economic weakness that may be exacerbating some of the other ancillary effects on the business.
Sharon the way the demand profiles work is your Q3 your summer quarter is your quarter of your strongest demand in your business.
And so when you get into Q4 it's a little bit more of a struggle in terms of demand.
Ships are coming back from Europe or coming through -- going back from Alaska.
So it's always -- fourth quarter is always more of a challenge in terms of demand stimulation and all we're saying right now is that Q4 will be like Q3 in terms of yields.
In terms of the capacity mix it's not as different as you would think.
The Caribbean is about 24% of our exposure in the third quarter as opposed to 28% in the fourth.
And the Med is actually 25% in the third quarter going up to 29% in the fourth.
So we do have a heavy Med exposure in the fourth quarter.
Europe the northern part of Europe is a little less.
25% going down to 7%.
And that includes Costa's...
That’s all-in [ph].
What you have to remember is our fourth quarter includes September.
September through October is still very heavy Med period but you've lost the Baltic which is your highest-yielding European business because it's the end of the season and those ships move back into the Mediterranean.
So your capacity in the Mediterranean for half the fourth quarter is actually higher as Beth pointed out.
And getting back to Steve's question on other ship operating expenses the 2 reasons for the decline year-over-year in the second quarter one was dry dock.
We had significantly less dry-dock days in the second quarter this year than the prior year.
One of the things we mentioned was in the first quarter call we had significantly more dry-dock days in the first quarter of 2012 than '11.
So that was just a seasonality on dry dock.
And the other thing was currency.
The euro was 1.43 last year in the second quarter on average.
And this year it was 1.31.
So currency has driven the number down as well.
Our next question is from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First question is just on European source business and maybe getting a little bit of color by geography.
I know you mentioned Spain was soft U.K.
and Germany held up.
So I'm just wondering did U.K.
and Germany actually get incrementally better over the last 7 weeks? And then did any other major market stand out as maybe bucking the trend one way or the other? The U.K.
wasn't really impacted as much as anywhere else.
I mean the U.K.
held up pretty well throughout the year throughout the process.
Germany had to have bounced back.
Germany bounced back.
Yes.
It had to have bounced back.
We're hesitant on Italy and France only because Costa is our primary brand in those markets.
Obviously the volumes now are very very strong at significantly lower prices.
So the one -- the areas that we're very clear on is that Spain is terrible U.K.
has been fine and Germany has bounced back and I think is fine.
Research Division</strong> And second question just on the new versus the seasoned cruiser any change in trend there over the last month or two? Yes.
I think we said at the time of the incident that it's likely that first-time cruisers would be more impacted than experienced cruisers as experienced cruisers understand both the value and the safety of the product while first-timers may not.
At the time of our March call we said that while it's kind of intuitive that that may happen we have no empirical evidence that it did happen.
I can say now that we have empirical evidence that it did happen and that first-time cruisers did decline and were impacted.
Our surveys clearly show that they were impacted by the events.
And hopefully the further we get away from those events the more likely it will -- they will bounce back.
We also saw after the global financial crisis and we reduced prices we also saw an uptick in repeat passengers as well at that time.
As Micky said the people saw the value much quicker and jumped on the bandwagon and started booking.
Right.
But we see it in actual -- we now see it in actual bookings and we now see it in actual surveys that demand from first-time cruisers has declined since the incident.
We're hopeful as we get further along that that will start to rebound.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So maybe next year a little bit easier comparisons from the Concordia when you lap that right? Hopefully.
Our next question is from the line of Jamie Katz from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I have a question actually on the booking curve.
And can you guys talk a little bit about how many people are booking closer in versus further out? And has that shortened even more this summer than you guys had anticipated? And then the second question is well Costa has done obviously very well over the last few weeks.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on the pricing that you've sacrificed to get there? Well as we've said we basically gave up pricing for occupancy and it was awash.
So on the booking curve it's a function -- it's purely a function of the hole that was created during wave and the need to fill that hole which meant that there was a requirement by the brands for closer-in business.
So I don't know if that is a booking curve issue or an issue that you had this hole that was created starting in the 2nd week in January.
I mean -- so it's a very unique set of circumstances that -- we really haven't experienced before anything quite like it.
And I don't see any reason why over time and I mean relatively short time as we catch up on occupancy and we're getting there that the booking curve won't go back to where it was traditionally.
But we needed to be more close in because we have some space to sell.
I think we're encouraged by the fact that we're still within historical ranges despite all the -- the event and the incidences that occurred.
Good point.
And as to the Costa what they gave up on pricing they're selling to 20% to 30% below the prior year in order to get the volumes and the occupancy.
I think we indicated for the full year we'd be down in the mid-teens right? On a yield basis? Yes.
Correct.
Our next question is from the line of Lena Thakkar from HSBC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
Firstly on Costa.
Hypothetically speaking if you were to get back yields and occupancy rates in line with pre the incident where would that negative $100 million profit go to in 2013 do you think bearing in mind all the capacity changes? And then the second -- sure go ahead.
Let me -- before you ask the second question.
I think there's an underlying assumption that we'd get it all back in 1 year which I don't think is to be honest with you is realistic.
What I would say is this: that we forecasted that the swing in Costa's earnings for this year is at about $500 million dollars.
And about $100 million of that was the loss of the ship itself which is not coming back.
Right.
Right.
It's not coming back.
So I wouldn't want to get into a hypothetical about if you get back all your revenue yield losses in 2013 what it would look like.
I think that that could be -- I don't want to mislead anybody because I don't think that's going to happen.
It's going to take a couple of years for this to come back.
Yes.
And remember also we have taken both the Concordia and the Allegra out of Costa's and they sold the Marina.
So compared to where we were a year ago looking forward they are 3 ships -- they're down 3 ships.
So clearly their earnings can't be what it would have been had they had those 3 ships.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No and that's sort of what I was getting at I guess even if it did take 2 or 3 years where is the new base I guess.
Okay.
And then just on the second question slightly -- on a slightly different topic in terms of direct bookings.
I was just wondering where you are in terms of direct bookings versus third party across the fleet and where aspirations are in that department.
Yes.
Direct bookings in last year were 19% of our total business.
That has moved up year-over-year.
We don't have any specific aspirations.
I do expect the number will continue to creep up over time.
As people become more and more comfortable booking directly it's easier for them to just do the bookings.
It's such a natural occurrence almost.
With the passing of generations and the improvement of technology we would expect it to creep up.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any plans at all to reduce commission rates like you did in the U.K.
elsewhere? Well first of all the answer to that is no.
But I think it's important to understand that we don't believe we've effectively reduced commission rates from the standpoint of the travel agencies' community because there was so significant discounting and rebating going on that their in-pocket commission was far less than what they have now.
And so I think the clear indication based on what we've said about the U.K.
market and how it has held up through this whole period is that our team in the U.K.
made a very very good decision.
Travel agents in effect are getting overall better compensated because they are not rebating and pricing stability has been brought to the marketplace.
So I think it was an overall strong decision for the U.K.
but it was a unique issue in the U.K.
that doesn't really exist quite the same anywhere else.
So no there's no plans to reduce compensation.
It's still the North American and I should say Italy France Germany.
The travel agency distribution is still a very very critical part of our overall distribution strategy.
They've been supportive of us and we continue to be supportive of them.
Our next question is from the line of David Leibowitz from Horizon Kinetics.
Two quick questions.
One with the drop in the price of fuel do you still have surcharges in Europe? Yes there are currently surcharges on a couple of the European brands in Germany and the U.K.
yes.
Fuel supplements.
And secondly when the dividend was reinstituted the comment was we had a lot of catching up to do.
Obviously this year we couldn't do any catching up.
On a priority list and at least 2 members of the board are on the call right now the board would rather do catch up or buyback? I'm not quite sure what you mean by catch up.
Yes I don't think we use the word -- term catch up.
And...
I apologize for the wrong term.
Yes we generally use that on hamburgers.
Not in Brooklyn we don’t.
Brooklyn we put the mustard on the hotdog.
All I can say is that -- we said that the free cash flow will be distributed to shareholders.
Clearly we have board members who prefer dividends.
Remember we have a mixture of board members who are more U.K.-centric and we have board members who are more U.S.-centric.
So we have both views.
We have views that are aggressive toward buyback and we have views that are aggressive toward dividend and we try to find a happy balance.
And we will continue to try to do that.
Our next question is from the line of Kevin Milota from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Was hoping you could give us a sense for the revitalized marketing effort and how big of a driver that was behind what you've seen over the last 7 weeks in terms of the increased bookings that you've seen.
And also secondly on the Costa brand strategy from the first quarter it sounded like you were trying to hold price at the mercy of occupancy levels.
Just wondering how -- shortly thereafter the May -- or excuse me March 5 call you effectively flipped that strategy to take occupancy at the mercy of price.
I mean Kevin in terms of the marketing efforts I indicated that -- how we were booking over the last 7 weeks.
And the volumes are up significantly during this period.
So clearly the marketing -- I'm talking broadly now.
I'm not just talking about one particular brand.
So the marketing efforts have worked to recapture some of the lost business albeit it's been at lower prices than we would've liked.
But let me add that we haven't increased the marketing budgets of any of our brands beyond Costa.
Costa right now is pumping a lot of marketing dollars again not just to create volume but to rebuild the brand and so on.
So other than Costa all the others are working within what we would have anticipated as their normal marketing budgets at the beginning of the year.
Yes.
And on the Costa brand strategy I think you're right.
I think initially the thinking was based on advice they were getting from marketing consultants in Europe was that to -- and it was very early in the process that the strategy would be just to maintain price and that you -- regards to how you price the product would be difficult to start to generate a lot of bookings.
I think that changed over time as they got further and further away from the incident.
And the marketing people came back and said no no no let's -- after they did a lot of market tests and decided that let's go ahead and start to use price and see if we can stimulate the market and regenerate the bookings and that happened.
And I think we said that on the March 5 call.
We said that right now it appears from the surveys we've done from the marketing consultant information we're getting that price stimulus would not work because of the extent of the event but that we would continue to do weekly surveys to judge if that was moving in a different direction and at the point that we were comfortable based on those surveys that we can stimulate demand and we can get Costa back into the kind of occupancies it traditionally had that we would make that move.
And a few weeks later -- I mean they stayed out of the market completely for I don't know 8 weeks? Last week in March first week in April.
[indiscernible] the earnings.
From the second week of January to the last week in March they totally stayed out of the marketplace.
And beginning of April when we felt comfortable that the market perception were clearly that Costa brand is a great vacation value one that is highly thought of in their key markets and those numbers stabilized to pre-incident level we went heavy and it worked.
And the advertising they were doing was price-driven.
They had a very simple message.
I think if I remember correctly it was like EUR 75 per person per day for May EUR 85 for June EUR 95 for July and that drove bookings.
Our next question is from the line of Jamie Rollo from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just one question please.
It's really a question on the comps on the yield comps in 2013.
You sort of referred to this.
But just thinking about it H1 this year your yields were up around 1%.
In the second half you're guiding to down about 7 including Costa and as you say Q4 showing no improvements over Q3.
So I'm just wondering whether your comment is really asking us to think about H1 yields next year to maybe re-base to sort of drop mid-single digits? Or are things recovering fast enough to sort of hold them flat next year? I think it's too early to say.
I think in Q1 I think our yields were up close to 3% on an overall basis for the first quarter of 2012.
So what I said is that comps would be more challenging.
And also as you roll out of these -- eventually as you roll out of these price incentives you're still booking business in Q1 that will probably have some impact of some of this lower pricing in Q1.
But so far if you look at the overall pricing picture although I think we're still behind on occupancies in Europe the pricing picture so far was positive in Europe including Costa.
So I think a lot depends on how quickly the bookings will come back and how quickly we get the volumes back to backfill the space that we lost.
And you also have to keep in mind despite where we are deployment-wise in Q3 and 4 Q1 deployment is totally different.
And so that has a huge impact on this as well.
I mean like we said we're very happy in the Med in Q4 -- Q3 and 4 but we're clearly not in Q1.
Our Med is what percentage? 5% in Q1.
Yes it goes from 28% in Q4 to 5% in Q1.
So that has a major impact too Jamie.
We had 50% in the Caribbean and then there's a big component in Brazil the Latin Americas.
Research Division</strong> So you're not guiding to any yields decline in Q1 at this stage then? We're not guiding anything.
We're not doing any guidance.
Yes I think it's too early for 2013 to do anything quite yet.
Our last question is from the line of Edward Stanford from Oriel Securities.
Research Division</strong> It's a quick question.
You've again demonstrated some good progress in adjusting your fuel consumption.
Is there much more than you can do there? That's been running for a number of years now.
I mean how do you see that going forward? We continue to work extremely hard on it.
We have a lot of R&amp;Ds going on a lot of investment going on and we'd anticipate this type of continued reduction in fuel consumption for the foreseeable future.
I'm showing that there are no further questions at this time.
All right that works out just fine Jennifer.
Okay.
Well thank you all for listening in.
And any follow-up questions Beth will be around to take care of that.
She enjoys that.
Thanks everybody.
All the best everybody.
Have a good weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and we ask that you please disconnect your line.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday September 25 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer with Carnival Corporation.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Andre and good morning everyone.
Let me just sort of comment that Micky Arison and Beth Roberts are in London at the moment so they are joining the call from London.
David Bernstein and I are here in Miami.
I'm going to turn it over to David and let him start with some of the color on the third quarter and talk a little bit about the costs going forward.
Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that as some of our remarks in this conference call will be forward-looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statements in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currency unless otherwise noted as this is the most useful measure of our business trends.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the third quarter was $1.53.
The third quarter came in $0.09 above the midpoint of our June guidance.
The improvement was driven by better-than-expected pricing on close-in bookings worth $0.07 and lower net cruise costs excluding fuel worth $0.05 both of which were partially offset by changes in fueling currency costing a combined $0.03.
Now let's look at our third quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased almost 3% and North American brands were up 3.4% while the Europe Australia and Asian brands or as we call them our EAA brands were up 2.1%.
Our total net revenue yields decreased 5% in the third quarter of which 3 percentage points were driven by Costa.
Excluding Costa total net revenue yields decreased only 2% driven by a 4% decline in net ticket revenue yield offset by a 5% increase in net onboard and other revenue yields.
With respect to the net ticket yields the North American brands were down 4.8% driven by declines in Europe and Alaska while the Caribbean yields held up very well during the quarter.
Excluding Costa our EAA brand net ticket yields were down only 1.8%.
For net onboards and other yield again excluding Costa the increase was 5%.
For net onboard yields alone the increase was over 3% on both sides of the Atlantic.
The rest of the increase was driven by other revenue yields which resulted from a small change in accounting for our Alaskan tour business.
On the cost side net cruise cost per available lower berth day excluding fuel were down 3% versus the prior year.
This decline in net cruise costs per ALBD was greater than we expected in our June guidance.
However part of the lower net cruise costs in the third quarter relate to the timing of expenses between the third and fourth quarter and not a reduction in expenses for the year.
As I said in the past it is very difficult to estimate the timing for many of our expenses by quarter and therefore the best measure of net cruise cost performance is on an annual basis.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel consumption our consumption per ALBD declined 5.7% this quarter thus continuing a multiple-year savings trend.
Fuel prices in the quarter were down almost 4% versus the prior year which saved us $0.03.
However this was partially offset by realized losses on fuel derivatives in June and July which cost us $0.02 per share.
Currency rates this quarter versus the prior year cost us $0.09 per share as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
In summary the third quarter non-GAAP EPS was down $0.16 versus $1.69 per share last year driven by the lower earnings at Costa.
Excluding Costa our non-GAAP net income would have been up slightly.
Excluded from our non-GAAP EPS but included in our GAAP EPS were unrealized gains on fuel derivatives of $136 million or $0.17 per share resulting from marking to market our portfolio of fuel derivative.
These gains almost completely offset the unrealized losses we recorded in the second quarter.
As a result at the end of the third quarter the mark-to-market balance sheet position on our fuel derivatives was an unrealized gain of $13 million.
As we first discussed on last December's call we believe it is more meaningful to evaluate our earnings performance by excluding the impact of unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives until the gains and losses are realized.
This appropriately lines up the economic impact of the fuel derivatives with the underlying fuel price risk that is intended to mitigate.
In June we entered into additional 0 cost collars for 2014 2015 and 2016.
We now have 0 cost collars in place that cover approximately 38% of 2013's consumption 29% of 2014's consumption 24% of 2015's consumption and 15% of 2016's consumption.
As I mentioned on the June call we are comfortable with the level of protection we have through the end of 2013 but we will look to opportunistically increase the other percentages over time.
Before turning to our 2012 outlook I wanted to update you on our stock repurchase program.
On the last call I indicated we had restarted the repurchase program.
Through the third quarter we repurchased 2 million shares for $67 million.
Currently there's $265 million remaining under the repurchase authorization.
Now turning to our 2012 outlook.
I will skip the net revenue yield outlook as Howard will discuss that shortly.
On the cost side the full-year net cruise cost excluding fuel per ALBD are forecasted to be down 1% versus the prior year which is consistent with our June cost guidance.
On a final note I wanted to give you a preliminary view of cost for 2013.
As you know we have had an excellent record of cost control.
In fact over the last 4 years from 2008 through 2012 despite inflation we have managed to reduce our net cruise cost excluding fuel on a unit basis by about 2.5%.
Looking forward our operating companies will continue to do an excellent job finding ways to reduce costs for 2013.
However there are a few unique factors in 2013 that will be difficult to totally overcome which will push our unit cost higher.
To begin with we are expecting that Costa will fill their ships in 2013 which will lead to higher food and other unit costs associated with this higher occupancy.
This will simply be a reversal of the occupancy-driven unit cost reduction in 2012.
In addition as I have previously indicated our insurance costs will be higher in 2013.
Furthermore we are anticipating charges relating to a closed multi-employer pension plan for certain British officers and crew.
The multi-employer pension plan accounting rules require us to expense our contributions to fund planned deficits when the invoices are received.
Finally our increasing emerging market deployment for Japan by Princess for China by Costa and for Australia by Carnival Cruise Lines will also increase our costs.
These unique factors alone will drive our unit costs up 1.5% to 2%.
Therefore I am expecting overall unit costs excluding fuel to be higher in 2013 compared to 2012.
Over the next few weeks we will be visiting each of our operating companies to review their 2013 annual plan.
We'll have a much clearer picture on costs for 2013 after those meetings and it will provide detailed guidance on the December call.
At this point I will turn the call over to Howard.
Thank you David.
And again good morning everyone.
I'm going to cover fourth quarter of 2012 and give you some highlights of how 2013 is shaping up at least for the first half of the year from a revenue yield standpoint.
As we indicated in the press release on a fleet-wide basis excluding Costa at the present time advance bookings over the next 3 quarters are behind last year at slightly lower prices.
However booking patterns have recently strengthened and the occupancy gap has closed considerably still not fully closed but it's closing.
My comments this morning will focus on booking and pricing patterns for the next 3 quarters through the first half of 2013.
Unless otherwise indicated my comments on 2013 bookings and pricing will be inclusive of Costa.
Not surprisingly 2 different pictures are emerging for our North America and EAA markets over the next 3 quarters.
For North American brands advanced bookings for the next 3 quarters are about at the same level as last year at slightly lower ticket prices.
I will focus my comments on bookings on first half of 2013 and provide separate color on fourth quarter of 2012 advanced bookings later in my comments.
First half of 2013 North American brand pricing is slightly lower than a year ago.
However pricing for the 2012 first half at this time was significantly higher over the prior years so pricing comparisons are a bit tougher.
What is encouraging for North American brands is that in the last 6 weeks bookings and pricing for the first half of 2013 are running higher year-over-year so during the last 6 weeks we are catching up on bookings at higher price points a very positive sign.
Turning to EAA.
As you might expect the picture for EAA brands on a combined basis is quite different.
At this time advance bookings for the next 3 quarters excluding Costa are at lower levels versus last year and at slightly lower local currency ticket pricing.
All my comments about EAA pricing are on a local currency basis.
I will also focus my comments on bookings for the first half of 2013 and provide separate color on the fourth quarter advance bookings for EAA later in my comments.
For the first half of 2013 the lower year-over-year EAA occupancies are more significant for the continental European brands Costa AIDA and Ibero which were more affected by the events of this past January.
However when we fully cycle through January of 2013 we expect to see occupancy comparisons improve.
Having said that we are forecasting that EAA pricing for the first half of 2013 will continue to experience a gradual decline as we build occupancies.
Of course EAA booking patterns are also feeling the effects of the sluggish European economies and we expect that to continue in 2013.
A very positive sign is that during the last 6 weeks EAA bookings have been running significantly higher for the fourth quarter of 2012.
So we are seeing strength in EAA bookings with bookings trending to closer end dates.
On a fleet-wide basis for the first half of 2013 we are forecasting lower revenue yields in the first quarter and higher yields in the second quarter.
We anticipated increase in second quarter yields results from an increase in ticket yields for both our North American and European brands against the easier comparisons to last year's second quarter.
As a reminder until we cycle through January of 2013 the revenue yield picture will be challenging.
I should also mention that extrapolating the current booking trends especially for the European brands is far more challenging this year given the very different booking pattern we are experiencing versus last year.
So take these forecasts as our best estimates for the revenue yield picture for the first half of 2013.
Let me make a few separate comments about Costa.
While our business planning for 2013 is still a work in progress we are expecting that Costa Cruises will swing back to solid profitability in 2013 after a very challenging 2012.
Based on consumer research the brand perception in each of Costa's major markets is gradually improving so we are greatly encouraged by the resiliency of the brand.
Beginning in the second quarter of 2013 we expect Costa's revenue yields to nicely increase year-over-year against easier comparisons for last year's second quarter.
We are very pleased with the progress that Costa has made and our expectation is that Costa's financial performance will continue to improve as we move into 2013.
In 2013 we have 2 ships scheduled for delivery the AIDA Stella or our AIDA brand in Germany will be delivered in March of 2013.
The very successful AIDA brand is one of our best performing cruise brands in the company.
And we congratulate Michael Thamm and Michael Ungerer for the great job they have done in building this very successful franchise in Germany.
In late May we take the Liberty of the Loyal Princess the first new ship for the Princess brand since the Ruby Princess was delivered in late 2008.
The new generation Royal Princess has 3 600-plus lower berths with a potential capacity of 4 100-plus passengers.
The ship has many innovative new features including a dramatic overwater sea walk private poolside cabanas and balconies on all of its outside state rooms.
Bookings for the Royal Princess which begins sailing next summer have been very strong.
Fleet-wide capacity for 2013 is expected to increase by 3.4% 4.1% in Q1 3.2% in the second quarter 3.8% in Q3 and 2.4% in the fourth quarter.
North American brands will be up 3.3% and Europe brands are up 2.8%.
The Europe brands growth is in the German market with the addition of the AIDA Stella.
Capacity for other brands in continental Europe and the U.K.
is actually down slightly in 2012.
Australia and Asia capacity is up 8.5% as we continue to drive capacity growth toward emerging cruise markets with the addition of the Costa Atlantica to Costa's Asian fleet in the spring of 2013.
And Princess' opening of a new beachhead in the Japanese market with the Sun Princess later in 2013.
Apart from AIDA which is our strongest performing brand in Europe we have slowed our capacity increases for our North American and European brands.
Of the 7 ships on our current order book 3 are for AIDA 2 for Princess one for Costa and one for P&amp;O.
The strategy adopted by the company several years ago was to limit capacity growth to 2 to 3 ships per year to our fleet with the addition of new ships to our brand being done on a more selective basis going forward.
As a result the Royal Princess delivered in 2013 will be the first ship added to the Princess fleet in 5 years and the new P&amp;O ship in the U.K.
to be delivered in 2015 is 5 years after P&amp;O's Azura was delivered in 2010.
The strategy is to build ships for those brands with stronger ROIs and which have been successful in taking on additional capacity in their markets without compromising pricing with the existing ships in their fleet.
Turning to earnings guidance for 2012.
Our guidance for the full year EPS is unchanged under the midpoint of $1.85 and a range of $1.83 to $1.87.
Stronger-than-expected revenue yields together with lower cost and expenses is expected to be offset by an increase in fuel costs in the fourth quarter which is higher than we previously forecasted.
Now let me turn to the fourth quarter.
Fleet-wide capacity in the fourth quarter is expected to be 3.2% higher than last year 3.9% for North America brands 1.3% for EAA brands.
Fleet-wide pricing and this excludes Costa is lower than a year ago on slightly lower occupancies.
There is very little inventory left to sell in the fourth quarter.
North American brands are 43% in the Caribbean slightly higher than a year ago 14% in Europe same as last year with the balance in a variety of other itineraries.
North American brand pricing is lower than last year with similar year-over-year occupancies.
Caribbean pricing is flat versus a year ago and Europe itinerary pricing is lower versus last year.
Pricing for all other itineraries taken together is slightly ahead of a year ago.
EAA pricing in the fourth quarter is lower versus last year at slightly lower occupancies.
This excludes Costa.
Pricing for Europe cruises which represents 61% of EAA itineraries is lower and for all other itineraries taken together pricing is flat.
Costa's occupancies across all itineraries have caught up with last year but at lower prices.
We do expect however that Costa's year-over-year revenue yield performance in the fourth quarter to improve from the third quarter.
Fourth quarter 2012 earnings guidance is forecasted to come in between $0.07 and $0.11 a share for a midpoint of $0.09 -- $0.19 per share swing from the $0.28 per share on the fourth quarter of 2011 is comprised of lower pricing of $0.22 a share and negative changes in fuel and currency costing $0.08 a share and that $0.30 a share is offset by lower cost than we previously forecasted to get to the $0.19 downswing.
Now turning to the first quarter of 2013 for the first and second quarter of 2013 my comments include Costa's data for both years.
Fleet-wide capacity for the fourth quarter of 2013 is expected to be higher by 4.1% 3.5% in North America and 5.1% in EAA.
At the present time fleet-wide occupancies are lower than a year ago with pricing slightly lower versus last year.
In the first quarter for North American brands are 65% in the Caribbean but same as last year 13.5% in Asia Pacific up about 2.5 points from last year and the balance is in various other itineraries.
North American brands taken together occupancies and pricing are slightly lower year-over-year.
As reported in our last call pricing is higher for all but one of the North American brands but slightly lower in total partly due to itinerary changes and mix for that one brand.
As previously mentioned revenue yield comparisons for first quarter 2013 versus first quarter 2012 will be tougher given our strong first quarter North American yield performance in 2012.
Caribbean pricing is slightly higher than a year ago Asia Pacific pricing is lower pricing for all other itineraries taken together is lower.
As to EAA brands in the first quarter EAA is 24% in Europe itineraries versus 19% in the prior year 18% in the Caribbean down from 22% in the prior year 24% in Asia Pacific versus 21% in the prior year and 18% in South America which is about the same as last year.
On a fleet-wide basis EAA brand occupancies are behind last year with slightly higher pricing excluding Costa and slightly lower pricing when Costa is included.
Although pricing and occupancy for Costa's bookings in Q1 are lower on a year-over-year basis the year-over-year price differences from the third and fourth quarters of 2012 are narrowing.
Caribbean and South America pricing is slightly higher than a year ago and Europe and Asia Pacific pricing is lower.
On a fleet-wide basis we are currently expecting that by the time the first quarter closes revenue yields will come in lower than the strong first quarter of 2012 primarily as the results of the lower EAA brand pricing.
Turning to the second quarter of 2013 fleet-wide capacity for the second quarter is up 3.2% 2.3% for North America 4.5% for EAA brands.
At the present time on a fleet-wide basis local currency pricing is slightly lower than a year ago with occupancies running behind last year.
Similar to the first quarter the second quarter comparisons are against the prior year which at this time had stronger pricing.
Because of the falloff in bookings beginning last January we expect second quarter occupancies and pricing to show gradual year-over-year improvement as we fully cycle through January of 2012 -- I'm sorry January 2013.
However I should also caution that it's still early in the booking cycle and you should not read too much into the second quarter booking picture at this time.
For North American brands there are 53% in the Caribbean versus 56% last year; 13% in Asia Pacific versus 10% last year; with the balance in various other itineraries.
For North American brands taken together occupancies and pricing are slightly lower Caribbean pricing is slightly higher than a year ago Asia Pacific pricing is lower than a year ago prices for all other brand and itineraries taken together are lower than a year ago.
EAA brands are 59% in Europe up from 53% last year with the balance in various other trades.
EAA brand pricing for Europe cruises is lower than last year and pricing for all other EAA brand itineraries taken together is flat versus a year ago at lower occupancies.
Although occupancies and pricing for the second quarter are lower than a year ago we do expect to see a catch-up when we fully cycle last January's incident.
And while it's still early in the second quarter booking cycle as I mentioned earlier because of easier comparisons we do expect to see an improvement in revenue yields beginning in the second quarter for both North America and EAA brands by the time the second quarter closes.
So that's how we see the first half of 2013 shaping up from a revenue standpoint as well as from a cost standpoint as David pointed out.
With that we will turn it back to you Andre for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question is Howard I wonder if you could just touch on for a moment the promotional environment.
We know it's been heavy throughout this year but as you're looking towards the first half of '13 just wondering if you could tell us what that looks like? Are you seeing a declining need to stimulate demand through promotions? Well Felicia it's a question that covers a number of different brands.
But broadly speaking I think it's fair to say that in order to keep demand going we have been and will continue to have a fairly heavy spend in promotions and sales.
That seems to be driving the business.
And if we do it smart and we do it selectively I think that's fine for us I think.
And that's been -- but that's been going on for quite some time.
It really hasn't changed it.
Now look that will vary by brand.
Some brands experiencing more demand right now other brands a little bit slack demand depending on the markets that they're in.
But they're pretty smart guys and as they see -- if they see any kind of revenue fall off or booking fall offs they're out there with their promotions in order to stimulate the market.
I can't answer the question any better than that.
Research Division</strong> No that's actually helpful and gets to the crux of it.
And then just in terms of visibility obviously you said second -- we all know when you look out that far but has your visibility improved at all -- I guess what I'm really asking is what is the booking curve look like? Is the nature of the business still very close in and again not so concerned about the rest of this year but as we look to early '13 is it still very close in or is that getting -- is the booking curve getting extended a little bit? For certain brands it's still pretty -- it's still close in.
It's -- you're starting to see some evidence of it pushing out more recently because of the recent increase in bookings over the last quarter but it's still closer in than it has been historically so we're starting -- and that's been the pattern.
It's more so the pattern in the European brands.
We're seeing it more in the European brands but we're also seeing a little bit of it but not quite as much in the American brands.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to clarify one thing you said Howard and then I have a question.
Just looking at kind of the incremental rather than the cumulative booking when you meant -- you made a comment about the last 6 weeks that the first half of 2013 was higher.
Was that in volume or in price or was that both? I don't know if I completely caught the specifics of that.
Yes let me go back and check but I think -- certainly it was in volume and I think it will depend on the market.
David what's...
Yes we did comment in the press release.
It was up 9% for the last 6 weeks excluding Costa and prices were in line with last year's level.
And over the same period for Costa we said the 9% increase is at lower prices.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at Costa and what's happened this year obviously it looks like your fleet or yield guidance didn't change that much for Costa right? And sort of the non-Costa brands that’s gotten a little better and Costa yields maybe still being down that 15% to 20% for the year.
Can you quantify how much of that you expect to be occupancy decline for the Costa brand this year versus price? Because just thinking about recovery in 2013 that the occupancy is easier to see that coming back without having to even think about raising prices just kind of thinking about that part of the recovery.
Yes I think and David looking up the occupancy the declines year-over-year but when we look at and when we go beyond into the second quarter and third quarters and fourth quarters a good piece -- I think we're looking for both price and occupancy increases.
Clearly we expect occupancies to get back to more normal levels for the Costa brand.
But I think we're also expecting increase in pricing because of the easier comparisons.
But a good chunk of what we lost was in 2012.
A good part of what we lost was occupancy because we stopped -- we lost all the bookings during wave season when it started for Costa and they didn't really get back into the market any significant until later on in the spring and then still not in a very significant way.
So it was a tough year for marketing for Costa.
It has been a struggle.
But we're starting to see the turnaround but we won't start to really see the numbers until the second quarter of 2013.
Howard the occupancy drop was 5% for the year but it was over 11% and almost 6% for the second and third quarters.
So there was very significant occupancy hits in the second and third quarters and third quarter obviously be most important.
Yes.
And as I mentioned in the fourth quarter we actually -- we're back with the same occupancy year-over-year as you can see that that's the biggest hit was in that second and third quarter.
Yes we're virtually flat in the fourth quarter with occupancy.
Our next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Quick follow-up question on Costa.
Of the $3 billion to $3.1 billion in EBITDA that Carnival will generate this year how much of a drag EBITDA drag was Costa? And then by the same token of the $3.7 billion $3.8 billion of EBITDA last year how much did Costa contribute? Why don't we focus on operating earnings Harry.
Will that work? Research Division</strong> All right that's fine.
Yes that's fine.
Yes Harry we had said back I think it was on the March call that we had expected a decline in about 500 million [indiscernible] to lose...
Research Division</strong> Can you start again please? I'm sorry David.
We were interrupted.
No that's okay.
Back on the March call we had indicated that we're reducing our earnings as a result of Costa by about $500 million and that Costa would lose about $100 million this year.
So that was what we gave back in March.
It turned out to be a little bit better than that but not significantly different.
The swing was $500 million negative.
The swing was $500 million negative from the December guidance but the absolute was negative $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I had relates to just changes in deployment.
If you move a ship from the European or Mediterranean market to Asia should that generate higher or lower pricing at this point? And what impact does that have on your EBITDA? Well let me just mention to you that the Costa ship in Asia this year which is a single ship of -- the first time we've had a 2 000-passenger vessel had enjoyed -- actually because it was very positive revenues and actually stronger revenues than we had for the rest of the Costa brand but of course the Costa brand was affected by the events from last January.
We're also -- and the reason for moving a second ship to Asia is Costa was the first company to really to start deployments in Asia for the Asian market in China.
And for many many years we made an investment in terms of taking up some losses.
We had first a smaller ship then 2 smaller ships and then we moved to the Costa Victoria which is a larger ship.
We had the Classica there for a while as well.
So now it's going to show a small profit on the one ship in Asia and that's -- at good prices so we're going to move a second ship over.
It's not just China it's all the other Asian markets as well for Costa so we expect it to be profitable.
Research Division</strong> And what sort of pricing -- incremental pricing are you -- do you expect to see over the course of the next 6 to 12 months in Asia? Well I don't have that in front of me and to be honest with you I haven't -- we're just in the process of starting to review operating plans and I haven't even looked at the Costa operating plans.
We'll start that next week and one of the reasons Micky and Beth are already over in London is we're flying over David and I are flying over on Thursday and we start our planning and budgeting reviews of each of the brands in Europe next week later on this week.
Although Harry I can tell you if you look back the ship in Asia did better than the average of the Costa fleet in -- or expected to do in 2012 albeit keep in mind that those are depressed yields for Costa in 2012.
You also have to keep in mind you're talking about one ship on 100-ship fleet so increased profitability are not on the margin is small compared to the 100-ship fleet.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Wieczynski with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all I guess the onboard spend was a lot stronger well not a lot stronger but a good bit stronger than what we were looking for.
Can you just kind of comment was that across-the-board? And maybe what you're seeing in terms of the European brands and how onboard it's kind of trended over the last couple of months? Yes.
Onboards have been strong all year.
First of all if you break out just onboards from onboard and other because the other was impacted to some degree as I mentioned by the accounting change we had for the Alaskan tour operations.
But onboard was up a little bit over 3%.
It -- excluding Costa on both sides of the Atlantic in the third quarter it was up in the neighborhood of 2% to 3% in the first 2 quarters and we're expecting -- we're forecasting about 2% in the third quarter on a normalized basis.
I say on a normalized basis because we had a couple of credits last year from guaranteed payments in the fourth quarter of last year so if you actually look at the as-reported numbers included in our forecast onboards would look more flattish to down.
But we've had steady increases all year long and we've been very pleased with that and it's essentially across all of the major categories.
We've seen increases in bar we've seen casino shore ex and shops and those 4 categories make up about 80% of our onboard.
So we're very pleased.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question I guess you guys just made a recent change in terms of your commission structure for just the Carnival braid.
Is this -- is that something you'll essentially try to push out to the rest of the brands? And then your kind of second question of that is -- has there been much pushback from your agent community? Yes we didn't make any change in the commission structure.
All we did -- all Carnival Cruise Lines did was play some catch-up on override targets.
Virtually all our other brands and most of our competitor brands adjust their override targets based on capacity increases and do it either every year every other year but do it on a relatively regular basis.
Carnival Cruise Lines hadn't done it in 10 years.
And so basically that was a catch-up of capacity increases which over those 10 years was 50% and adjusting and also simplifying the override goals.
That's all it was.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk a little bit more about the capital allocation plans? You did return some cash to shareholders through the $67 million stock buyback this quarter but you have capacity for much more.
Could you just talk about how you're thinking about that especially versus dividend? And also David in the past has talked about essentially a variable dividend where you would true up some kind of dividend payout based on your earnings or your cash flow.
How is the Board starting to think about these issues over the next 6 to 12 months? Steve you got to keep in mind that our excess free cash flow for this year based off of our September guidance is almost about $400 million.
So we have returned in total I think it's $69 million through the share buyback program this year.
So there's not a huge amount of excess free cash flow for 2012 but we will continue to opportunistically buy back shares.
As I mentioned we still have $265 million remaining under the repurchase authorization.
Hopefully that excess free cash flow will continue to increase.
And then as it increases we've got to talk to the Board about the variety of alternatives we have that we've gone through in the past including a formulaic annual dividend as one option.
But at the moment these are things we're thinking about for the future when the excess free cash flow grows.
Research Division</strong> And the idea we're seeing some other companies start to talk about a special dividend especially this year.
Should we assume that's off the table? Well look we have -- Steve I think it's fair to say we have an October Board meeting we discuss -- when discussions of dividends purchases of stock treasury stock and so on come up so if there's anything to be said after the Board meeting we'll make an announcement.
But I don't want to suggest that we are going to do anything.
Yes.
Special dividend has not been high on our consideration list for this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First one as you look across the different big European markets over the last 1 month 2 months 3 months has any one market either gotten a lot better or a lot worse? I would say that U.K.
and Germany has held up better than we expected in the last 2 conference calls I would say a little bit.
While Italy France and Spain struggled -- well I'd say France did okay.
Italy and Spain continue especially Spain to be very difficult.
And actually surprisingly Costa despite having a difficult time pricing-wise maintained its market share in these markets.
They either maintained or even increased market share in these markets.
So I thought that was an interesting stat.
Research Division</strong> Good that's helpful.
And also just with the volatility in the Middle East has there been any impact to what you're seeing from your either North American or European-sourced business over the last week or so? I know the last 6 weeks had been pretty good but the last week have you seen some volatility around kind of the recent events? We've had some itinerary port cancellations but we only have -- I think it's -- if you look at '13 about less than 10% of our capacity calling in those kinds of ports.
And most of it is behind us for '12.
The peak of it is generally in the third quarter.
So it hasn't been much of an issue to date.
We do have one ship that Costa has a small ship operating next year at the beginning of the year in the Red Sea and that could be an issue if this continues much longer.
But other than that it's just one small ship really.
Our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva with Infinity Research.
My first question is with regards to your expectations about wave season 2013.
We had a very strong start to wave 2012 and so one would think that unless we have exogenous events we should probably expect a pretty decent wave 2013.
Has the changes in the European economies made you think that it may be less robust than what we saw a year ago or early this year rather? I think at this point each it's difficult to say.
I think that Europe has been soft for a while throughout this year even last -- throughout '12 even '11 and we're seeing a continuation of it.
So the comparisons may not be all that difficult for us in Europe insofar as wave season's concerned.
We lost a lot of the wave last year after January.
So all the brands were impacted last year's wave.
So relatively speaking we came on strong but then it weakened considerably in 2012.
This year we suspect that it will be a more sustainable wave but we'll have a better picture of it later on in the year when we can see because we haven't really -- a lot of the more marketing starts later in the fourth quarter so we'll have a better sense of it from a demand standpoint.
Later in the fourth quarter we'll see how things go but I think we're feeling pretty positive about the situation.
But Europe is challenging but we're there for the long term.
It is a strategy that we think will work.
We like the European demographics we like the market.
We think we're still -- the market is still considerably under-penetrated relative to other developed markets so we like our investments in Europe from a long-term standpoint and we'll get -- and once we get through this quite -- this difficult economic challenges that we're experiencing especially in southern Europe as Micky indicated I think we'll start to see some stabilization and some very positive results for the company longer term.
Okay.
And my second question relates to Costa.
I understood that occupancy is flat at present year-on-year.
Am I correct in that or did I miss something? What we said it was in the fourth quarter that our expectation was for occupancy to be essentially flat year-over-year.
Right now the existing occupancy at this point fourth quarter they caught up so they're flat year-over-year relatively.
Okay.
And based on that should we expect that in 2013 instead of a loss -- of the loss of $100 million in operating income that we saw this year we may see profitability in the $200 million range? Is that in the range? We're not at a position at this point to give specific guidance on Costa for 2013 but we do expect Costa to do better next year and it will continue to improve.
We'll see more improvement obviously in 2014 as well.
And so we'll give you more color on that in December.
What I did say in my comments is that we are expecting solid profitability for Costa in 2013.
So yes we will get back to profitability.
You have to remember also that Costa will operate next year with 3 less ships than they had this time last year because we sold the Marina and Allegra and we know what happened to the Concordia.
So even if they do very well they're not going to have the revenue from those 3 potential ships.
But they may get pricing because they have less capacity to sell hopefully? Hopefully.
Our next question comes from the line of Lena Thakkar with HSBC.
Research Division</strong> Just firstly on Q4 yields.
I'm just trying to first square the circle on your guidance of minus 5% to minus 6% which is similar to where Q3 actually came in.
But then in Q3 you said part of 3 percentage points of the 5% were down to Costa and in Q4 the occupancy goes back to flat versus I think it was minus 6% in Q3.
So I'm just trying to understand where the weakness the incremental weakness comes from.
Is that Costa pricing or pricing on brands outside of Costa in Q4 that you're expecting? I think one of the things you've got to keep in mind is when you look at the fourth quarter the onboard and other yields are down considerably from the third quarter because of all of the fourth quarter items that we had last year that I mentioned before in onboard and other.
The net passenger revenue is more flattish with the third quarter when you compare the -- when you look at the total company.
But I think what we've said is that Costa's -- on a year-over-year basis their pricing will come down from the third quarter because fourth quarter is typically a challenging quarter notwithstanding because it's out of season the demand factors are lower.
So we are seeing a narrowing on a year-over-year basis meaning an improvement in Costa's pricing when you look at it and we expect that to continue into Q1 as well.
So it is getting better.
But right now as we sell we caught up on occupancies we're selling at lower prices to do that.
That's what I said.
I'm not sure if I answered your question but...
Research Division</strong> Yes it was slightly convoluted question but that's helpful.
And then...
The fourth quarter for Costa yields were slightly better but it was more pricing than occupancy.
And for the rest of the company outside of Costa we are expecting yields to not show the same level of close-in demand that we enjoyed in the summer season because it's seasonally a little bit weaker in the fourth quarter than you normally would see at for close-in demand during the summer.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a quick one on fuel consumption.
Obviously the reduction there of 5.7% recently is significant.
I'm just wondering how we should think about that going into 2013.
And what your sort of ambitions are on reducing fuel consumption in the midterm? We have this question every year now for 3 years.
We're working very hard to reduce consumption and we believe that we can continue to do that at significant levels.
And I think next year we'll do it again is my perception.
I don't know that we'll continue to achieve the 6% improvement but...
We're looking 3% for the year right? We're looking at 3% for the year.
3% for the year [indiscernible] Research Division</strong> So are there any special measures that you've taken to get it to that 6% level? There isn't any one it's an accumulation of hundreds of little things that we've done over time to get to the 6%.
But there's a lot -- as we go through the next -- this past few years and the next several years going forward there's a lot of retrofitting of equipment onto the ships to reduce consumption power consumption just more sophisticated controls fan systems and so on.
And also where the opportunity comes up we can change around itineraries a little bit to get some reduction in fuel costs.
So there's a variety of things that we're doing.
Also I should mention that from a metric standpoint as we add ships to the fleet the newer ships so far are designed for lower fuel consumption so we're seeing some marginal benefits in those numbers from that as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> There was something in the press release that said due to the timing of certain expenses.
Can you refresh our memories on what those expenses might be and if that's a permanent change going forward? No that was just a timing between the third and fourth quarter and that was part of the reason why our costs were better than we had guided for the third quarter versus the June guidance.
The largest item was an adjustment to one of our insurance reserves.
We expected the actuary to deliver the report in September and they delivered it last week in August so we wound up making a journal entry.
There were some other changes in advertising professional fees hotel maintenance et cetera and it's really just a timing difference between the third and fourth quarter and not a permanent difference for the year or on an ongoing basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then has any of the delivery of the ships in the future changed where capacity growth maybe has changed a little bit for the forward years or does that remain the same? That's the same thing.
We haven't changed any delivery dates for the existing order book yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Lyall with John W.
Bristol.
Inc.</strong> Two questions.
A follow-up on the fuel conservation question.
The 6% number is maybe twice what you guys have realized previously in any quarter.
Can you talk about how much was itinerary and how much was onboard efficiency? Rick we don't have the detail between the technology versus itineraries.
A tremendous amount of detail we'd have to grow through to try to split that out.
We did actually forecast about a 4.5% increase in the third quarter.
We did better than we had expected.
I mean I think I've said this in the past.
Typically our maritime guys are a bit conservative.
Hopefully they've been conservative for the fourth quarter as well and we'll do better than what we're expecting there.
But I don't have the detail to break that out.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Follow-up question.
Just kind of looking at the numbers you cited on Costa.
If we think about a $500 million swing and perhaps a $100 million being removed due to capacity adjustments should we think about your normalized level of profitability for Costa is $300 million? You mean to get back to the where we were at the prior year? Inc.</strong> Yes.
Yes I mean well as a broad number you could say that.
I mean -- but a lot of the ships that went out -- the capacity that left were the 2 smaller ships in addition to Concordia so -- they were never very profitable ships to begin with.
So there's a devil in details here so I'd rather not to commit to anything like that.
But then certainly they're going to try to get back to as much profitability as they can.
But to climb back to where they were before will probably take another 1 year or 2 years beyond 2013.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That was my follow-up question if you'll get there by 3 years would be kind of like a return cliff or return ramp.
We would hope.
We would hope that's… Our next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I apologize.
My phone's been going in and out during this call so David if you already talked about this my apologies.
But you mentioned a few items that would pressure net cruise cost next year.
I was hoping you could give us some sort of order of magnitude on those buckets? Sure.
The largest is the deployment change.
They're all fairly similar in size but the deployment change is the largest.
The MNOPF or the multi-employer pension plan is worth about $25 million next year.
And the Costa occupancy is slightly smaller than that on a unit cost basis and those are -- that's the relative magnitude of those items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And of those 3 items is the multi-employer pension plan kind of true up? Is that a one-time only issue for next year or is it ongoing? Well I'd love to believe that it's one-time only.
But we've had this one-time only issue every 3 years now for a number of cycles.
Apparently the way it works is they do an estimate every 3 years and then they bill us.
This remember it's a closed plan so we've got no new members going in or anything like that but we do have to fund the existing commitments.
So if it was a deficit depending on what the stock market what happens in the stock market in all their investments over the next 3 years.
There could be a deficit or surplus in 2016.
If there was a deficit we would have to fund it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Rennardson with Jefferies Capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First one is the language you used to describe the outlook in the Q3 statement.
It's almost the same as you used in the Q2.
So I'm just slightly puzzled as to what you think has changed materially for the better in that period? And sort of leading on from that what would you view as a good result for 2013 net revenue yield increase what would you be happy with as a management team? I'll answer the first part.
The language in the press release is similar with regard to booking volume.
Booking volumes were strong both in the period leading up to June and the period leading up to September.
In this current outlook pricing has improved so we're generating the same level of booking volumes with less price action.
And Ian on the question of yield expectations for 2013 I think we'll be in a much better position.
It's still early for us.
After we get through the planning process which starts this week we'll have a better [indiscernible] We don't have it.
We don't have it right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a quick follow-up would be I think either you had or David said that the booking curve was a little bit closer and then historically was the norm.
Does that mean that you're outside of those numbers you've given us in the past about 55% to 75% mix quarter out booked or is it sort of still at the bottom end of that? We're at the bottom end of the numbers that we've historically given you.
I think what was said was that the North American market is basically in the norm booking pattern-wise but it's really the European market that's gotten a little bit closer in.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Thomas with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I realized this will be quite a difficult question to be precise about but I wonder whether within your full year net yield guidance excluding the Costa brand whether you could provide any sort of interim estimate of the extent to which that is negatively impacted as a result of what happened with the Costa Concordia in terms of the disruption to bookings curve at that stage of the year? Nick you're right on your introductory comment to that question.
It would just be -- it would be a guessing game to know.
There are so many -- there was so much noise that we've had in the markets this year apart from the event last January including deteriorating economies problems in Greece.
I mean there's just so many factors here higher airfares this year for North America and flying to Europe and the impact from that.
I don't -- I couldn't even begin to guess.
Research Division</strong> Well is there any validity I guess thinking back to the guidance that you gave in December on a group-wide basis.
The guidance excluding Costa now is probably sort of a couple of points worse than that guidance.
Does that provide a decent steer? Or is there just too many other things that have occurred subsequently? Clearly when the time we gave the December guidance we were comfortable with that guidance.
You can do the math.
But a lot of things other than the events of January as Howard said has happened.
But I think clearly and right up until January 13 we were very very comfortable with that guidance was good or even conservative.
I mean if you look at our guidance back last December which was a midpoint of $2.70 a share if you take out fuel and currency changes which affected us by about $0.30 a share and just the Costa swing in profit is about $0.64 a share that more than makes up for the -- for where our mid -- our guidance is of $1.85 today at $0.90 $0.95.
So in all other respects I think we've performed as expected and we gave up a little bit in yield on the outside of Costa with the other brands but we've also saved quite a bit on the cost side.
And in fact I think those 2 elements if you take them together probably would've taken us down even further than $1.85.
So we've been improved from the operating line if you take fuel and currency and Costa out.
And I'm talking about now all the other brands.
Just kind of give you a global picture.
And then also -- it's also how we see it too.
So even though [indiscernible] okay the other brands did just fine actually if you take out the fuel part.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
And then a completely different question if I can.
Just in relation to the fact that you have recommenced some share repurchases recently.
Is it whilst you're not going to be true on sort of how you will return funds to shareholders.
Is it logical given that you did some share repurchasing last year and you did a little bit more recently that we should be looking at your sort of overall leverage structure maybe on a debt-to-EBITDA basis this year end and then at last year's end and thinking about that as a level with which the management team is comfortable with and therefore going forward to the extent that you've got excess free cash flow one way or another whether there’s dividends special dividends share buybacks you'd look to keep that kind of leverage structure in place.
Is that a logical way to think about how you think about that issue? Well that is -- the answer is yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on one of the previous questions with Costa getting back to roughly a $300 million normalized run rate.
Would it be reasonable again just to clarify a previous answer you're seeing 2014 or 2015 you'd feel more comfortable in that area without obviously really knowing? Yes I mean they get the capacity back at the end of 2014 so that would give them the opportunity really of getting back fully in 2015.
But it's going to take some steps as Howard said.
It's going to take 2 or 3 years but we're going to make a very positive step.
We're going to make -- we believe we're going to make a very positive step in the first year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I apologize if I missed this but just any color on dealing with the increased emissions requirements going forward and some of the things that have been coming out regarding credits and so forth? And I apologize if you made any commentary on that earlier in the call.
No we didn't comment on the call.
We continue to work with EPA to try to come up with an arrangement at least for the next several years to see if we can do something called averaging weighted averaging.
We haven't been successful but we've got that also from a legislative agenda standpoint in Washington.
We're also pushing for a legislative fix to allow us a period of time to demonstrate what we can do on a weighted averaging basis.
But I would also say that when it comes to this issue that there's a number of new technologies that are going on in the R&amp;D area in research area that we're very hopeful on that could help us in this respect as well.
So we continue to work so that by the time 2015 comes around and these anchors gets spread across the globe we can mitigate the increased fuel cost.
But there's a lot between now and then -- a lot of time between now and then we're hopeful we can get it done yet in one form or another.
LLC Research Division</strong> And again also the $180 million guidance that you've given previously on that that was on a static fleet at that point in time of guidance and clearly you've made additional progress since then so even more opportunity beyond now correct? Yes we'll take a look and update those numbers in our 10-K.
About 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just two quick ones on cost please.
Has your underlying cost guidance changed? I see the one-offs you mentioned but are you still looking for net unit cost of flat to half inflation or are you finding sort of more pressures as your capacity growth slows? I think what I was trying to indicate is we have these unique items that are going to affect our cost next year which would be probably on top of flat to half of inflation is a good way of thinking about it.
Research Division</strong> So sort of 1.5% to 2% excludes that cost… Excludes the flat to half of inflation but I'll throw in one other point to think about is that this year we did have some unique items relating to ship incidences which will go away which will benefit us to the tune of about 0.5 point.
So net you're probably looking at 1 to 1.5 points on top of flat to half of inflation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other one is just on your Fun key [ph] guidance for Q4 739.
It's about 20% above the guidance a quarter ago but wholesale prices up about half that or less? Is there anything else in that number? It looks very high to me.
Well you've got to keep in mind that there's also some additional eco requirements in the fourth quarter that weren't in the third because on August 1 is when the eco requirements started and so that will affect the comparisons that you're looking at.
Research Division</strong> What's the impact for 2013 then on that basis for the remaining 9 quarters? Let's see.
On an annualized basis you're probably looking at an eco impact of let's just say $50 million to $55 million and probably 1/3 or 40% of that was in this year so you probably got an incremental $30-odd-million next year.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly Beth if you could just give us your second third and fourth quarter deployment in the Med.
And I think Micky said that you have about 10% in eastern Med just wanted to confirm that? Yes.
For the second third and fourth you're asking for 2013? I'm just trying to figure out.
Research Division</strong> Yes 2013.
So 2013 in the Med we have 6% in first quarter 17% in the second quarter 25% in the third quarter 28% in the fourth quarter and 19% of the full year.
And that's both East and West.
So of the 19% roughly half of it is the eastern portion.
Research Division</strong> And how much was eastern this year in 2012? It was about the same.
It was less than 10%.
Our next question is another follow-up question from the line of Rick Lyall with John W.
Bristol.
Inc.</strong> Just one last question guys.
What were the unreimbursed or uninsured expenses that ran through your P&amp;L for the Concordia incident? It was about $30 million -- well through the 9 months about $30 million and that's pretty much it for the year then maybe another $1 million or something.
Not much.
We have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much for your questions and if there's any follow on I guess people would get in touch with Beth.
But everybody have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday December 20 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Frank the Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and good afternoon to everyone.
Welcome to the Carnival Corporation conference call.
With me this morning is Micky Arison David Bernstein and Beth Roberts and we are all here in Miami on the call.
Let's start the call.
I'm going to turn it over to David and he can take you through the fourth quarter and the year 2012.
David? Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this conference call will be forward-looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currencies therefore unless otherwise noted as this is a more useful measure of our business trends.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.13.
The fourth quarter came in $0.04 above the midpoint of our September guidance despite a $0.02 impact from Hurricane Sandy.
The improvement was driven by higher net revenue yields worth $0.05 as pricing on close-in bookings was 1% better than expected a trend similar to last quarter.
And lower fuel prices combined with more favorable currency exchange rates positively impacted the results by $0.03.
Both of these improvements were partially offset by higher-than-expected net cruise costs excluding fuel costing $0.04 per share.
Now let's look at our fourth quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 2.7%.
The North American brands were up 3.7% while Europe Australia and Asia brands -- or as we call them our EAA brands -- were up 1.2%.
Our total net revenue yield decreased 4.5 points in the fourth quarter but showed sequential improvement versus the third quarter.
It should be noted that almost half of the decline in the fourth quarter was driven by Costa.
Excluding Costa net revenue yields decreased 2.4% driven by a 4% decline in net ticket revenue yields and that was partially offset by a 2% increase in net onboard and other revenue yields.
With respect to our net ticket yields the North American brands were down 3.7% driven by declines in late fees in Europe and Alaska while yields in the Caribbean and all of the remaining itineraries held up relatively well during the quarter.
Excluding Costa our EAA brands' net ticket yields were down slightly less at 3.4% driven by the European brands while net ticket yields in Asia were up nicely.
For net onboard and other yields again excluding Costa the increase was 2% with increases on both sides of the Atlantic and in all major categories of onboard revenue.
On the cost side net cruise cost per available lower berth day excluding fuel was down 1% versus the prior year.
The decline was less than we expected in our September guidance.
As I have said in the past it's very difficult to estimate the timing of many of our expenses by quarter and therefore the better measure of net cruise cost performance is on an annual basis.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption per ALBD declined 4.4% this quarter thus continuing a multiple-year savings trend.
Fuel prices this quarter were up 5% versus the prior year which cost us $0.04.
In summary the fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.13.
This was lower than 2011 earnings of $0.28 per share driven primarily by lower operating income at Costa.
Now looking at the full year 2012.
As Micky stated in the earnings release this past year has been the most challenging year in our company's history as a result of the Costa Concordia incident.
The ship incident had a profound impact on each and every employee of the company both shoreside and shipboard and has driven all of us to reinforce our commitment to the safety of our guests and crew.
We have taken numerous steps to identify lessons learned and best practices.
In addition we have and will continue to implement improvements to our procedures and our training programs.
Furthermore we have improved the structure and organization of our health environmental safety and security-related audit functions.
Over the next few years we expect to fully recover from this ship incident and continue to build on our leadership position.
For 2012 our non-GAAP EPS was $1.88 versus the prior year's $2.42.
The decrease was driven by lower net revenue yields costing $0.41 and higher fuel prices combined with unfavorable currency exchange rates costing an additional $0.39.
Both of these were partially offset by slightly lower cruise costs 4% lower fuel consumption and increased capacity worth $0.25.
For 2012 our net revenue yields excluding Costa were in line with the prior year.
Our North American brands were up slightly but that was offset by our EAA brands excluding Costa which were down slightly.
Our 2012 net revenue yields including Costa declined 2.5%.
Turning to our cash flow.
As Micky indicated in the earnings release our cash from operations was $3 billion which was more than enough to fund the net capital investments of $1.8 billion leaving us with free cash flow of $1.2 billion for 2012.
By the end of December we will have returned all of this free cash flow to our shareholders via a $0.25-per-share regular quarterly dividend our recently announced special dividend of $0.50 per share and by repurchasing 3.5 million of our company's shares.
It should be noted that this is the second year in a row that we returned all of our free cash flow to shareholders.
In 2011 the dividends paid and shares repurchased totaled $1.1 billion which represented all of our 2011 free cash flow.
Now turning to our 2013 outlook.
I will skip net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
As you know we have an excellent record of cost control.
For 2013 our operating companies have done an excellent job identifying ways to reduce forecasted costs.
However there are a few unique items [ph] in 2013 that will be difficult to totally overcome which will push our unit cost higher.
To begin with we are expecting that Costa will fill their ships in 2013 which will lead to higher food and other unit costs associated with this higher occupancy.
Also as I have previously indicated our insurance costs will be higher in 2013.
Furthermore we are anticipating a charge from a closed pension plan for certain British officers.
Finally we are investing in new market development initiatives in Japan China and Australia including deployment decisions not yet announced.
These unique factors alone in 2013 will drive up unit costs 2%.
To complete the cost picture as you know we have also had some ship incident-related costs in 2012 which are not expected to reoccur in 2013 worth about 0.5%.
The net effect of these factors is that we are forecasting the full year cost excluding fuel per ALBD to be up 1% to 2% versus the prior year.
Absent these items we once again expect to offset inflation and keep unit cost essentially flat in 2013.
However even if you include these unique factors our 5-year expected cost trend from 2008 through 2013 will be flat net cruise cost excluding fuel on a unit basis despite inflation.
Another multiple-year trend worth noting is our fuel consumption.
As a result of our operating company's efforts over the years we expect in 2013 to use 24% less fuel per berth than we did in 2005.
This is a substantial energy saving which clearly reduces our environmental footprint.
I want to share with you our current rules of thumb about the impact that fuel price changes and currency changes have on our results.
To start with a 10% change in the current price of fuel excluding the impact of fuel derivatives represents a $0.30-per-share impact for the full year.
Please note that the impact of a 10% change obviously moves along with the price of fuel.
Just to be clear the price of Brent was just under $110 a barrel when we determined our guidance.
The second rule of thumb relates to our fuel derivative portfolio where the next 10% increase in the price of Brent for the year will not result in any realized gains as the price of Brent would still be within the band of our collars.
However the next 10% decrease would result in a $4-million loss.
For 2013 our protection begins with the price of Brent -- when the price of Brent goes above $127 per barrel and we begin to pay on our fuel derivatives when the price of Brent falls below $100 per barrel.
With respect to FX movement a 10% change in all relevant currencies related to the U.S.
dollar would impact our P&amp;L by approximately $158 million or $0.20 a share for the full year.
On a final note for 2013 at the midpoint of our guidance range we expect our cash from operations to be $3.3 billion.
Our capital investment in 2013 is forecasted to be $2 billion which leaves us $1.3 billion of free cash flow that we expect to return to shareholders.
This would result in a total return to shareholders of over $3.5 billion in a 3-year period from 2011 to 2013.
At this point I will turn the call over to Howard.
Thank you David.
Before I move to the outlook let me begin my comments by framing the 2013 year.
We have 2 ships scheduled for delivery in 2013.
The first is the 2 200-lower-berth AIDAstella which will be delivered in March to our very successful AIDA brand in the German-speaking market; and the next one will be the new-generation Royal Princess with 3 600 lower berths which will be delivered sometime towards the end of May.
These 2 ships together with 3 ships delivered during this past year 2012 will drive a 3.6% increase in cruise capacity in 2013.
For the full year 2013 our cruise programs will be approximately 33% in the Caribbean 19% in the Mediterranean 12% in Europe outside of the Mediterranean 10% in the Australia-Asia region and with the balance in various other itineraries.
The largest increase in our cruise programs in 2013 from a percentage standpoint is in the Australia-Asia region and in Europe outside of the Mediterranean.
Our earnings guidance for 2013 has been established within a range of $2.20 to $2.40 or a midpoint of $2.30 per share about 20% higher than in 2012.
Our earnings guidance for 2013 assumes that the U.S.
does not go off the fiscal cliff in January and go into an economic recession during 2013.
Hopefully wisdom will prevail in Washington and January will be the start of a solid 2013 wave season.
In Europe where we have a strong market presence we anticipate continuing struggling economies during 2013 much as we experienced during 2012.
With regard to our strategy to grow our European cruise businesses let me make a few comments.
From a longer-term viewpoint we are committed to maintaining our strong national brands presence in Europe.
We believe European economies will improve over time and our strong European brands positioning together with the significant market penetration throughout Europe and the U.K.
provides us with a significant market advantage.
Even during this difficult economic period in Europe our European brands continued to provide us with strong profitability and returns on invested capital.
And when Europe economies start to grow again we will have an even stronger competitive advantage.
In the Asia markets we are planning a significant increase in our footprint.
In April 2013 Princess Cruises will introduce the Sun Princess to the Japanese market and we have recently established a Carnival Japan sales and reservations office in Tokyo.
With the announcement of the Sun Princess Japanese deployment response from the market in Japan has been very strong and early signs are quite encouraging.
In Southeast Asia we are adding a second Costa ship this spring the Costa Atlantica doubling our capacity in the market.
With the Costa Victoria operating in Asia year-round in 2012 this past year for the first time Costa achieved profitability in China.
And the 2013 operating plan forecasts a nice increase in Costa Asia's profitability.
We believe Asia represents a significant opportunity to grow our cruise business in the future and we are currently looking at expanding our business in these new and emerging markets.
We recently established a Carnival Asia corporate office in Singapore headed by Pier Foschi who has considerable business experience operating in Asia.
We'll have further announcements in early 2013 on fleet expansion in Asia beyond 2013.
In Australia Carnival Cruise Lines successfully introduced the Carnival Spirit to the market at the end of this past year for the year that we're in 2012 and the response from the Australian consumer has been very strong.
The Carnival Spirit will be a year-round ship in the Australian market.
So to sum it up we are very encouraged about our business going forward in 2013.
And although the struggling economies in Europe are having some impact on our business we are very confident that the company will achieve solid growth in profitability over the next several years and at the same time be able to return significant excess cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases.
Now let me turn to the booking picture for 2013.
During the last 13 weeks fleet-wide bookings and pricing excluding Costa for the first 3 quarters of 2013 are at the same levels against the very strong booking volumes we experienced last year.
Not surprisingly Costa's pricing is still running behind last year's pricing but we expect that to change once we lap January of 2012.
For our North American brands during the 13-week period bookings are running slightly behind with slightly higher pricing.
For EAA brands bookings excluding Costa are running at higher levels than last year at lower pricing.
We are encouraged by the recent North American booking pattern especially given consumer distraction from the elections and postelection consumer nervousness about the pending fiscal cliff.
And the recent pattern excludes some negative impact on bookings from the Northeast resulting from Hurricane Sandy.
So we are hopeful that once the fiscal cliff issue is resolved and we get into January and the wave season begins consumers will start to turn their attention to getting on with their lives and booking their cruise vacations.
For the full year from a revenue yield forecast standpoint we are forecasting a constant currency increase in yields in the range of 1% to 2%.
North American revenue yields are forecasted to come in higher year-over-year.
EAA yields are forecasted to be higher when we include Costa which will have easier comps versus last year.
But excluding Costa EAA yields are forecasted to be lower on a year-over-year basis.
Given the economic challenges in the European markets in which we operate the positive yield outlook include -- which includes of course Costa demonstrates the resilience of our cruise business in Europe the underlying strength of the European consumer and the propensity for Europeans to take their vacations even during these difficult times.
And while we would have liked to see even stronger rebound in revenue yields in 2013 the less-than-robust U.S.
economy and the struggling European economies will make higher pricing increases difficult to achieve.
In terms of our earnings guidance for 2013 broadly speaking our forecasted earnings improvement is expected to come from top line revenue growth of 5% to 6% including -- which includes a 3.6% fleet-wide capacity increase and the 1% to 2% yield increase which I previously referred to.
We are also forecasting lower fuel pricing and a 5% improvement in fuel consumption.
Net cruise costs other than fuel are expected to increase 1% to 2% as David mentioned.
All of this translates to an earnings per share range of $2.20 to $2.40 or approximately a 20% increase in earnings from -- if you're using the midpoint from the $1.88 per share in 2012.
Turning to the first quarter a little bit of color.
My comments on bookings in each of these next 3 quarters that I discuss will include Costa's information for both years unless I otherwise indicate.
Fleet-wide capacity for the first quarter of 2013 is expected to be 4.2% higher.
3.6% of that is in North America 5.1% in EAA.
At the present time fleet-wide occupancy in the first quarter are lower than a year ago with pricing slightly lower versus last year.
There is very little inventory however remaining to be sold in the first quarter.
In the first quarter for North American brands there are 65% in the Caribbean with the balance in various other itineraries.
For North American brands taken together occupancies and pricing are slightly lower year-over-year.
As previously mentioned revenue yield comparisons for first quarter of 2013 versus first quarter of 2012 are tougher given our strong first quarter North American revenue yield performance in 2012 which at this point was up 5% at this point in time.
Caribbean pricing is in line with a year ago.
Pricing on all other itineraries taken together is lower than a year ago.
EAA brands are 24% in Europe; itineraries up from 19% last year; 18% in the Caribbean down from 22% last year; and 18% in South America about the same as last year.
The balance of course is in all other itineraries.
On a fleet-wide basis EAA brand occupancies are behind last year with lower year-over-year prices.
On a fleet-wide basis as was indicated in the press release revenue yields for the first quarter are forecasted to be 2% to 3% lower than last year.
North American revenue yields are expected to be flat to slightly lower and EAA yields will be lower.
Turning now to the second quarter fleet-wide capacity which is up 3.2%: 2.3% for North America and 4.6% for EAA brands.
At the present time on a fleet-wide basis local currency pricing is slightly lower than a year ago with occupancies running behind last year evidencing the continuing close-in booking cycle that we have been experiencing for quite some time.
We expect second quarter occupancies and pricing to show gradual year-over-year improvement as we fully cycle through January of 2013.
North American brands are 53% in the Caribbean in the first quarter versus 56% last year with the balance in a variety of other itineraries.
For North American brands taken together pricing is slightly higher at lower occupancies.
Caribbean pricing is higher than a year ago.
Prices for all other North American brand itineraries taken together are slightly lower than a year ago.
EAA brands are 59% in Europe up from 53% last year with the balance in various other trades.
EAA brand pricing is lower than last year at lower occupancies.
Although occupancy and pricing for the second quarter are behind last year we do expect to see a catch-up when we fully cycle through the first quarter.
Because of easier comparisons we do expect to see an improvement in revenue yields for both North America and EAA brands by the time the second quarter closes.
Now turning to the third quarter.
Capacity in the third quarter is expected to increase 3.7%: 4.5% in North America 2.6% in EAA.
Third quarter booking patterns are still in the early stages of development so I caution not to read too much into this information.
On a fleet-wide basis third quarter occupancies and pricing are behind last year.
For North American brands capacity in the third quarter is 38% in the Caribbean which is about the same as last year; 24% in Alaska and -- about also the same; and 26% in Europe which is slightly higher than last year; the balance of the itineraries in various other programs.
Overall pricing for North American brands is higher than a year ago at lower occupancies.
Pricing for Caribbean and Alaska cruises is higher than last year while the pricing for European cruises is about at the same levels as last year.
EAA brand capacity is 87% in Europe itineraries which is slightly lower than last year.
EAA pricing is lower than a year ago at lower occupancies.
As I commented on earlier it is still early in the booking pattern and much of the third quarter revenue picture will depend on the strength of the 2013 wave season.
We are currently forecasting that third quarter revenue yield for North America will be higher.
EAA will also be higher year-over-year with the yield improvement driven by the easier revenue comparisons for Costa in the third quarter.
Excluding Costa we do expect that EAA revenue yields to decline in the third quarter on a year-over-year basis.
And with that Charlene I will turn it back to you and we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just trying to understand how much it's that you're being conservative in your guidance versus how challenging the outlook is because you had talked about this year that Costa's occupancy -- the Costa brand alone that occupancy has been down around 6 points.
And so it seems like even just recovering that occupancy alone for the Costa brand would get to the company-wide yield increase that you guys are talking about across all the brands.
So I guess I wonder if you can just put some perspective on that.
And then I guess just how much lower are the other EAA brands x Costa? I guess that's the only thing that would kind of make the company-wide be -- only up as much as Costa's occupancy recovery.
Let me give you a -- kind of the broad strokes on it because there's a lot of details that we probably can't get into on this call.
But we're going to have higher yields in North America as I indicated.
We're going to have higher yields in Costa and we estimate that perhaps 50% of our yield deterioration in Costa last year will be recovered -- in the neighborhood of that will be recovered this year in -- this coming year in 2013.
And the rest of Europe outside of Costa will have lower yields.
So that's sort of a composite of the 3 elements that make up the yield picture.
And what I've tried to indicate in my comments Robin is that in a year in which we do have increased capacity in Europe especially in Germany where we also had increased capacity in 2012; and given the headwinds in the economies in Europe and the very close-in booking pattern that we're seeing in Europe in Germany the U.K.
and in Southern Europe it's very difficult to forecast yields because it depends on how bookings start to come in in the wave period.
Whether we're conservative or we're not conservative I think it is a forecast based on the best work that our brands can give us right now in these markets.
And could we do better? Sure.
Could we do worse? Of course.
It is early and let's see how it goes.
Robin a couple of points to make is one I think we've been consistent in saying that recovery at Costa is not a 1-year issue.
It's going to be multiple years.
And we're forecasting a recovery of about half the yield deterioration.
That's one item.
Two is it's important to understand that we don't cycle through this until the second quarter because the first quarter was done.
And the timing of first quarter in this instance versus competitors is very important because it did happen in the middle of our first quarter when the first quarter was done.
So that's impacting it as well.
So I think those 2 -- the combination of those 2 things significantly answer your question.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one point of clarification because clearly no one would have expected full recovery at Costa in 1 year.
But it seems like the occupancy would be something that could come back pretty quickly given that it came back between -- from January until the end of this year that -- therefore that 2013 Costa occupancy would be pretty well recovered even though there would clearly be work to do on the price recovery.
Is that occupancy for Costa -- are you not expecting it to be back to recovering those 6 percentage points of occupancy? Robin yes we are -- the 50 -- included in the 50% that Howard mentioned is a full occupancy recovery.
Costa was very close to normal occupancy in the fourth quarter and we are expecting normal occupancy and full ships for 2013.
And that is the full 6% recovery in their occupancy.
But as Howard mentioned given the economy in Europe they are expecting some price recovery on top of that but the overall economic situation in Europe is tempering the amount of price recovery that they are expecting to get.
Plus I would like to add if you expect the first quarter being down in pricing for the Costa brand then their recovery in the back half of the year is a little bit heavier pricing.
And our next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So Howard this is also for you just as I'm trying to digest your guidance.
And I'm going to kind of preface my comments with knowing that -- with just acknowledging that.
And you all have seen as we've talked about this for many years that talking to travel agents doesn't necessarily always correlate to what you guys are seeing.
But a lot of us do it because it's helpful in our research.
And that being said our travel agents are implying to us that the 2013 yields in North America are more robust than your guidance would imply.
So -- and then also on top of that just lower capacity industry-wide should also help.
So kind of if you add those 2 together what you're seeing is that North America seems more muted than a lot of us were expecting.
And I'm just trying to figure out is this more related to perhaps the fiscal cliff right now what we're seeing? Maybe people are holding back.
Maybe some Sandy.
Or are we just totally off? Well I'm happy to hear that travel agents are feeling that pricing is going up.
I think that's a positive.
I mean I don't know how...
But we've also said that North America pricing is up.
Yes.
I don't know how...
Research Division</strong> Well they're saying more than what you're -- higher than what you're saying.
I don't know how that translates to our outlook though because I think there are many factors that play in our yield outlook that travel agents -- you can't translate from travel agents' comments and/or their individual data points.
And it depends on what they're selling.
If they're selling -- Caribbean looks strong now so Caribbean business is pretty good.
But then there are long cruises.
There's Europe.
There's a whole variety of things that we look at.
And when you ask them a question I'm not quite sure how it's asked how the details of it is...
[indiscernible] first quarter is not in their mindset.
Yes so it's very -- but I guess the bottom line is it's hard to know when we see the reports that you guys write in terms of Europe canvassing of travel agents and we kind of scratch our heads -- sometimes it's right on and sometimes we kind of scratch our heads and see a little bit differently than they do.
So it doesn't always correlate.
One thing that you've got to keep in mind is that if you look at it on a quarter-by-quarter basis we gave guidance for the first quarter down 2% to 3% because as Micky said when the incident happened last year we were almost done -- we were halfway through the quarter and the booking was essentially done.
And last year our yields were up quite a bit in the first quarter so we're going to be down 2% to 3%.
Howard had indicated we do expect the second quarter to be up.
But when you look at the full year guidance of 1% to 2% that does imply let's say 2% to 3% yield increase in the back half of the year.
So it's possible that what you're getting in the discussion with the travel agents is more relating to those types of prices than it is the first quarter where we're down 2% to 3% from a very strong prior year.
Yes.
Last year in North America we were up 5 points in the first quarter.
And I don't think the travel agents are focused on when you cycle through a quarter.
They're just focusing on the general business.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then Howard something that you said actually gets to the next point of my question which is can you just kind of give us some color how things -- you said that the Caribbean is strong now but maybe some longer cruises aren't doing as well.
Can you just give us some color so we can understand the consumer mentality in terms of what things are selling well and what things have more challenges? Can I just say that our booking pattern in the fall has been strong? When you consider last year it was extremely strong.
But again until we cycle the event and get into wave season it just makes it very very difficult.
Yes.
And on top of that we had the elections this year which always presents a challenge in terms of consumer distraction.
And then right after the election when things start to normalize we had the issue with the fiscal cliff which continues to nag us.
So it -- and as well as Sandy.
But I think -- yes I mean I think we're doing okay.
I think bookings -- I think if we're seeing challenges from a North America standpoint it's more on volume in terms of we're running behind.
Although pricing is okay for Europe and Alaska going forward we're running behind on occupancy.
So the question is is that going to resolve itself during wave season? We start to -- and then there is also the challenge of the higher air costs that we're all dealing with on the longer cruises so -- but we're trying to hold price and we think -- everybody thinks they're going to get there.
But it's a long time between now and late spring and summer when these cruises start to occur.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like your guidance is not trying to anticipate what things might look like once we get past hopefully this fiscal cliff issue and other things; it's what you're kind of seeing now.
The guidance is based on what our operating companies are telling me.
And then we kind of take a look at it and if we think that -- we may make some minor tweaks to it but only minor tweaks to it.
We have a couple of things that makes forecasting always challenging at this time of year.
One is the booking curve has clearly moved in which makes forecasting tougher.
And the fact that we have to do this prior to wave also makes it tougher.
Research Division</strong> You could change your fiscal year.
Yes we could.
We've talked about that.
I think the best thing is to resolve the fiscal cliff and we'll all be happy.
Even if we have to pay more taxes let it happen already.
It's painful.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> My question is if you go back to when you had your last earnings call have things changed meaningfully? Like if you were to have given guidance then versus now would you say it's about -- would have been about the same? When you say would I have changed guidance I don't think I know what guidance would've been back 3 months ago for 2013.
I would say one thing.
We have been saying that Northern Europe and the U.K.
have been strong.
And in fact in '12 we had a good year in both Germany and the U.K.
We're starting to have -- to see some effect of a weaker economy both in the U.K.
and Germany which we really didn't see a whole lot in '12.
So if there's anything different I'd say we're a little bit more concerned.
Although those brands are performing well we are a little bit concerned going forward as the booking curve has tightened in those countries.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess I was just trying to get at have things gotten a little bit incrementally better or worse since then? And that's helpful.
And as you kind of look out to Europe I know you typically talk about some of the markets that are weaker and stronger.
Has anything changed over the last month or 2 in any of the markets to make you a little bit more optimistic or pessimistic? Just maybe point out a market or 2 that you think has maybe changed.
I think I just did.
It's really Germany and the U.K.
where we had a very good '12 looks a little bit weaker and the booking curve has moved in.
On the other hand I should say in Germany we have -- just in the German market we have a lot of additional capacity coming in on top of capacity last year.
So there's a big capacity increase and we've got a closer-in booking curve.
Germany you may recall the German market I think was more profoundly affected than -- like Italy as a result of last year's -- last January's event.
So I think that's been a little bit slower to come back although all the data and consumer research we've recently seen suggests that the German market will come back and that things -- and people are feeling much more positive about taking cruises.
So we think that's still a good market.
The other thing that I haven't seen a lot of focus on is some of our competitors have talked about reducing capacity in Europe.
But in reality our 2 largest competitors together have increased their Northern Europe capacity by over 20% next year.
So the Northern Europe itineraries have tended to be the highest yielding itineraries in the European market and that capacity increase -- it will be interesting to see how that all plays out.
Our next question will come from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura group.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
This 1% to 2% is not a particularly satisfying number and could you give us your perspective after 2 years of Arab Spring and Costa? Is it disappointing to you? And do you think that some of it is perhaps related to the amount of capacity that has moved into Europe? Does it maybe argue for moving some of the capacity out of Europe? And then the last add-on question is from the point of view of profitability per berth how close are you in Asia to maybe shifting some capacity to Asia and lifting your yields and EBITDA per berth? So you made 3 comments Harry.
This is Howard.
Is the 1% to 2% not -- are we not satisfied with it? I think -- directionally I think we're satisfied with it.
Sometimes it's difficult -- consensus for yields in the investment community don't always match reality or what we see as reality in our particular markets or even what our competitors are doing.
We do have a lot more increase in capacity I think in 2013 than our competitors have.
One of those increases will be in the German market.
Perhaps that -- and on top of capacity increases we had last year.
So when you look at Europe and Germany we like the business there.
We think it's a great -- it's an under-penetrated market.
It's got great demographics.
And even in these very challenging times we get very good profitability from these brands even if yield's down 1% to 2% and excellent returns.
So we see the strategy as staying in Europe as the right strategy for us.
And to continue to penetrate those markets it only strengthens us from a competitive standpoint in the future.
So -- which is my comments -- my earlier comments.
I don't think moving ships around because we start to see some weakness in a particular market.
By the time you move them around and get them to the new markets then the old markets come back.
So to us that's a very short-term solution to what we think is a poor long-term strategy.
A couple of things.
One is I think you got to look at the yield improvement after the first quarter which is higher than the number you stated.
Secondly satisfied -- I wouldn't be satisfied if it was 5 or 6.
I mean we always want more obviously and we always push for more.
The reality though is that our focus is profitably our focus is profit per berth day.
We get overly focused on yield sometimes.
And a great example of this is the fact that we're forecasting fuel consumption to be down 5% next year.
And to do that we had to make some itinerary adjustments that risk yield.
And so we'll trade yields for lower cost.
And then it -- the yield number looks lower.
The example I've used in the past was when we went from 6 to 8 transatlantic on Queen Mary to 7 we would be perfectly happy to have gotten 6.5 days of yield versus 7 because the reduction in the fuel cost made up for more than the 1-day yield.
So it's -- yield is just part of the equation.
The real key is doing everything we can to increase our profit per berth day.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick -- I'm sorry go ahead.
I was going to say your last -- you mentioned Asia there at the end and I think both Howard and I alluded to Asia and the fact that there will be more announcements relative to Asia going forward.
Yes.
As you know we've opened a Singapore corporate office that Pier Foschi will be heading up for us.
And by the end of the first quarter we should have more deployment announcement in that region.
And also Mario Draghi said earlier in the week that the European economy is coming back in the second half of the year.
So we're waiting for that to happen.
Research Division</strong> And God bless us if his crystal ball is accurate.
Just one follow-up on Asia.
Separating yield growth from cost how does Asia compare to Europe and North America from both your ability to price up? And also is it just more expensive to operate in Asia? It is more expensive to operate.
And brand by -- the question you asked is very difficult when you take a mix of all our brands.
But if you look at the Carnival Cruise Line deployment in Australia yes their yields are up.
If you look at the Princess deployment it's also positive.
So clearly again we're going to make deployment decisions hopefully long term to increase our profit per berth day.
But the costs that we're looking at today with a very limited fleet especially in Asia it's not necessarily representative.
If we had built a fleet there we have more ships over there we'll get some -- certainly some shoreside benefits from it.
And as infrastructure is created over there to handle the ships there will be some benefits to cost.
So it will take some time but costs essentially are higher but the yields are good.
So we're okay.
And we'll just have to be a little bit patient.
But we think it's a great market to develop and a great new market for us.
And our next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I'm kind of intrigued by the comments you made about the U.K.
and Germany getting somewhat softer.
And I think it would probably be helpful to know just roundly kind of what the yields were like for your U.K.
brands and how [ph] you did this year and what the differential might be going into 2013 and how much that's weighing on your overall yield guidance.
Yes look I think we said yields will be down.
We're not going to get into that.
We don't really Sharon discuss yields for individual companies in the group.
We never -- we just don't think that's a smart thing to do from a competitive standpoint.
But from a directional standpoint they're going to be down.
And we have gotten more into the yield issues in Costa because of the unique circumstances last year but we're not going to go beyond that.
Research Division</strong> I guess are you seeing stabilization yet in either of the countries? Or is it a kind of moving target right now? What we're seeing is a close-in booking pattern both in Germany and the U.K.
And we haven't seen actually that much deterioration in pricing.
But the question is if you don't start to see the business coming in strongly in wave season you may have to move some pricing down.
So some of this yield guidance we're giving you is really a future to look at the crystal ball and say "Well what possibly can happen in the third and fourth quarters here?" And it's difficult -- it's more difficult to estimate it today because of the closer-in booking pattern.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us what the -- sorry go ahead.
Clearly the German economy weakened in the second half of the year and all of our capacity increase in Europe next year is in Germany.
So it's not surprising that there'd be some pressure on yields in Germany.
On the other hand the brand -- the primary brand in Germany is a stellar performer for us and will be next year as well at slightly lower yields.
Research Division</strong> I seem to recall the U.K.
has a long booking window.
I don't know if that's the same for Germany.
Can you remind us how those booking windows kind of compare to the overall average? The U.K.
had our longest booking window.
But they also sell long cruises.
They have -- especially in the winter time they'll -- they do have a few around-the-world cruises and long cruises...
5 ships.
5 ships going around the world.
So those tend to book way in advance.
So the first quarter in the U.K.
looks like it's shaping up pretty well right now.
It's really the forecasting the second third and fourth quarter with the closer-in booking pattern because the cruises you're selling coming into the spring and summer are shorter-duration cruises.
It starts to look like them -- like the booking patterns in many of the other businesses including our German business which is shorter cruises.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Wieczynski with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David I guess this question is probably best for you.
I think you said on -- I want to make sure this is right.
In terms of the cost assumptions next year did you say if you strip out the higher insurance cost and the higher pension cost and the development cost your cost assumption would basically be flat? Correct.
And if you take into account the prior year ship incident costs we would have been flat year-over-year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what happened in the fourth quarter in terms of is there -- were there 1 or 2 things that kind of drove that cost number higher than you guys were expecting? No.
It's all the way across the board in a number of instances.
There wasn't anything specific.
It's -- as I said before it's really tough quarter-by-quarter.
I mean if you remember back in the third quarter we beat the cost guidance we -- and this quarter we were above.
So you got to look at the full year on an annual basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the onboard side of things those numbers have actually been trending I think a little better than most people have expected and just maybe how you're thinking about the onboard trends as we move into '13.
Our onboard trend overall around the globe is -- for '13 is very similar to '12.
'12 we were up like a little over 2% and our guidance for '13 is in the similar range with increases in all the major categories.
Our operating companies have done a great job with some new initiatives and so we're expecting those to be driven higher as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess last question for -- probably for Micky I guess.
In terms of the -- with the potential changes here in tax law I mean how are you guys thinking about deploying your free cash here over the next couple of years back to shareholders? Is it kind of a wait-and-see mentality right now in terms of how you do that? Or can you just give us some color on that? Well what we've said over and over is we're going to return free cash flow to shareholders.
Until we know what the tax law is going to be it's hard to really respond.
But once we know that obviously we'll take it to the board and see what -- if they prefer a different direction or same direction or whatever.
But until we see the final package it's very hard to guess.
And so what we've done so far as you know is that special dividend at year end and we're waiting to see what happens in January.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to revisit your guidance on Europe you've seen Thomas Cook and TUI basically imply that over the next 6 months that things are kind of flattish in terms of bookings and pricing.
So again just to summarize -- or to take that guidance versus what you're seeing out of Europe x Costa is it truly just a capacity issue that you're adding capacity in what's been your strongest market Germany? Is that to boil it down what we can take away as the difference? One of the ways -- I don't know enough about how they manage their business at TUI and Thomas Cook.
But they can -- I do know historically they can move capacity up or down in order to generate higher prices.
So it's not always a good analogy to look at what they're doing and how they're faring in the market from a pricing standpoint versus we're doing -- certainly we do have increased capacity.
Yes.
Generally when they talk about volumes they talk about absolute volumes.
When we talk about -- and we're talking about capacity adjusted.
I don't believe they do that.
And so if we just had flat volumes we'd be in deep concern especially in Germany where our capacity increases.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then to revisit I guess some framework on Costa given the 2 ships that are out of service and then the Concordia top of that I think in previous calls you mentioned that $300 million would be sort of a new normalized run rate as far as profitability in Costa.
I just wanted to clarify are you counting in the new ships that Costa will be taking delivery of? It would seem that yes you lost 2 ships.
You sold one got rid of one and then the Allegra what happened there.
Those weren't that I can't say profitable but had less profitability higher cost structure clearly than Concordia.
But now you're adding -- going to be adding 2 new ships.
Could that -- with the new ships could that new normalized run rate be back closer to the original $400 million? First of all I'm not going to comment on your number.
I'm not exactly sure where it came from.
But we only have one ship under contract for Costa at the end of '14 so the profitability would not be seen until '15.
So I mean that's all I can say at this point that we'd expect Costa's profit to be up in '15 obviously with at least the capacity increase that they have.
We do believe that Costa -- that over -- from after '13 we continue to believe that Costa will continue to grow its profitability in '14 before the new ship is delivered.
So whether it gets back to the numbers that they previously had that will take a few years.
We've always said that that may take a few years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a final question relating to the return of capital.
It appears again that the company as you stated in the past was going to return the excess free cash flow.
With the special dividend this year has there been any further thought regarding coming up with a formularic [ph] portion of that on a go-forward basis? I think we're now defering to see what comes out of Washington and then we'll make a decision on how we go with that forward.
And our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva with Infinity Research.
A couple of questions.
First of all the good close-in bookings that we have seen both in Q3 and Q4 are you expecting that Q1 is not going to be a repeat of that? We are basically a quarter of the way into the quarter and I would think you're already there seeing those or you don't see them and therefore guidance is not including any pickup on sort of just near-term pricing.
Yes.
We gave you our best guess for first quarter which included what we expect the close-in bookings to be.
We're typically 85% to 95% done at this point for the first quarter and we're in that range.
So it's very hard to read every last booking.
Maybe we get a little better or a little worse but we gave you our best guess for the first quarter.
Which is what we do every -- It's what we do every quarter.
I understand.
But it's safe to assume that you expect the continuation of this trend at least to some extent in Q1.
We built into that forecast good solid bookings for the remaining 10-odd percent of the occupancy for the first quarter.
Okay okay.
And the second question is based on all the troubles that Europe is in and the fact that shipyards may be a lot more open to discussions in terms of ship cost have you looked at any newbuilds? Especially the Carnival brand is not going to have anything any time soon and Holland America has been without a newbuild for a while.
In 2015 you do have almost 5% capacity coming in at least based on my figures.
So for 2016 '17 is this a good time to actually be speaking to them? Or are you holding off and focusing primarily on returning free cash to shareholders? Well we've committed -- we've said now for 5 years that we'll be building 2 to 3 ships a year.
That's what we're doing.
Whether the yards are doing well or not doing well whether the price is plus or minus 5% or 10% it's not going to make us build more or less.
I mean we're going to do it when the returns are right and in a much more conservative way than we've done in the past.
We believe that the growth rate in the industry needs to slow and that's what we're doing.
Okay.
So Micky if I read you correctly right now you'll be holding off to see how the near-term demand picture meaning over the next 6 months a year develops before you actually commit to anything? I don't want to say that it has anything to do with near-term demand because these are long-term decisions.
These are 3- to 4-year delivery and then 30-year assets.
So I would say that our strategy hasn't changed.
We're talking 2 to 3 ships a year.
There's nothing imminent.
We've just recently announced a Carnival Cruise Line newbuilding and a Holland newbuilding and we have nothing imminent right now other than what we recently announced.
And for the years you're talking about '16 '17 and beyond we have plenty of time so we don't have to make decisions today.
We can do that at some point in the future.
And our next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I think we've exhausted just about everything.
But just to be fair to you guys I mean it does sound like this is really a short-term booking issue and that given what you're seeing right now it's hard to really give much guidance beyond what you've provided.
So am I reading that correctly? I think you said it earlier Howard just about this is the time of year you give the 2013 and this is what you're dealing with at this time.
I mean it certainly is more challenging to give guidance for 2013 because of the closer-in booking pattern that we're seeing and it -- so there's sort of a wider span of where this -- how this could all play out than in past years when we had a longer-term -- we had a longer booking pattern.
So it's more of a challenge.
There's more estimating here and we think we've factored in reasonable estimates.
And as I said before if we do better that would be great and if we -- but it does -- there are no guarantees.
These are just our best estimates.
Clearly 3 or 4 weeks into wave season you have better sense of where you're going so...
And we have a question from the line of Rick Lyall with John W.
Bristol.
Inc.</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first is the fuel efficiency.
5% is a good number.
I think it's much stronger than a 2% to 3% kind of number you were guiding to over the last several years and some of that is itinerary-driven.
How much further do you have on the itinerary runway to realize fuel efficiency versus other operational improvements? It's funny because each itinerary is modeled you make these decisions based on certain price levels of fuel and so you're willing to give up x amount of yield for y amount of fuel savings when fuel is at one price and a different decision based on another price.
So it's hard to tell.
I think our brands were very aggressive this year to get the fuel cost down and took some yield risk to do it and I'm sure that's baked into their forecasts.
And we firmly supported those decisions and there is some additional risk to it on the yield side.
But we believe that profitability-wise it's the right decision.
To go beyond -- a lot of these discussions are longer than 1-year term.
And so I believe that we will see significant fuel savings in '14 as well.
But whether it will reach this kind of level or not I don't know.
Historically we've been at the 2% to 3% range a little bit more.
And -- anyway we pushed hard this year and I suspect we will continue to see some savings in '14.
And new ships more efficient ships will drive some of the metric as well plus retrofitting ships with new technologies are also drivers.
It's a combination of things that are driving the 5%.
About half of it has been -- about half or a little bit more than half next year is itinerary-driven.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Second question and this is a very long-term question.
What do you think the global balance of your capacity should be? How much should be in Asia? How much should be in exotics? How much should be in Europe? How much in the U.S.? I don't think you really know the answer to that question because as we all look at the Asian markets as a new market and potentially a strong market for us it's going to take a while to build it and to get the visibility for cruise vacations in those markets.
Over time look I mean Asia it should be no different why Asia is any different than Europe and the U.S.
So you can see a relative -- but over the long term you can see a relative equal balance.
But it can take a long time to get there.
I'm talking over the...
This is the kind of thing that we're tweaking all the time.
We're always working on the margin.
I mean yesterday Carnival Cruise Lines announced a ship being moved from the East Coast to the West Coast because of demand cycles in Canaveral versus Long Beach.
So you're looking at this -- management is looking at this stuff every day and looking towards '14 and '15 and where their brands should be relative to where they are now.
But with a 2-year decision time horizon as Howard said this will take time to balance out.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to you.
Well thank you very much for the good questions and the tough questions and we want to wish -- take this moment to wish everybody a happy and healthy holiday season and new year and we look forward to seeing you in the new year.
All the best.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
Happy New Year...
Thank you.
Happy holidays.
Happy holidays.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Carnival First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Friday March 15 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Suzie.
Good morning everyone.
First apologies for the short notice on this call.
We did -- I think in light of recent ship incident events we wanted to connect up to our investment -- the investment community as soon as possible.
So we put out the press release and we announced the call rather quickly and we wanted to get the information out there and to make sure everybody's up to date on the impact the potential impact of these events on our business.
With me this morning is Micky Arison our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; David Bernstein our Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations along with me.
And to start off the call I'll have David take you through the first quarter and then he'll send it back to me and I'll have some comments on the outlook for 2013 and also make a few comments about the recent ship incidents.
David? Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this conference call will be forward looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statements in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currencies unless otherwise noted as this is a much more useful measure of business trends.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the first quarter was $0.08 per share.
The first quarter came in $0.03 above the midpoint of our December guidance despite a $0.02 impact from voyage disruptions and related repair costs which Howard will discuss later in his comments.
The improvement was primarily driven by lower net cruise costs without fuel worth $0.04 a share as a result of the timing for certain expenses primarily between the first and second quarter.
Now let's take a look at the first quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 3.9%.
The North American brands were up 3.1% while the Europe Australia and Asia brands or as we call them our EAA brands were up 5.1% driven by a 17% increase in AIDA.
Our total net revenue yields in the first quarter declined 2.3% from last year's strong pre-Concordia yields that were up almost 3%.
Now let's take a look at the 2 components of net revenue yields.
Our net ticket yields declined 3.3%.
Our EAA brands were down 5.8% driven by declines in European South American itineraries that were partially offset by increases in Caribbean itineraries.
The North American brands were down only 1.5% with 2/3 of their capacity in the Caribbean during the first quarter.
For net onboard and other yields the increase was 1% with increases in the North American brands that were partially offset by declines in the EAA brands driven by Costa.
On the cost side net cruise costs per available lower berth day excluding fuel were down 3% versus the prior year.
The decline was more than we expected in our December guidance.
As I have said in the past it's difficult to estimate the timing of many of the expenses by quarter.
And therefore the best measure of net cruise cost performance is on an annual basis.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption for ALBD declined almost 5% this quarter consistent with our full year guidance.
Something I don't often get to say fuel prices this quarter were down over 4% versus the prior year which saved us $0.03 per share.
In summary the first quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.06 higher than 2012 earnings of $0.02 per share.
This was driven by lower net cruise costs partially offset by lower net revenue yields.
Now turning to our 2013 outlook.
I will skip net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
For the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD are forecasted to be up 2.5% to 3.5% versus the prior year.
This is about 1 percentage point higher than our December guidance driven by the voyage disruptions and related repair costs as well as additional expenses related to certain vessel enhancements to the remainder of the fleet that Howard will expand upon.
At this point I will turn the call back over to Howard.
Thank you David.
I will have comments later in my talk about the Triumph incident.
But let me first start by bringing you up-to-date on wave bookings.
This is based on the 9 weeks of booking activity from the 6th of January through March 10 the latest booking data we have.
On a fleet-wide basis bookings during the wave period have been running well ahead of last year and this includes Costa's bookings which are also significantly higher year-over-year.
But even taking Costa's bookings out of the data bookings for the rest of the fleet have still been running well ahead year-on-year.
Fleet-wide pricing on wave bookings is slightly ahead year-over-year with and without Costa in the mix.
Breaking this down by major markets North America bookings have been running higher during this period with slightly higher pricing.
EAA bookings are substantially higher with or without Costa in the mix at slightly lower pricing.
While the significantly higher EAA booking volumes are very encouraging as I will comment on later with the exception of Costa we are still well behind in EAA bookings for the remainder of the year at the present time.
We have also gathered booking data since the Triumph incident which covers the last 3 weeks through March 10.
On a fleet-wide basis taking Carnival Cruise Lines out of the mix which I will comment on separately booking volumes have continued to run significantly higher year-over-year.
North America brand booking volumes continued to run higher although lower than for the period prior to the Triumph incident with pricing higher year-over-year.
EAA booking volumes continue to be very strong year-over-year with pricing running higher during this 3-week period.
Please keep in mind that we consider this latest 3 weeks of booking data as anecdotal but we've decided to provide the information in anticipation of questions about booking trends after the incident.
For the Carnival Cruise Lines brand booking volumes and pricing for the period of the wave prior to the incident were running nicely higher year-over-year.
However our booking volumes for the 3-week period after the event were lower.
However with Carnival's introduction of new marketing promotions in recent weeks the market has responded positively and booking volumes have significantly recovered.
We expect Carnival's bookings to continue to improve and normalize over the next several weeks.
It's difficult to estimate the impact that the recent Carnival Dream event will have on bookings.
Normally a short or intermittent power outage in port would not have received media attention.
However given the media coverage of the event it may have some effect on bookings and we have factored that into our revenue yield and earnings guidance.
Based on the foregoing trends in the booking patterns we have lowered constant currency revenue yield estimates for the remainder -- or for the year by 1.5%.
As indicated in the press release first quarter yields came in as expected.
For the remainder of the year continued softness in European brand pricing is driving some of the forecasted lower revenue yield outlook.
Other contributing factors include slightly lower revenue yields for the Carnival Cruise Lines brand resulting from current and anticipated price promotions.
We have also reduced forecasted fleet-wide onboard revenue for the remainder of the year.
Turning to the current booking status for the remaining 3 quarters on a fleet-wide basis.
Bookings are behind last year at slightly lower pricing.
North American brands bookings are behind at slightly higher pricing.
For EAA brands bookings are behind at lower pricing.
On a quarter-by-quarter basis the trends are also quite similar so you won't see much difference if we provided -- if we broke down this information by the second third and fourth quarter which we will not do on this call.
Breaking this down by major programs.
For North American brands pricing for Caribbean and Alaska programs is slightly higher year-over-year on lower occupancies.
Pricing for North America premium brand the European cruises is higher at slightly higher year-over-year occupancies.
For EAA brands the European cruises which are the great majority of their itineraries for the next 3 quarters pricing and occupancies are lower year-over-year.
It's clear that continued softness in European economies and lower consumer confidence throughout Europe is the primary contributor to the closer-in booking pattern and lower prices we are experiencing.
However as previously said we are experiencing a significant uptick in European brand bookings which is a very encouraging sign.
Based on our latest forecast on a fleet-wide basis we are expecting revenue yields in the second quarter to be down slightly and for the second half of the year to be slightly higher.
Full year earnings guidance has been revised to a range of $1.80 to $2.10 per share or a midpoint of $1.95.
The $0.35 per share reduction from our original December guidance is comprised of $0.10 of costs for the Triumph incident including repair costs and estimated revenue loss from canceled sailings.
Reduced fleet-wide ticket forecast for the remaining 3 quarters contributed $0.14 of the decline approximately half of the revenue yield reductions for Europe brands and half for North American brands including Carnival.
We've also reduced our onboard revenue yield forecast by $0.06 and we have added $0.05 per share for costs associated with modifications to ships this year to enhance ship operating system redundancies and improve emergency power.
We also expect this work to continue on the fleet through 2014.
A few comments about the Carnival Triumph incident that I want to make.
Although there are many lessons to be learned from the incident it is important to understand that our fire suppression systems did work and our crew did a superb job.
The ship systems and crew were able to quickly respond to the fire and extinguish it so there were no injuries to either passengers or crew.
Although our emergency generator power was not adequate to provide effective passenger comfort the emergency systems we had on board are in accordance with and in fact go beyond the latest regulatory guidelines.
But having said that we will make the changes necessary to provide even greater redundancies to our shipboard systems and in the event of a loss of power to increase the emergency generator power to provide a more effective level of comfort to the passengers and crew on the ship.
An assessment of shipboard redundancies and emergency generator power will be carried out on a corporate-wide basis for our entire fleet.
And accordingly enhancements will be implemented on all ships in the fleet.
In this regard our Corporate Maritime Policy Department together with the maritime executives at the brands have already made preliminary assessments of the ships in the fleet and plans are under way to make the appropriate modifications.
This project of course will take some time to complete.
But I want to assure you that we will address these issues as quickly as feasibly possible.
Having said all this I want to emphatically state that all the ships in our fleet are safe and the work we are planning will add further enhancements to the safety systems already in place.
Given all the misconceptions about the causes of the Triumph incident let me make it perfectly clear.
Our ships are built not just in compliance with regulations whether IMO whatever [ph]  classification society but in many instances go beyond regulatory requirements.
Our corporate and brand management teams will continue to focus on ship safety as their first priority.
And with that Suzie I'm going to turn it back to you to take questions so we get some -- take some questions from the listeners.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question coming from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> You did mention that your guidance does anticipate some impact from the Dream but I wanted to talk more about just specific costs that you might have.
You kind of just walked us through the detail behind your earnings.
I'm just wondering specifically is there anything in there for -- the Dream is going to be out of service a little bit.
Anything in there? Today there was the incident with the Legend.
And then also given these 3 events in such a short time period just wondering what the cost -- incremental cost impact might be from your marketing and your promotional activities and more broadly how we should think about your marketing budget over the next 12 months.
You want to take the costs? Well the -- I'll take the first part in the costs on the Dream and also the Carnival Legend.
We have factored in the costs of the Dream being out of service.
They did refund a portion of this cruise and they also canceled one cruise.
That is in our numbers.
And as far as the Legend is concerned they're very hopeful that it will sail its normal itinerary at -- on its next itinerary next week.
And sales and marketing? I mean I think sales and marketing I don't think we're going to see a huge increment any significant increment in sales and marketing that will not be usually absorbed in the numbers that we have already budgeted or forecasted for sales and marketing costs in what we gave you.
I do think that there will be a price promotions but -- that we are using as part of the marketing programs.
And -- but that has been factored into the revenue yield forecast that we gave you.
So we think we've got the expense side of the ledger covered fairly easily right now.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for both of you I guess.
Just on maintenance CapEx I think it's been running around $700 million $750 million.
Is that a number that we should see increase? Well we've said a number of times in the past that historically our maintenance CapEx had been in the $400 million $500 million range and that we were increasing it.
It was up more recently like $600-plus million.
And all the forecasts we've been giving you have been $800-plus million.
And we were trying to factor in all the refurbishments and all of the things that we need to do to keep the ships up to date so...
But there will be some incremental capital expenditures as we make these enhancements to the -- whatever enhancements need to be made to the redundancy -- increased redundancy and for the expanded emergency generation power.
I don't think we really have our arms around that number yet.
That's what we're working on to get.
And hopefully in the next couple of weeks we'll have a full plan with estimated costs to doing all this work.
But I don't see it as being enormous but it will be some amount of money.
And it will be probably incurred in the next -- during the next 2 years '13 and '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to understand David you said the maintenance CapEx has  more recently been running around $600 million but you've been giving us a number around $800 million? Yes $800-plus million has been included in all future CapEx numbers that we've been giving you for probably the past year or so now.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is it possible that that kind of absorbs maybe the incremental costs you might see from refurbishing your fleet or will it be incremental over that? There might -- as Howard indicated there might be some incremental that we might spend but it should be manageable.
I know we got a lot of [indiscernible] work I think.
So it should...
We get [indiscernible].
Most of it I would imagine...
$800 million number had a lot of cushion in there.
So we should be fine yes.
Yes.
Our next question coming from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Of the $800 million that you mentioned how much of that is pure refurbishment or pure maintenance CapEx versus sort of incremental refurbishment? What I'm trying to get at is in other industries that we look at we look at maintenance CapEx as a percentage of revenues to capture kind of the utilization.
And given your high occupancy you're pushing these assets really hard.
And so what I'm trying to get at is as a percentage of revenues are you spending as much on these ships as you did 10 years ago? Yes we were spending more.
Yes.
As Micky's saying we're clearly spending more.
But it's hard to look as a percentage of revenue.
Unfortunately our yields are down since 2008.
But overall on a per berth basis we recognize that the fleet has gotten a little bit older than it was 10 or 15 years ago and we are spending more to properly maintain it.
We don't have the details split between refurbishment and other types of maintenance.
We -- these are very high-level numbers that we've worked with our various operating companies to put together.
And each year we put together very detailed plans so...
I mean much of the maintenance cost is period expensed even in the dry docks so we don't capitalize that.
We only capitalize improvements that we make to the ship as part of a dry dock.
I don't -- I think most of it is all these other items.
But the maintenance work is an expense item.
Yes we don't even capitalize the dry dock.
We...
No.
That's -- it's all   expensed.
Yes.
So that answers your question.
[Indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> And the...
Yes sorry.
Research Division</strong> Well the follow-up is if you could give us some sense of how many more days in dry dock you built into your forecast this year and next.
And how does that compare to the last 2 to 3 years? Hang on one second.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes whatever you have...
Research Division</strong> I guess where I'm going with this is...
Yes.
No...
Research Division</strong> Where I'm going with this...
Yes but current...
Okay but you're talking about incremental dry docks as a result of the additional work? Or is this planned dry docks that we already have in place? Research Division</strong> What I'm trying to get at is planned dry docks how that's likely to grow in 2013 and 2014.
Yes.
We don't -- we haven't -- we don't have the '14 and beyond schedule here.
The dry dock days between '13 -- '12 and '13 I mean our ships go into dry dock on a very routine basis on schedules either twice every 5 years or once every 3 years.
There's different rules we follow.
So it's scheduled out and we'll keep looking at that and taking into consideration the enhancements that Howard had indicated.
We'll make changes as necessary.
There may be a few additional changes this year but we don't know for sure yet because as Howard said we're not done with the overall plans.
See a lot of this additional work that we will carry out will depend on a number of factors that we don't necessarily have control of including the availability of dry dock space in the various dry docks around the world and the logistics of if equipment and -- needs to be made -- new equipment needs to be made the manufacturer of that equipment as well as the installation of that equipment by the teams that do this sort of stuff.
So -- and we still don't have a full story on that.
So we'll -- as soon as we get it we'll probably start -- we'll start to share that with people and we don't have our arms around it yet.
And at this stage we don't even know what work can be done in service versus what needs to be dry docked.
I mean it's just too early.
Yes.
To give you an idea in 2013 we had 425 dry dock days planned in our overall guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the last question is based on your maintenance CapEx estimate what you've built in for dry dock you're pretty comfortable that there's plenty of room there for whatever else may happen to your fleet? Actually what I said is that we -- as soon as we get -- when we get to put the plan in -- the fleet-wide plan into effect we'll have a better handle on what that amount is and know to what extent we've covered that in the $800 million.
And one -- and the $0.05 that Howard mentioned the vessel enhancements that -- we did our best to represent on a very preliminary basis what we think it could be for 2013.
But it is very preliminary.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll wait.
While I've got you on the call here let me just say for future questions can we limit it to 2? I know there are a lot of people out there that want to have questions so let's limit the questions to 2.
And at the end if there are more questions we can take them.
People want to have third questions.
Our next question coming from the line of Steve Wieczynski with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Brad in for Steve.
You called out some onboard softness as -- in your revised guidance.
I just wanted to see if you were seeing that in any particular areas or if it was sort of widespread across all the onboard categories.
Well what we actually said is that we expected -- we still expect onboards to be up this year just not as much as we had anticipated in the December guidance.
We saw the onboards were only up 1% in the first quarter.
And so as a result we just took down the second third and fourth quarter a little bit from previous guidance.
But all the major categories are still expected to be up for the year just not as much as we had previously anticipated.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then second one I couldn't help but notice that the guidance range is still at $0.30 the spread there.
Just curious if you can give us some color as to kind of what gets you to $2.10 versus $1.80 and that's it for me.
Yes I think it's just a function of the yield guidance primarily.
And given the uncertainty -- the economic uncertainty in Europe and all recent events we thought the $0.30 range was appropriate.
Our next question coming from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> My 2 questions are: How aggressive do you think you'll need to be over the next few weeks the next few months in terms of pricing to encourage bookings? And have any of your competitors responded so far? What tends to happen during waves period is everybody is kind of on sale in some form or another to encourage sales during wave.
And just like past years all of our competitors have been on sale as we have so it's really hard to tell whether there's a response or not.
I would say that we're encouraged that based on the fact that when Carnival Cruise Line did put price promotions in effect that the response was good.
And I don't have yesterday's data but for the week this week through Wednesday Carnival Cruise Line booking levels were actually up 25% versus last year.
Now that was in response to a promotion but we're not anticipating that the promotions will be much deeper than they were last year.
Our next question coming from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Howard and everyone thanks for the color that you can give us on the outlook with the ships but any quantification at this point or number of ships that will require major impact? You said you're reviewing the whole fleet.
But any color especially in the Carnival and the Costa brands? I mean I think Tim I prefer to have it all in front of me in a comprehensive way.
I'll have a better sense of it.
Our sense is that we're going to pull that together in the next couple of weeks and I'd rather provide it when I know exactly what it's going to be.
There are a number different ways also to make the modifications and it really depends on how they select the modifications to be made on the ships that will determine the costs associated with it.
So let's see what they come up with first.
I don't want to jump ahead of it.
I did mention that the Carnival ship that was affected the Triumph there are a number of ships like that in the fleet and so that will probably be dealt with first.
But there may be -- and -- but there may be some other lesser modifications that we may have to make in the rest of the fleet.
We'll see how that goes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you have a little bit more color in the next several weeks do you anticipate doing another update type of call at that point in time? If we have something to say we'll...
Yes if we have something -- I think if there's something material to say we'll say it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Shifting to my -- for my second question shifting to another question here on Europe.
Comparing to your commentary that you gave in December can you maybe -- can you give us a little bit more color on the U.K.
Germany and then Italy and the southern issues I guess for the overall continent? Well in the U.K.
and as well as in Germany beginning last year we started to see a fallback in bookings so that the booking curves started to come closer in.
We didn't move pricing all that much thinking that the bookings would come in later that -- especially bookings that [indiscernible] the spring and summer early fall.
And that's -- and while the bookings have improved in those 2 countries we're still seeing that.
So -- and price -- pricing actions were taken in order to maintain some relative -- full occupancies on the ships.
So that caused some of the dislocation.
We still see that.
But we are -- as I mentioned on the call on my comments that more recently we've seen a dramatic catch-up on bookings.
Now whether we can catch up fully quickly enough is another question to maintain better pricing as we get closer to the departure -- ship's departure.
I think we did say on a prior call that because of the closer-in booking pattern in Europe that was making forecasting European yields much more difficult.
Costa's bookings which is -- primarily covers Italy France Germany and Spain they were more -- their strategy was to get out ahead of this a little bit.
And so their occupancies are more or less I think in line with the prior year and maybe starting to pull ahead so that it -- there's a potential that they may be able to start to move pricing up.
So they're in a little bit better shape relative to the -- from a booking curve standpoint relative to the rest of the group.
But we're also struggling to be honest with you with the uncertainties in Italy right now which is their major -- most significant market.
But the Costa brand I must say they haven't lost market share in Italy.
They're doing -- they maintained it maybe even increased market share this past year.
So the business is getting back on track.
We're very encouraged by what we see from the Costa organization.
And certainly we've seen a significant rise in perceptions about the brand in Italy and Europe and so we're starting to see a recovery happen.
Probably we'd like to see the recovery happen faster in terms of pricing and -- but we haven't and that we'd have -- we will have pricing improvement this year perhaps not as much as we originally thought and that's one of the factors that took down some pricing for our European brand forecast on revenue yields for the remainder of the year.
Clearly the uncertainty is really -- isn't helping.
With the situation with the government basically in a stalemate that's not helping either.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And we had anticipated the tough economic environment in December but it's just turning out to be a little tougher than we had thought.
And Spain continues to be a challenge.
But fortunately for us in Spain we only have a -- we have a small Spanish cruise line the Ibero as you know.
And actually they're going to do better this year we think than they did last year.
We've got -- so it is a small cruise line and we're finding ways to source business from countries outside of Spain to help fill the ships.
So with Michael Thamm there he's changed around the sourcing strategies so that we're hopeful that that will start to change around quickly the Spanish side.
LLC Research Division</strong> So David your comment that -- Europe tougher than thought collectively or Italy? Was that David that -- the comment that you made there? I think it was probably Southern Europe in general was tougher than we thought.
But I think overall it was a bit tougher than we thought.
Our next question coming from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted to get a little more color.
I know you talked about the change in yield being half due to European demand and half due to the Carnival brand.
And so just when you're looking at your yield guidance for the second half of the year you have that positive.
Can you give us a little color on what your assumptions are for -- does the Carnival brand turn positive in the second half of the year? And then also when you look at Europe is -- are the European sourcing brands positive in the second half of the year kind of with without Costa? Or is the positive in the second half of the year all just the strength of North American brands outside of the Carnival brand that is offsetting the declines? So I'm just trying to get a sense of what those pieces look like in the second half.
Okay.
If you...
I don't know what David's about to say but I hesitate to get into a brand-by-brand discussion of yields.
I mean clearly Costa we see Costa as having a positive year-over-year yield improvement and the rest of the European brands having lower year-over-year improvement lower year-over-year yields.
Yes the yields for the back half in total are within our guidance are expected to be up.
We are expecting to see both North America and EAA up which -- but I will say that -- we have continued to say that EAA without Costa is a challenge because of the economic environment and the EAA yields without Costa probably will be down a tad for the back half of the year.
Our next question coming from the line of Alexia Dogani with Liberum.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions as well.
Just firstly then just the maintenance CapEx spend of the $700 million to $800 million.
I mean I know that question perhaps has been asked but I want to explore it in a different way.
Can you split the spend between the hotel aspects? So how much you invest to bring the product up to the new ship and the core operational elements? And following on from that the $0.05 of the maintenance cost increase this year you said this will continue for the next 2 years.
So year 3 should we expect that sort of spend to disappear if you like? And then my second question is whether you can give us a bit of a feel on how emerging markets are performing and what percent of your capacity is allocated in 2013 and what trends you're seeing there both from the revenue and the cost side.
That's more than 2 questions by the way.
I think David said already that the $800 million is a top line number.
We don't do the detailed analysis of that until we get through the budget cycle.
So that is just a kind of over-the-top number.
And it includes...
But I would like to reiterate Howard's earlier comment that a lot of our R&amp;M goes through operating expense since we do heavy refurbishment when the ship is in service.
That is a big percentage of ship operating costs.
Yes.
And as far as the $0.05 is concerned it was simply our preliminary best guess of additional expense this year.
We don't have the plan as Howard mentioned for the -- all of the ships.
Once we have that we'll have a much better idea what kind of P&amp;L impact.
But I think it's fair to say that the majority of what we expect to spend will be capital.
And give us some time to put that together.
And if we have something material let's say we will announce it once we get it.
I mean to some degree if we're -- well we accelerate dry dock work in order to get work done more quickly.
In a way it's just moving expense a little bit earlier and saving on it later on because it'll be the timing of the dry dock.
A dry dock on a ship that we might otherwise do in 2015 if we move it up to 2013 because it works in terms of the availability of the dock and the equipment we need we'll just -- we won't have to do that dry dock in 2015.
We'll have already done it in -- so there's a little bit of a movement of expenses and the timing of expenses that's going to happen in the next couple of years.
And I think to try to give you a sense as to what's going to carry over from year-to-year very difficult right now which it's all very preliminary.
And your question on the emerging market sourcing.
Basically looking outside of North America and Western Europe the emerging markets are about 14% of our guest source.
And overall we're very pleased and it's doing very well around the world all of those markets.
Our next question coming from the line of Lena Thakkar with HSBC.
Research Division</strong> I understand the comments around Costa.
I just wanted to get a feel of given everything that's been said on the $0.10 impact from the Triumph and some of the one-offs that you outlined at the previous set of results should we be thinking of net cruise costs actually going down next year all things being equal from here? Or is there anything else that we should be aware of going into the next financial year? And then just on the revenue guidance I know you can't break it down by brand but I wonder if you could tell us that your -- if your guidance still factors in positive yields in North America x Carnival.
Well the answer to the second question is yes it does factor in all yields positive and negative for the brands.
So yes I mean the revenue guidance has everything in it.
In terms of costs going down in 2014 I think it's too early to say.
I don't -- I think we -- as I mentioned before we really need to get the plan in place to understand it better and the associated costs connected with the plan for all of the ship work we're going to be doing and then we'll have a better sense as to when it's going to happen.
But my guess is we're going to see costs like this occur because this work is going to be carried out mostly in 2013 and 2014.
So I really don't see that aspect of our cost going down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to follow up on the yield question.
I guess the question is more getting at have the recent issues caused an impact on just the Carnival brand or all of the North American brands.
So is this isolated to one brand? And therefore does the guidance still assume yields up for everything else apart from Carnival and North America? Well the -- we did see that what -- during the period of the incident itself and for a week or 2 thereafter we saw a little bit of some of the other brands felt a little bit of a hiccup I would call it but not a major issue.
And then it seems to have -- now things seem to be back on track.
So then I hope that answers your question.
But in terms of giving you specific guidance by brands no we're not prepared to do that.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit about how you might change your kind of marketing message to comfort consumers maybe? And then also I know you guys didn't offer any information on the immediate impact the week after the Triumph but if you have any color on kind of the magnitude of impact on bookings I know they've bounced back that would be helpful.
Look I think from the standpoint of marketing they are making some modifications to their messaging and communications right now.
I think the issue of safety and -- onboard the ships is more -- is less of a marketing issue but it's more of a communications and public relations issue.
And clearly we've got advisors who are working with us on the -- on putting out the positive messages about the actions we're going to be taking to strengthen these areas of the ships and to improve -- further enhance safety and so on.
And I think those messages will be going out from Carnival Cruise Lines over the next couple of months.
But they are -- my understanding is they are conducting consumer research right now to try to address the messaging appropriately.
Yes I think what's important to understand is that -- is the millions of people who come off the ship happy is our best marketing source.
And Carnival Cruise Lines has millions literally millions of people coming off the ships every year very very happy.
And 2/3 of the people are repeat passengers who understand how safe and how comfortable the product is and we expect them to continue to book.
And the last few weeks have been great examples of how strong Carnival Cruise Lines brand is.
The repeat passengers particularly understand when a good promotion is put in place and they jump on it and have a lot of confidence in the brand.
And clearly we saw that in the last 2 weeks.
And hopefully once the dust settles here we'll see it again.
Research Division</strong> And then any comment on that immediate impact like the week after the Triumph? Or do you not want to speak to that? Well we clearly felt an impact on Carnival Cruise Lines sure.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Any magnitude that you'd like to offer? Not really.
And I don't even know that.
I don't even know where you got that particularly week and...
Yes...
It's all there in front of us.
But I mean it was...
I mean it wasn't at all -- let me put it this way.
It wasn't anything like we've had in the past September 11 or other issues.
We had nothing like that.
It wasn't -- we didn't go negative plus we didn't have lots of cancellations.
Yes okay.
But we had a double-digit decline in bookings.
Somebody signaled us it was double digit.
We had a double-digit decline.
That can go anywhere from...
But it wasn't huge and it didn't last very long.
The remarkable thing is the resiliency of this brand so that when -- it is amazing.
So even with all of this negative media coverage it still booked a lot of business.
And it will continue to book a lot of business.
I think people understand the value of a Carnival vacation the great vacations they have and that these things occasionally will happen.
And so as Micky said our repeat passengers are still booking a lot of business.
So we're okay.
I mean it wasn't a dramatic -- if we told you the number it will be a whole lot less than you think it is.
But we -- we're not -- I don't have the number and probably wouldn't tell you if I had it.
It's not that dramatic.
And on the other brands it's a marginal -- we just felt it on a very marginal basis as is I -- my guess is rest of the cruise industry did.
Just to give you a sense the Triumph event affected 3 000 passengers unfortunately.
The Dream event which was a couple of hours of outages -- outage it was really -- I mean on the Dream everything's been operating fine.
We had one closed public room toilet that got a huge amount of publicity.
But last night we had -- we brought in Jon Secada to do a concert for the passengers on the Dream.
So that was 3 000 passengers.
The Dream was 4 000 passengers on a base of 4.4 million passengers that Carnival Cruise Line carries.
And they come back 98% 99% very happy.
So that -- I mean that's what's going to drive the strength of the brand.
Even on the Dream the reports we're getting back is a lot people are just fine.
It's just that -- they're just -- they're on the ship.
They're in the port.
All services are working.
I think they're enjoying St.
Maarten and will fly back today tomorrow and the next day.
There was a few hours of power outages in port on Wednesday evening.
But by midnight everything was back to normal and has been back to normal ever since.
Our next question coming from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
My first question last year following the Concordia issue your vocalized strategy seemed to be to try as much as possible to hold price and basically weather the storm on the occupancy side.
And whether or not that's exactly what happened I think the rationale was solid with the hopes to isolate the pricing fallout to the one brand.
I was hoping you could maybe could compare and contrast your strategy going forward this year Concordia versus the Triumph and the subsequent incidents pricing versus occupancy as well as sort of general marketing.
Well when we made that statement based on the publicity and the situation in Italy and obviously that was a very tragic event it was the belief that we couldn't fill the Costa ships particularly from Italy at any price.
And so there was no point in doing price promotion.
Here as I said with a price stimulus that is not significantly different than last year Carnival Cruise Lines' bookings last week for the first 3 days was up 25%.
So it's a totally different set of circumstances.
And let me just explain further.
We made that statement I think it was early March of last year.
During that period Costa was doing consumer studies to understand how people felt about the brand and cruising.
Ultimately I think it was right around the end of March where it appeared that sentiment was changing.
And Costa did then change their strategy came up with a price promotion approach.
And starting I think it was early April and throughout the rest of the year.
By the time we got to the fourth quarter Costa had essentially filled their ships.
So early on we followed and we held price as Micky said.
But later on we adapted to the environment and we filled the ships at lower prices.
Great.
And second somewhat related question given your localized brand strategy sort of big picture how many of your customers do you think actually make the connection between the brand that they use and the umbrella Carnival brand? Obviously you did a great job with Concordia last year really isolating that fallout to Costa.
Obviously the Carnival line of ships is much bigger for starters but is it going to be dramatically more difficult this year just given the brand associated with it the various issues and also the overarching company brand? I don't think so.
I think that the consumer -- from a consumer standpoint I think that they look at each brand as a brand.
I don't think they connect the overall connection at the corporate level.
So I'm sure there are some that do but I think probably a very small percentage.
But we haven't done any studies on it to be honest with you.
I mean anecdotally when I ask -- when people tell me they had a wonderful time and I ask them which ship they were on or what company half the time they don't know.
Our next question coming from the line of Assia Georgieva with Infiniti Research.
My first question is what do you expect -- any impact to your new builds in terms of price or delivery date if you do need to do redundancies on those as well? Now based on rule changes that occurred in 2010 all of this was already baked into the new builds.
Okay great.
And my second question is given how many moving parts there are to the European booking picture EAA brands x Costa and with Costa could you give us a sense as to the level of bookings for Q3 given obviously the key quarter for Europe this year versus the same time last year.
And this is with Costa with everything.
Yes I haven't -- we haven't broken it down by quarter Assia.
I think that what I said is that the overall occupancies and pricing for the 9 months is really very consistent with what we're seeing quarter-by-quarter especially for the third and fourth quarters.
The second quarter of course occupancy has caught up significantly.
But -- and -- but pricing is down a little bit in each of those quarters in Europe.
Our next question coming from the line of Jamie Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The first question.
It might be a hard one to answer because few of these get reported I guess.
But in a normal year how many ship incidents do you normally have across the [ph]  group please? Let me -- I don't think that -- I don't think we know -- I don't think I know how to answer that question.
But I will say this that in -- over the last -- we've taken a look at ship incidents that have received some relative media attention let's say over the last 10 years for our group of companies versus all other ships all other cruise lines in the world fleet.
And the relative percentage of incidents for our cruise lines is almost the same was right on point with the relative percentage of incidents of -- on other cruise lines.
So there really is no difference.
Unfortunately for us the run the last year or so or since the Concordia incident it has been a little bit higher.
But if you go back beyond that it was considerably lower.
And by the way these are the same people that have been running the same ships all these years.
The ships haven't changed.
So it's just -- sadly we've just been hit by a run here that has been very unfortunate.
And hopefully we'll get some reprieve from this going forward.
I don't know if that answers your question Jamie right on point but I don't have the data.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No I understand.
The other question was on the $0.05.
I didn't fully understand exactly what that was.
Was that your best estimates of the sort of revenue costs of the safety review? Or does it include any lost revenue from more time in dry dock? And I got the impression that number could go up a fair amount depending on the review.
Is that correct? Well it's a preliminary number.
And it tried to cover I'll say lost profit if we have to move a ship into dry dock early as well as any R&amp;M -- additional R&amp;M expense associated with the dry dock.
It's a very preliminary number.
It could move up or down.
And if it's materially different we would let you guys know.
But at this point it's our best guess.
Research Division</strong> And just as an ancillary to that if I may.
Is there a figure you could possibly give us for what you spend on sort of safety spend or safety checks whether it's dry docks repairs and maintenance.
What's the annual sort of budget for that please? Well I don't think we found that one.
We -- I don't have all that detail with me but there's millions and millions of dollars spent on those types of things as we go through whether it be capital R&amp;M work done in dry dock.
And part of our payroll is associated with that.
There's audits of the ships routine maintenance et cetera all associated with safety.
And simulators that we built and man [ph]  in Holland and in Germany the train crew on deck and engine that's in our numbers as well.
So -- and we don't...
We don't isolate the number actually.
[Indiscernible] you asking the question.
Yes.
Our next question coming from the line of James Hollins with Investec.
Research Division</strong> Oh yes 2 questions for me.
The first is on the strategy.
I've heard a bit of sort of industry chatter around Asia and I was just looking for an update that you could give on -- particularly for out of your Singapore office what the sort of demand you're seeing out of Asia whether I should be expecting sort of a more aggressive move of itinerary ships over to that market in the medium term or whether I should be waiting longer for that to happen.
Then the second one was on commission and transport costs.
Those costs per ALBD I have down at about 11% per ALBD in the quarter.
I think they've been down 10% or 11% in Q3 Q4 last year as well.
Is there something particularly going on there? Is this a level that can continue given particularly its size in your cost structure? James let me -- this is Howard.
Let me take the Asia strategy discussion that we have.
We have added a -- Costa's added a second ship this spring to increase -- double the size of their ships in China or in Southeast Asia for the coming years.
So that seems to be going quite well.
The ships are profitable.
The business is good.
The pricing is good.
And we're very encouraged.
In addition Princess has announced additional capacity to go into the Japanese part -- market.
They have one ship going that's starting to sail I think in late April in Japan that -- and then -- for I think a 90-day period.
That has done very well.
So they're adding a -- they've announced the addition of a second ship to Japan the following year.
And we continue to work on the Asia strategy and it's likely that you'll see some continued increase in capacity in Asia for us in years beyond that.
So we're very encouraged by what we see.
We think it's a -- it seems to have rooted -- starting to take real roots.
The message that cruising is a good vacation alternative for the Chinese and other Asians is coming across.
We've spent a lot of time in the Asian markets and talking at different conferences and so on.
We're getting a lot of support from all the Asian governments.
They've all been supportive of us coming in.
And not just us our competitors as well.
So we think it's a very viable end market for us in the future.
I'm going to let David talk about the commission and transportation.
Yes.
Yes the line you're looking at in the P&amp;L keep in mind it's not only commission but also transportation which is primarily our air costs associated with our air-sea guests as well as a few other things.
We have continued to see a tickdown in our air-sea mix.
And as a result of that there's less air costs.
Less guests are buying air from us overall.
That affects the number.
And the other thing that has affected the number particularly in the last 3 quarters that you mentioned has to do with the change that we had announced in the U.K.
commission structure.
So those were the -- for first quarter 2013 those were the 2 drivers that brought that number down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us any guidance on what it might be down? Obviously it depends on what level of air-sea passengers you have or what level it might be down.
I assume down for full year '13 as a whole per ALBD.
Yes.
We don't forecast that because -- well the way we look at it is we forecast on a net basis.
So the yield guidance we gave you is the revenue net of the transportation and commission costs.
And so we've looked at it at that level.
Research Division</strong> Okay I was just trying to get to sort of how aggressively sort of negative you've been on gross yield given that's coming down.
But it sounds like you won't be giving me that.
Yes.
It's baked into the yields.
So it really doesn't matter.
It's pretty consistent.
There aren't any great movements between gross and net yields as the way we describe them.
Mr.
Frank there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back to you.
Okay.
Well I think we can conclude the call right now.
And I think if there any follow-on questions Beth Roberts is around to handle them this afternoon.
And thank you all for listening in.
Apologies again for the short notice.
We'll try to give you more notice for the next call.
Thanks everybody and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday June 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and COO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Andre.
Good morning everyone.
With me this morning is Micky Arison our Chairman and CEO at least he'll be the CEO until sometime this early July; along with Arnold Donald who is also here this morning on the call.
And Arnold of course as you know from the announcement will be our CEO beginning sometime in early July.
David Bernstein and Beth Roberts are also with me as well.
And let's start this morning off with some comments by Micky in terms of the changes that have been made.
Micky? Thank you Howard.
Most of you will have seen the organizational announcement that we released this morning.
I just want to make a few brief comments to reinforce what was said in the statement.
I have decided and the board has agreed that this is a good time to split the roles of Chairman and CEO for Carnival Corp.
I'm not going anywhere.
I will remain Chairman and my plan is to continue in that role for the foreseeable future.
You can be assured that I will continue to do everything I can to add value to all our shareholders and in fact to all our stakeholders.
I am very committed to the continued success of the company and all of its brands.
I will work closely with the board and our management team to guide the next phase of our growth and I'm excited about the future.
I will continue to dedicate my experience and my energy to it.
I've been discussing this with the board for some time now and we have had a robust transition plan in place with a deep bench of excellent internal executives in our brands and corporate functions plus a very strong group of individuals on our board.
So we were well positioned to make this decision.
We announced today that our board member Arnold Donald will become CEO starting next month.
I believe Arnold is the best person for this job.
He has been an asset to the -- he will be an asset to the future of this organization and I'm very pleased that he's agreed to take on this role and will drive the company to the next level.
Howard our Vice Chairman and COO will continue in that role.
He will continue to bring his many years of experience to the operation of the company and he and I will work closely with Arnold to generate the growth and performance that everyone expects from our company.
As stated in our release Arnold's experience qualifications make him well suited for the CEO role.
He has a unique combination of board-level knowledge of our company and personal experience building and leading successful businesses.
I know he will be successful in his new role as CEO.
Many of you will have a chance to meet him in the coming weeks and months.
And I'd like to invite Arnold to make a few statements.
Thank you Micky and good morning everyone.
As you all know Micky is a great leader and in collaboration with Howard you've witnessed him build with his team the largest and most successful leisure travel business in the world.
And I'm personally honored and I'm very enthused to have the opportunity to join and operationally lead the team here at Carnival in our next stage of growth.
My experiences in operating businesses and as a board member certainly gives me the appreciation that it will be very necessary for me to spend some time getting into much greater depth on the company's operations finance marketing and strategy but I am optimistic for an accelerated onboarding process and being able to make a contribution as CEO relatively quickly thanks to having the advantage of some level of understanding of the company from my governance role in many years of close observation.
I know a lot of the key people in this organization well having seen them present at board meetings and other reviews for board members and having spent time with them personally concerning their roles and their points of view.
Those experiences give me strong confidence that Carnival Corporation &amp; plc has a great team excellent fundamentals as a business a very bright future and we are well equipped to address over time any challenges facing our industry.
I'm looking forward to helping -- to more profitably consistently deliver on our promise of an exceptional joyful vacation experience at a great value as perceived by our 10 million plus passengers yearly reinforcing our company's strength expanding globally the appeal of our Carnival lines and over time driving our return of invested capital at higher levels.
I'm very much looking forward to meeting with our investors our policymakers our business partners around the world in the next several months and I want to assure you that I expect to be accountable that I believe as the current management team does in transparency and responsiveness when it comes to important relationships our company has.
And I'm very much again looking forward for the chance to meet with you over time.
I'm fully committed to creating value for our investors and all the stakeholders that Carnival serves and I'm very eager to start in the next few days.
Thank you.
Thank you Arnold.
This is Howard again.
Let me -- let's go back to the usual format and David will take you through the color for the second quarter.
David? Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that as some of our remarks on this conference call will be forward looking I will refer you to the cautionary statements in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currencies unless otherwise noted as this is a much more useful measure of business trends.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the second quarter was $0.09 per share.
The second quarter came in $0.03 above the midpoint of our May guidance driven primarily by the timing of SG&amp;A expenses between second quarter and the remainder of the year.
Now let's look at our second quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 1%.
The Europe Australia and Asia brands known as our EAA brands were up 4.6% driven by increases in AIDA and Costa while our North American brands were down 1% as a result of more dry-dock days in the second quarter compared to the prior year.
Our total net revenue yields in the second quarter declined almost 2%.
Now let's look at the 2 components of net revenue yields.
Our net ticket yields declined 2.7%.
Our EAA brands were down 3.8% driven by declines in Northern European brands partially offset by increases at Costa and P&amp;O Cruises Australia.
The North American brands were down 1.8% driven primarily by promotional discounting at Carnival Cruise Lines.
Net onboard and other yields increased 0.5%.
The small increase in net onboard and other yields that we saw in the first quarter continued in the second quarter.
On the cost side net cruise cost per available lower berth day excluding fuel were up almost 9% versus the prior year.
This increase was slightly less than we expected in our May guidance.
The 9% increase from last year was driven by Carnival Triumph's repair costs non-recurrence of last year's one-time litigation and other settlements incremental insurance costs and more dry-dock days compared to the prior year.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption for available lower berth day declined almost 6% this quarter which is much more than we had anticipated earlier in the year and saved us $0.05 per share versus the prior year.
Fuel savings this quarter -- fuel prices this quarter were down almost 10% versus the prior year which saved us an additional $0.08 per share.
In summary the second quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.11 lower than 2012 earnings of $0.20 per share driven by higher net cruise costs without fuel lower net revenue yields which were partially offset by lower fuel expenses.
During the second quarter we took the opportunity to increase our fuel derivative coverage.
We now have 0 cost collars to protect our P&amp;L against fuel price spikes for about 40% of our consumption for the remainder of 2013 through 2016 and 25% for 2017.
In addition during the second quarter we also took the opportunity to narrow the foreign sealing bands on a few of our outstanding collars.
In our earnings press release you can see the complete list of our current derivative position for each year.
Now turning to our 2013 outlook.
I will skip the net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
For the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel for ALBD are forecasted to be up 3.5% to 4.5% versus the prior year.
This is the same as our interim May guidance about 1 percentage point higher than our March guidance driven by increased selling and administrative expenses as certain of our brands expect to increase their marketing spend in the back half of 2013.
On a final note for 2013 at the midpoint of our guidance range we expect our cash from operations to be $2.7 billion and our net capital investment is forecasted to be $2.1 billion.
At $0.25 per share our regular quarterly dividend represents $775 million of cash being returned to shareholders on an annual basis.
Therefore we expect that cash from operations will cover substantially all of our CapEx and our regular quarterly dividend.
At this point I will turn the call back over to Howard.
Thank you David.
I will comment separately on the call about the progress we made at Carnival Cruise Lines and Costa Cruises but first let me bring you up to date on the last 11 weeks of bookings since the end of March.
For this discussion I've taken Carnival Cruise Lines' bookings information out of the mix which I'll also comment on separately.
All of the pricing information I will be discussing is using constant currencies.
Fleet-wide bookings during the last 11 weeks from the end of March covering the next 3 quarters are running higher year-over-year at higher prices and as I said this excludes Carnival.
The North American brands' bookings and pricing during this 11-week period are higher.
And for EAA brands bookings and pricing are also higher versus the prior year.
We see the EAA booking pattern as a particularly encouraging sign especially given the continued softness in European economies.
Our Carnival Cruise Lines' bookings and pricing over the last 11 weeks are both lower year-over-year in a high-single-digits low-double-digits range respectively.
During the last 6 weeks there has been a gradual improvement in Carnival's booking volumes and pricing and we are hopeful that this trend will continue.
With the successful reintroduction of the Carnival Triumph in Galveston 2 weeks ago we believe this will serve as a bottoming inflection point and we are expecting Carnival's Cruise Lines pricing to gradually improve over time.
Regular booking is down by major trades as in -- for North America brands Caribbean itinerary booking volumes for the last 11 weeks covering the next 3 quarters and this excludes Carnival are slightly lower year-over-year at slightly higher prices.
Alaska bookings again excluding Carnival are significantly higher at lower prices.
And European itinerary bookings for North America brands and this of course excludes Carnival as well are slightly lower at nicely higher prices.
By major trades for EAA brands European itinerary booking volumes and that's approximately 60% of EAA capacity are significantly higher at higher prices a very encouraging sign.
Caribbean itinerary volumes for EAA brands which are just under 10% of EAA capacity are running behind last year but also at nicely higher prices.
Now let me comment on the cumulative booking status for each of the third fourth quarters of 2013 and Q1 of 2014.
For the third quarter on a fleet-wide basis at the present time occupancies are slightly behind last year at slightly lower prices.
North American brand occupancies and this excludes Carnival are slightly behind at flattish pricing.
Alaska pricing is behind last year and North American brand -- European itinerary pricing is higher versus last year.
Carnival Cruise Lines' pricing is lower on all of its major itineraries versus last year.
EAA brand occupancies for the third quarter which are largely in Europe trades are slightly behind last year at lower pricing.
Occupancies for our Asian and Australian businesses are nicely higher year-over-year with slightly higher pricing.
The performance of Costa in China is particularly encouraging given the doubling of its capacity in Asia during the quarter.
As we said in the press release for the third quarter we are forecasting revenue yields to be lower by 3.5% to 4.5%.
If we take Carnival out of that mix revenue yields will be lower in the 1.5% to 2.5% range.
For the fourth quarter on a fleet-wide basis excluding Carnival cumulative occupancies are slightly lower at slightly lower pricing for North American brands.
Excluding Carnival again occupancies are lower at higher prices.
Carnival Cruise Lines' occupancies for the fourth quarter are also lower at higher prices -- slightly higher prices.
For EAA brands occupancies are flattish year-over-year at lower prices.
Costa brand occupancies for the fourth quarter are nicely higher at lower prices.
This is the first time during the last several quarters that Costa has been ahead of the closer end booking curve this early in the booking process.
We read this as a very positive sign and are expecting Costa to have a nice increase in revenue yields in the fourth quarter.
For the first quarter of 2014 data is very preliminary but the picture shows that on a fleet-wide basis and this includes Carnival occupancies are lower year-over-year at higher prices.
North American brands occupancies again including Carnival are lower year-over-year at nicely higher prices.
EAA brands occupancies are also lower at slightly higher prices but this information is early and I wouldn't read too much into it.
Now let me just make some separate comments about the Carnival Cruise Lines brand if you will.
The impact of the ship incidents earlier this year on the Carnival brand has resulted in Carnival having to make a significant reduction in its profit forecast for the remainder of this year.
Carnival-forecasted year-over-year profit decline is estimated to have a $0.50 per share effect on the company's year-over-year results.
Of this approximately $0.27 is primarily due to lower revenue yields $0.16 results from lost sailings and repair costs relating to the Carnival Triumph refurbishment increase costs for Carnival's vessel enhancement programs and a higher planned marketing spend in the second half of the year for Carnival Cruise Lines amounted to $0.07 a share.
And that builds to the $0.50 decline in year-over-year results.
As I said earlier we do believe a successful reintroduction of the Carnival Triumph early this month together with the ship enhancements will be made -- will be the catalyst for the Carnival turnaround.
I should add that the Carnival brand is very resilient with a very large number of past guests that understand the great fun experience and value of a Carnival vacation.
Almost 4.5 million guests sail with Carnival every year and have a great vacation.
We are confident that as time passes this brand will come back stronger than ever.
Having said that our advisers are saying that the recovery will be gradual and it will take 2 to 3 years for the Carnival brand to fully recover.
But the good news is that it appears that the recovery has started.
Based on recent surveys consumer perception of the brand has significantly improved since the incidents back in March and we expect this trend to continue once confidence builds back in the brand.
We will need to cycle through a full year before we begin to see positive pricing comparisons which should begin in the second half of 2014.
I also want to take this moment to thank the travel agent community for their support of Carnival Cruise Lines during this period.
Travel agents know that Carnival provides great fun-packed vacations to a wide spectrum of consumers families adults adult couples singles and retirees and at very affordable prices.
Many of our travel agent partners have been very supportive of Carnival during this challenging period and for that we are very grateful.
On the other side of the Atlantic Costa Cruises' market recovery continues.
The company is forecasting a return to profitability this year from a loss in 2012.
Michael Thamm has made a number of changes to the management team and we are starting to see the results of those efforts.
The perception of the brand in the Italian market which is its largest market has significantly improved from last year and continues to trend in a positive direction.
Recent year-over-year booking volumes and pricing have been strong and it appears that the cost to recovery is well underway.
Of course a major challenge in Europe right now is the weakened economies especially in Italy and Spain but we still expect to grow year-over-year revenue yields for Costa in 2013.
Second quarter revenue yields for Costa were higher year-over-year as David mentioned and we expect Costa revenue yields for the third and fourth quarters to also be higher.
From an overall perspective while the year 2013 is disappointing for our company we believe the worst is over and a gradual recovery to our business is starting to build.
In North America our premium and luxury brands will have a solid performance in 2013.
However it is clear that more needs to be done to strengthen consumer demand for taking cruise vacations.
So beginning in the second half of the year we are planning to increase marketing spend across all North American brands and expect this to continue into 2014.
Let me bring you up to date on several recent management changes at the company.
Roger Frizzell joined us just yesterday as a Senior VP of Corporate Communications.
Roger will be very helpful to us in working in our media relations as well as developing a corporate communications plan.
Roger joins Carnival after a very successful track record at several major companies including Pacific Gas and Electric American Airlines Hewlett-Packard and AT&amp;T.
Captain David Christie has also joined the corporate management team as a Senior Vice President Maritime Quality Assurance.
David was instrumental in establishing our CSMART simulated training facility in Almere in the Netherlands and is leading the effort on behalf of the corporation to build our new global training facility which will also be located in the Netherlands.
This new training facility will include 5 bridge and 4 engine room simulators as well as additional training and classroom facilities for our ship and shore-side staff.
We believe this new Carnival education and training center of excellence will be the largest and most comprehensive maritime facility in the world.
Captain Mike Kaczmarek has moved over full time as Vice President of our Corporate R&amp;D Technology group.
This group has been responsible for developing the new scrubber technology which is now successfully operated under a pilot program on one of our ships.
We are planning to install the scrubbers on 2 more ships later this year and we expect to begin a full rollout of scrubbers installations on our ships in 2014.
We have a number of other R&amp;D projects underway primarily focused on fuel savings technology including the piloting of a bubble system on one of our ships later this year to improve the ship's hydrodynamics.
And later in 2014 we are pilot testing using LNG on one of our ships.
We have made significant R&amp;D investments over the last several years and the results have been gratifying with fuel savings in 2013 forecasted to be at 5%.
We have also begun to search for a Corporate Executive Vice President to oversee the various maritime departments in the corporate organization and this includes our corporate maritime policy our maritime quality assurance and -- which includes CSMART and our maritime auditing group.
This executive will also have a see-through line of sight to the senior maritime executives in each of the operating companies.
These corporate management changes are part of our plan to move towards a more consistent maritime and technical policies and practices throughout the worldwide fleet.
We have also made a number of changes to our management teams at Costa and Carnival U.K.
and we are confident that under Michael Thamm and David Dingle's leadership our European businesses will continue to improve in 2014.
At Carnival Cruise Lines the marine and technical management teams has recently been augmented with the additions of Richard O'Hanlon a former U.S.
Navy Admiral as Vice President of Nautical and Safety Operations; and Mark Jackson a former Coast Guard Captain as Vice President of Technical Operations.
Turning to our newbuild program our current schedule includes 7 new ships to be added to the fleet between now and 2016.
Two of the ships are for the AIDA brand the strongest-performing brand in the fleet.
And the remaining 5 ships on order are spread across 5 of our other major brands.
We believe these new ships which have a capacity of 50% to 70% higher than the existing ships in their respective fleets are far more fuel efficient and will help to improve our return on invested capital for the company.
We plan to add ships to our fleet only where we believe we can generate higher overall ROI for the brand.
In other words ships that will improve the brand's operating margins without negatively affecting the margins on the existing ships in the brand.
At the same time we continue to seek buyers for certain of our older and smaller ships and those efforts are ongoing.
So with those comments Micky Arnold and the rest of the team is here to answer any questions you might have.
Andre can I turn it over to you now? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Micky I'm just wondering as you transition to your Chairman-only role are you immediately relinquishing all the day-to-day roles including those related to operations shipbuilding? Just wondering how involved you're going to be.
You were deliberate in saying in your prepared remarks that you weren't going anywhere so I'm just wondering how you view your role going forward.
Well primarily I do my role as doing whatever Arnold needs me to do.
I'm -- my basic philosophy has been with all our CEOs that I'm there to help them be successful.
And anything that I can do to make -- to help Arnold become hugely successful and the company hugely successful I'm prepared to do.
So I obviously will continue to work on areas that I have extensive knowledge in newbuildings and other areas but it's really going to be a collaborative thing between me and Arnold to decide what are the best uses of my time.
I'm going to be looking to Arnold to run the day-to-day corporate operation and I may even take a couple of golf lessons.
Research Division</strong> Sounds nice.
And Arnold -- I'm kind of jealous.
Arnold congratulations to you as well.
And also since you aren't new to the company and now in the CEO role what do you think are going to be your immediate agenda items? Thank you.
Immediately we're T minus 8 days or 9 days or whatever it is before I come in but the immediate thing is to spend in-depth time with the leadership team.
And we have some tentative plans as a team Micky I and Howard together and we'll refine those through conversations with the rest of the leadership team.
But immediately it's to spend time with them and then ultimately of course to contribute to a very strong team that's already proven in the industry has built the world's largest leisure travel business and is continuing to operate successfully and to join that team and help drive over time the return on invested capital and additional customer satisfaction.
Research Division</strong> Howard have I burned through my questions or can I ask one more? You could have because you're so nice.
We're going to have -- let you have one more question.
Research Division</strong> Thank you.
And Howard this one's for you.
Oh no! Research Division</strong> On the Carnival brand you gave us some great color as usual.
I appreciate that.
But just wondering what areas do you think you have the most work to do? Is it with the travel agents? Is it with the consumers? Is it both? And just wondering if you could walk us through some specific examples of efforts you've been making there and maybe highlight some of the near-term wins that you may have had if any? I think the Carnival team the marketing team and the sales team have been increasing their engagement with the travel agent community and that will continue.
There are more things to roll out.
I think the reintroduction of the Triumph was sort of the tipping point I think for beginning that process.
And they're very encouraged by the early responses they've been getting.
And we've been seeing it actually in the booking pattern itself.
The successful reintroduction of the ship in Galveston was a very positive event for the company.
We've also put on a lot of communications on all the investments we've been making with the ships to get people to rebuild trust in the brand.
And especially that's important with the consumer and the first-time cruiser.
That's going to take -- and that's going to go on for quite some time.
So there's a multitude of efforts being made by Jerry and his team to move this forward and you'll see a lot more unfold I think over the next 6 months.
If I can just add that when you're carrying 4.5 million passengers most of them coming from the United States meaning that upwards of 1 in 3 passengers that go on a cruise in the United States go on a Carnival Cruise and 99% of them are coming back happy and telling their friends and getting on Facebook and Twitter and then telling people what a great time they've had.
That is powerful 90 000 folks every single week coming off those ships in the U.S.
and talking about the great experience and right now the great value they got as well.
So I think that will help accelerate the comeback of the brand.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> My questions are -- first just in terms of your 2- to 3-year estimate for recovery of the Carnival brand what assumptions are behind that of the people that you spoke with? I don't think there's any past industry events but did you look outside the industry for example? Or what helped you determine that? Yes.
I mean there were -- our consultants have basically used an analogy of 2 other non- -- Greg non-industry events and we're tracking the same way.
In terms of consumer perception we're tracking the same way which was a significant fall off in brand perception and then a gradual recovery until it's 3 years out.
So their view is that while we're a very different industry it's likely that we will follow the same pattern and that of course assumes that we get it right and we get the marketing out there right and we get our media communications out there properly and we continue to stay in touch with our consumers and our travel agents.
So their feeling is that we should track -- and by the way I would say up until this point it has tracked.
In some cases a little bit better than one of the issues that -- one of the companies that had a mishap.
So I think we're doing okay.
It's not an exact science.
It's just their best guess as to how long it will take for us to get back on -- get the brand back to where it was.
Again that is coming from consultants who have gone through similar types of situations.
But I do think the strength of the brand the amount of market share it has in the United States and the amount of people coming back will excel.
But safety was never an issue and I think it's important for people to understand that.
And a lot of the examples that our consultants give us do have significant casualty issues associated with the brand damage.
So I'm very hopeful that the recovery could be much faster than the consultants are leading us to believe.
Research Division</strong> And that makes all sense by the way.
And Howard just with respect to the recovery you mentioned over the last 6 weeks I don't know you speak a little bit faster sometimes than I can follow so when you were talking about the last -- what other color did you give around that? Are bookings flat year-over-year at this point? And when -- if not when would you expect those to be for the Carnival brand? Well based on a very recent couple of weeks bookings have been up nicely for the Carnival brand.
That's the most recent.
And that's since the reintroduction of the Carnival Triumph.
Bookings have been positive across the brand.
And for the Triumph and the Magic the 2 ships that are in Galveston bookings have been substantially higher year-over-year.
So that's kind of giving us the feeling that -- and by the way it is the beginning so I don't want to set up expectations here that we can't achieve.
But certainly we're very encouraged by what we see.
Right.
I also should mention that the refit of the Carnival Sunshine all the bunch of 2.0 additions have been incorporated into the Carnival Sunshine.
And...
We've been trying to [indiscernible]...
Some were added to the Triumph a few were added to the Triumph but all of them were put into the Carnival Sunshine.
And the response from the guests of all these various new features have been just absolutely fantastic.
So I think Jerry and his team as far as upgrading the product and making Fun Ship 2.0 a really viable addition to the Carnival brand particularly on Carnival Sunshine has been hugely successful.
Our next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of the repair costs that you've isolated in 2013 at $0.16 a share? How much of those are likely to bleed into 2014? The repair costs should be -- for the Carnival Triumph should be completely done.
There's a little bit in the third quarter but that will be it.
Research Division</strong> And what about retrofit? Will that continue into 2014? Are you talking about the vessel enhancements? Research Division</strong> Correct.
We had -- yes we had talked about the vessel enhancements being a multiple year process.
So there will be some of that in 2014 as well.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify that for me? Not at this point.
It was probably around $0.06 $0.07 a share in 2013 but we're looking -- we're working through those issues as we put together the detailed schedule for 2014.
And I'll probably give you more color on that later in the year.
Yes we're typically waiting to do that.
We'll have really much better information later on in the year as we go through the individual business plans for the operating companies and see what their plan is for 2000 -- for the 2014 rollout of these investments.
Keep in mind though that the overwhelming majority of the $600 million to $700 million that was in the press release is CapEx.
There's only some small pieces that will be in the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> And then a similar question as far as marketing you isolated that at $0.07 a share this year.
Do you think that that incremental cost stays about the same next year? Or does it go higher? Or might it come down a bit? Harry again let's just wait until the end of the year when we go through the business plans and we'll -- because the -- I think each of the brands and it's also true in Europe as well are also looking at changes in their marketing approach.
So we'll have a better sense of the overall increase in marketing for 2014 but that won't happen until sometime later in the fall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then greetings Arnold.
Just -- you've been on the board for 12 years you've got a pretty good idea of how Carnival runs.
Do you see any pretty clear opportunities to improve the company's return on invested capital? Is there any low-hanging fruit that you think you might want to focus on? Well as you know there's a difference between being on the board and being in operations.
So I've had close observations.
I think the team in place has been a continuous improvement in terms of cost management as well as revenue generation.
So I feel strongly that we'll discover some opportunities additional opportunities along the way.
But I feel the team is performing very well right now.
Harry just let me -- let me just jump in here for a second.
I think the view is that to drive increased -- we can at the margin improve ROIs in a variety of different ways including some of the things that we -- in terms of the newbuilds that we have that are better -- much better more efficient ships and so on much -- drive much higher returns.
But clearly revenue improvement is part of our plan to drive our -- we need to do that.
I think we'll see some of that naturally occur as the Costa brand improves and as the Carnival brand improves.
We'll start to see some benefit from that.
And I think one of the thoughts that are going around in the various companies is the increase in the marketing spend I think that we're talking about is also there is also being planned I think to drive better revenues on the net line.
So I think those are the kinds of strategies that we're talking about right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Rennardson with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 lines of questioning for you please number one is regarding the new CEO role.
Did you search both internally and externally for the new CEO? What is the mandate? And do we really see any material shift in policy and strategy? Do you think we'll be adding more capacity than planned? And then the second revolves around the ECA the oil price.
But 2015 is not that far away and your 10-K tells us you've got in a worst case $265 million of extra cost because of the low sulfur fuel requirement.
Are you in a position to talk to us about how you can mitigate that to what degree you can mitigate that? And if you can mitigate it what the extra CapEx might be? Okay let me first -- on the issue of the Chairman/CEO role we've been talking -- I've been talking to the independent directors of the board for quite some time about where we go from here as far as corporate management and structure.
We said 10 years ago in our discussions in the U.K.
that we were totally committed to the DLC structure very sensitive to U.K.
governance and have moved in that direction over the years.
And obviously a key element of those discussions over the last 10 years has been splitting of the Chairman and CEO role.
So I've been sensitive to that for quite some time.
we've been talking about it for quite some time myself and the -- and Stu Subotnick who is the Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Nominating Governance Committee talked extensively with the committee about various candidates.
We did not do a full -- we didn't hire consultants to do a full external search.
We felt very very comfortable.
I recommended Arnold as a choice and Stu and the committee immediately supported that as well as all the independent directors.
So we felt we had the right candidate.
There was no reason to go beyond that and we're -- and I'm delighted that -- we didn't know when Stu called Arnold whether it would be something he would entertain and we were delighted he did and that's the way -- that's the direction we went.
Clearly this ties much greater with the U.K.
governance model than the U.S.
but I think even in the U.S.
it's starting to move in this direction.
So that's the way it all happened.
As far as ECA? Yes.
Thank you Micky.
Howard did mention in his notes that we had a scrubber on -- that is successfully operating on one of our ships and we're going to put scrubbers on 2 more ships later this year and that we then expect to roll out the scrubber installations in 2014.
We may not have every single ship equipped with scrubbers by January 1 2015 but we'll clearly prioritize those ships that have the biggest impact.
So in 2015 with the new ECA we do believe we can mitigate a significant portion of that $265 million.
We may not get it all in 2015 but we will get it all shortly thereafter as we do the installation.
It's about $1 million to $1.5 million per engine.
You got to do at least a couple of engines on each ship.
So it is a significant amount of CapEx.
But the numbers that we've been giving out for CapEx do include our anticipated scrubber CapEx as well.
So those are already in the numbers you've heard Beth give out.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question.
I think you said for the Carnival brand that as you cycle through next year the yields wouldn't recover till the second half.
So is that sort of an informal guidance for yields of the Carnival brands be down in the first half broadly? And then the second question was on the implied yield guidance for the fourth quarter.
It looks like quite a wide range of sort of between 0 and down 4%.
And 0 will be a pretty big recovery from Q3's minus 4% guidance figure.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit about that please and where the risk lies within that Q4 range? Jamie this is Howard.
It wasn't really in -- the Carnival cycling through a full year before it starts to see positive pricing was not meant to be guidance.
What I meant to say is that we'll begin to see in the second half of 2014 the possibility of yield improvement on the pricing that we're taking on a year-over-year basis.
So it'll be because of the easier comparisons.
And if you assume improvement in the perception of the brand and that we should start to see some pricing improvement how that falls out in 2000 -- in the third and fourth quarters remains to be seen.
So I'm not suggesting that's guidance.
But we're hopeful that that will be the beginning of a positive year -- year-over-year improvement in pricing.
On the issue of yield guidance I'm going to turn it over to David.
Yes Jamie.
This is what happens when you round everything to whole percentages and all.
I understand the math that you're working through.
The expectation on the fourth quarter is that we'll see a little bit better than the third quarter.
We are -- as Howard mentioned we are seeing continued improvement particularly in Costa in Europe.
And as some -- those brands improve in the fourth quarter the number will be a little bit better than third quarter.
Still down but a little bit better than third.
Research Division</strong> And a kind of follow-up from the previous question on scrubbers I was under the impression they made engines a bit less fuel-efficient just on a consumption basis obviously cleaner with sulfur.
But would there be any impact on fuel consumption once they're fully rolled out? There are some incremental operating expenses relating to the scrubbers but there really isn't anything significant in the way of fuel consumption changes.
Our next question comes from the line of Lena Thakkar with HSBC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Firstly I just wonder if you could give a little color around the comments of nicely higher.
Just trying to think what that means.
Is that a sort of low-single-digit number or sort of mid-single digit? It's just -- I've heard that a few times through the call and just trying to understand what that means.
And secondly if we think about Costa I understand most of the recovery so far this year has been occupancy-driven.
Are we now to assume that the remainder of the Costa recovery is therefore pricing-driven? And I wonder if you could tell us how much of -- or what sort of year-on-year improvements Costa has seen so far and if you expect that sort of a run rate for the rest of the year? Or you expect the revenue the yield improvements to be sort of lower going forward given that they are based on pricing rather than occupancy? So that's the first time I've had a question about nicely higher in a while.
So nicely higher is somewhere between slightly higher and significantly higher.
I hope that answers your question.
It is in the mid- to high-single-digits range when I talk about nicelies.
It's usually north of 5%.
And that's kind of how I see it.
And so it's an -- if you come up with a better term for me send me a note.
On the Costa occupancy and pricing improvement yes it's on both sides of the ledger.
And with the third -- second quarter pricing was up.
I'm not sure if it was driven more by occupancy.
Yields were up.
I'm not sure if they're driven by occupancy and pricing.
But clearly we're seeing even further improvements -- if the -- assuming our forecasts are correct here and their forecast -- further improvements in Q3 and Q4 over Q2 on -- and a lot of that is going to be driven by pricing.
Yes.
You know what happens with Costa because each quarter was so dramatically different you get a mix impact.
Remember their pricing was down in first quarter because of the year-over-year comparison and the strong prior year.
So in the back half of the year we are definitely seeing the overall yield increase is much greater than the occupancy increase.
We are seeing the pricing there as Howard indicated.
Our next question comes from Assia Georgieva with Infiniti Research.
I have a couple of questions.
Again discussing the Costa recovery we are basically 1.5 years since the incident.
At the time you had expected the $500 million swing to profitability and we seem to be -- to have recovered the vast majority of that.
So in 2014 do you think we'll be back to regular profitability? And the second question is related.
Can that serve as a model or a potential pattern for the Carnival brand? Yes.
Well I -- first I don't think we're -- you're right.
The guidance was I think originally that we took a $500 million hit to operating.
I don't think we've gained anything near that back.
We went from a loss to a profit right now.
And so we're well on our way back but we still got plenty of room to recover on Costa.
And we're hopeful we'll start to begin to see more of that in 2014.
But that will even continue into 2015.
So we're greatly encouraged by what we're seeing at Costa right now.
Of the $500 million roughly $100 million of that swing was the loss capacity which we do not expect to get back until the ship returns.
We have the next delivery which is in 2016? The end of next year.
The end of next year.
Oh end of next year.
End of '14 -- '15.
'15 you'll get the effect of it.
End of '14 ...
End of '14 the ship gets through.
And we had indicated Costa's yields for the year were down 16%.
We had indicated back in December that we had expected to get about half back this year.
But because of the difficult economic environment in Southern Europe we're expecting to get back 1/4 of it.
And we do expect to see continued improvements as we go along.
With respect to using Costa as an example of what will happen at Carnival it's really hard to say because each situation was unique and different and the markets that they trade in are largely -- are different.
And Costa is still dealing with the issue of the Concordia still in the water and probably won't get onto the process for parbuckling it.
And moving it out will take probably next 6 to 9 months.
So they're still dealing with that issue in Italy.
But remember they market into -- and you know this well -- into Italy Germany France and Spain.
That's their primary markets.
Carnival is principally U.S.
markets and it's really -- it's too early in the process to know if the changes are going to be analogous or not in terms of -- or the improvement are going to be the same or not.
I think it's just too early to know.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Katz with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> You guys have mentioned marketing spending increase a couple of times already on the call.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're allocating those dollars to reach the consumers and where you're getting your most bang for your buck? And then also if you've seen any pockets of strength or weakness change in consumers globally would you be able to offer that information? Jamie I think -- we're talking about a number of different brands all doing -- making changes.
And I'm talking about anticipating -- increasing their spend in the marketing area.
A lot of it is going to be focused on travel agents and travel agent co-op marketing more trade advertising.
A lot of it is social media and web-based marketing and is also for the consideration to going back and doing more TV.
So it's a variety of these things.
Having said that we haven't seen -- we are going to start the process later on or earlier in the fall to go ahead and look at the marketing programs for each of the brands and we'll be better able to I think articulate exactly what the spend is going to look like and where it's going to be allocated to.
I don't know if that helps but it's still early for me to comment specifically.
And your second question was -- say that again? Research Division</strong> Were there any kind of pockets of strengths or weakness as far as like geographically with consumers that you saw change over the last quarter or 2? I mean I know Europe was mentioned as kind of looking a little bit more promising but has anything like the North American consumer become significantly stronger or weaker? Is that too hard to parse out with the Triumph? All I can tell you is that patterns both in North America and Europe on a year-over-year basis pricing and volume seem to be pretty good right now.
So it's a pretty positive story.
I understand it more North America.
I kind of scratch my head a little bit in Europe to be honest with you but I'll take it.
It is a -- things seem to be -- I think maybe it's consumer confidence strengthening or positive things that are going on.
And so we're very encouraged by what we're seeing in Europe right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things here relating to Europe in general if we can characterize using December as the benchmark you first called out at that time that you had some concerns about Northern Europe.
You mentioned that a little bit here in your preamble.
Maybe give us some color regarding Northern Europe relative to then.
And then it appears that maybe Northern Europe on a year-over-year basis is a little weaker but Southern Europe obviously off of an extremely low bar here is starting to turn to the positive.
So a little color on Europe I guess number one.
And question number two would be related to the redundancies and the retrofits on the ships.
It sounds like mid-'14 is when a decent amount of those where you're mitigating a lot of the risk.
If you can just give us a little more color and confirmation on that.
I can start with Europe.
When we went through the guidance in December we had indicated that we expected our Northern European brands to be down.
And I think I also indicated just a moment ago we expected Costa to get back about half the yield it had previously lost.
As the months and weeks passed we did see more weakness throughout Europe than we had anticipated.
And as we talked on the previous conference call we brought down the yield guidance relative to Europe actually in both Northern Europe and for Costa.
As I said before Costa is only expected to get back a quarter of what it previously lost.
Now with that said our -- even though our Northern European brands the yields are going down the yields in P&amp;O Cruises and AIDA are still some of the highest in our fleet.
They're doing -- they're performing incredibly well and the return on investment to those brands is again above average for our fleet.
So it's a directional change in reduction but it's still -- their absolute performance is very good.
As far as mitigating risk I would say we've done a number of things to mitigate risk immediately so that the risk level is clearly mitigated.
Again I have to reiterate that it's not a safety issue and that the items that we talked about in our press release the CapEx we're rolling out as much as we can in operations.
Some of it will require dry docking and because of that there may be a 2- or 3-year rollout of some items.
But many are being programmed and taken care of while the ships are being in operation.
So it's a variety of things.
But believe me every day the risk is being mitigated more and more.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you say Micky that it's fair that -- the risk of another incident I know can never be 0 but -- a repeat type of incident by mid-'14 is that a fair timetable when a lot of that will be taken away? There's nothing you can be assured of except death and taxes but we're doing everything we can to mitigate the risk as quickly as we can.
By the way I would just say this Tim that that risk exists not just -- you're talking about relative risk.
These are essentially enhancements.
We got to keep in mind and we've said it a number of times that Carnival Triumph's situation didn't result in anybody being even injured.
So I mean the systems worked and that's important to remember.
All we're doing now is we're enhancing -- further enhancing the systems and further -- making -- to make sure that our customers are comfortable and that we deal with the issues more quickly and more effectively so that we can get the ship back up and running should something happen.
But by and large this is just enhancements.
And the rollout of this will be largely -- what you have to do is you have to manufacture a lot of this equipment before you can even install it.
And then many of the -- Micky said many of the installations will be -- have to be in dry docks.
Some of the installations can be done on the run.
Many of the items have already been ordered and we're waiting for delivery of it and then the installation of it.
But the rollout of this will be this year second half of this year '14 and '15 where most of the work will be done.
And while we're rolling out the work the more permanent work we are putting power packs on the ships very quickly and that will mitigate some of the risk that we talked about in terms of comfort in the unlikely event anything happens.
I just wanted to add-on to the capacity -- to the comment about Europe Northern Europe versus the Med.
I think it's fair to acknowledge that the Northern European products did have a significant capacity increase this year relative to the Med and we do not expect that to recur in 2014.
Yes.
Going back to the risk issue I do want to reiterate what the former head of the NTSB said the due risk of driving to the port is a lot higher than anything you do once you get on the cruise.
It's probably true.
The risk of getting in your shower is a lot higher too.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just your guidance excluding the Carnival brand that you talked about booking volume and pricing up for the next 3 quarters.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of if you excluded the Costa brand as well from that whether the rest of the fleet would be up in volume price just since Costa is obviously being helped by the year-over-year comparisons.
Is the rest of the fleet up in price and volume excluding Costa as well as Carnival? We have the information someplace but I don't have it right at hand.
Yes.
Why don't you give Beth a call after? We don't have the information cut in that many different ways right here at the table.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay sure.
And then my other question is you talked about the reintroduction of the Triumph as kind of marking the bottoming of the Carnival brand and I certainly understand symbolically how that would.
But I wonder if you could sort of translate that into more specifically -- you mentioned volumes have been up since then but can you talk about whether that's with prices having to be down or just sort of quantifying something a little more specific to bookings to see that that was the bottom more than just kind of the symbolic reintroduction? Clearly prices have been sharp at Carnival Cruise Lines but they -- to what -- the context of Howard's point they haven't been sharper since the Triumph has been reintroduced.
We haven't done anything to reduce price since the Triumph has been reintroduced.
And I think what was important was that it was reintroduced looking fantastic with a lot of media board a lot of hoopla in the area.
And I think that created the positive spin in an area that was most impacted which is the greater Texas Houston area.
And I think the coverage was terrific.
The -- George Lopez did a great job Guy Fieri did a great job DJ Irie did and the whole Carnival team there introducing some of the new Fun Ship 2.0 features and so on.
And the ship looked great.
So that clearly had to help.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Thomas with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wondered whether you could first of all just provide a little bit more color within your full year yield guidance in relation to -- just trying to sort of split that out between the North American brands and the EAA brands.
And also an idea on your expectations for the Carnival brand within that? And then secondly I think a few questions ago and apology if I missed some of the color that was given around this but a few questions ago you indicated a degree of encouragement around what you're seeing in Europe fairly recently.
Most of the data points that you gave in terms of the next couple of quarters were still sort of occupancy and pricing being down.
I wondered whether you could provide a little bit more color around what it is you've been seeing more recently in Europe that leaves you more encouraged.
On the North American Europe pricing for the year...
The full year is down 2 to 3 in total.
North America in total is slightly more than the average and Europe is slightly less than that.
So they're averaging out into the middle part of that range.
And Carnival Cruise Lines is down in the mid-single digits for the full year overall.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of color.
And Carnival is what's driving the North American brands obviously to be down for the year.
My recollection is that the premium and luxury brands in North America have a flat yield flattish yields year-over-year x Carnival.
Research Division</strong> So north -- within North America in total that would be slightly worse than the down 2% to 3%? The Carnival brand which is broadly half of North America to be down mid-single digit so therefore means the rest of the North American brands would still need to be sort of down broadly in line with the overall group guidance? Is that [indiscernible]? Flattish.
Flattish.
Flat.
Flat.
To get to the high end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So presumably...
Let's -- what I suggest you do is you double back with Beth on this stuff and she can take you through it.
Research Division</strong> Flattish for the rest of the North American brand is what you're saying? Correct.
Correct.
Yes.
On Europe essentially what we've seen in the last 11 weeks is an uptick in European bookings and pricing across all -- I believe substantially across all brands.
I can't remember every brand there but it's always been a very positive development in Europe.
That's about all I can tell you.
Research Division</strong> Presumably that's been skewed given the statement you made what sort of 5-ish weeks ago when you had the intra-quarter update.
When at that stage Europe was a little worse than it had been.
Presumably the comments you were making was your improvement over an 11-week timeframe.
That actually quite skewed towards the latter 5 weeks post that more recent update.
Is that fair to conclude? No.
I think that's a little bit of apples to oranges comparison.
What I was saying 5 or 6 weeks ago or I think what we were saying is Europe is softer than our expectations and our guidance our earlier guidance.
This is more year-over-year bookings.
And so that has shown improvement over the 11-week period including that earlier period that we were talking about.
However it was short of where we thought it would be.
So it wasn't as strong.
We thought it would be stronger but it wasn't as strong as it was based on our earlier guidance.
So they're a little bit of different comparisons.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But compared with sort of 5 weeks ago nothing particularly material has changed versus your expectations 5 weeks ago.
It's the year-on-year numbers that you've seen improving.
I think the 6 -- I can't recall exactly.
We have 6 weeks data and we have 11 weeks data.
And the 6-week data didn't differ materially from the 11-week data.
Really haven't changed our expectations.
Yes we haven't changed...
We haven't changed our expectations.
Right.
So it's still [indiscernible].
Exactly.
In fact.
[indiscernible] a little color of recent bookings [indiscernible] haven't changed our expectation.
We presently have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you very much.
I know there'll be follow-on questions and Beth is around and we appreciate it.
And we look forward to -- Arnold and Micky and I Dave and Beth look forward to seeing everybody soon.
So...
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Carnival Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday September 24 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Frank Vice Chairman and COO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Len.
And good morning everyone.
This is Howard Frank.
And with me today is Arnold Donald our President and Chief Executive Officer; Micky Arison our Chairman; and David Bernstein our Chief Financial Officer; and Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations.
We are all gathered in London actually for the -- today we announce the naming of a new P&amp;O ship the Britannia.
And there was a tremendous amount of press there and we got some great coverage.
So that was a quite a nice morning for us.
And later on this week we start our business reviews starting with the P&amp;O brand and Cunard in the U.K.
So we'll follow the usual procedures and David Bernstein will give you some color on the third quarter.
David? Thank you Howard.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this conference call will be forward-looking.
I will refer you to the cautionary statements in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currencies unless otherwise noted as this is the more useful measure of business trends.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the third quarter was $1.38.
The third quarter came in $0.09 above the midpoint of our June guidance driven by lower net cruise costs excluding fuel.
I will speak to the full year cost later but in summary we expect $0.05 of the $0.09 to flow through favorably as cost savings for the year; the remaining $0.04 from the timing of expenses between the third and fourth quarter primarily for advertising as a number of brands decided to delay some of their advertising spend from the summer months to the fall season.
Our GAAP EPS for the third quarter was $1.20 which is $0.18 below our non-GAAP EPS.
The GAAP EPS included $203 million or $0.26 per share of impairment charges partially offset by $64 million or $0.08 per share of unrealized gains for our fuel derivatives program as the price of Brent increased this quarter.
The impairment charges included $176 million related to 2 smaller Costa ships 1 of which will leave service this November; as well as $27 million for Ibero's remaining trademarks and other small items.
In the earnings release you will notice that we have further refined our definition of non-GAAP earnings.
Non-GAAP earnings now excludes gains and losses on ship sales and related impairments which are classified in other ship operating expenses on our P&amp;L.
In connection with this change net cruise cost which is also a non-GAAP measure will exclude these cruise-related items as well.
The excluded items are clearly identified in the non-GAAP financial measure reconciliations of net cruise costs net income and EPS located towards the back of the earnings release.
It should be noted that all of the excluded items are noncash.
In addition you will see that prior-period actuals and previous guidance for non-GAAP measures have been changed to be consistent with the new definition.
For example 2012 non-GAAP EPS for the 9 months ended August 31 increased to $1.80 from $1.75.
We believe it is the more meaningful -- it's more meaningful for these items to be excluded from our non-GAAP measures since gains and losses on ship sales as well as any impairment charges are not part of our core operating business and therefore are not an indication of our future performance.
Now let's look at the third quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 3.4%.
The North America brands were up 4%.
The European Australia and Asian brands known as our EAA brands were up 2.5%.
Our total net revenue yields in the third quarter declined almost 4% in line with our June guidance.
Now let's look at the 2 components of net revenue yields.
Net ticket yields declined 4.6%.
The North American brands were down 5.4% primarily driven by promotional discounting at Carnival Cruise Line.
Our EAA brands were down 3% driven by declines in our Northern European brands partially offset by increases at Costa and P&amp;O Cruises Australia a pattern similar to last quarter.
Net onboard and other yields decreased slightly just under 1% a trend we had anticipated in our previous guidance.
Our EAA brands experienced a slight increase which was more than offset by declines in the North American brands across most onboard categories.
Net cruise costs for the quarter per ALBD excluding fuel and now excluding the impairments under our new definition were up 4.6% versus the prior year.
This increase was better than we expected in our June guidance as I previously mentioned.
As a result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel usage our consumption per ALBD declined 5% this quarter and saved us $0.04 per share versus the prior year.
In summary the third quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.15 lower than the prior year driven by lower net revenue yields and higher cruise costs without fuel partially offset by capacity increases improved fuel consumptions and currency.
Now turning to our 2013 outlook.
I will skip net revenue yields as Howard will discuss that shortly.
For the full year net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD are forecasted to be up 4% versus the prior year.
This is at the lower end of our previous guidance range as a result of the cost savings experienced in the third quarter that I expect to flow through to the full year.
On a final note I wanted to share with you preliminary cost guidance for next year as there are several areas in the business we plan to invest in to improve our return on invested capital.
For 2014 we expect net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD to be up in a range similar to 2013.
This increase is driven by more marketing activity; investments in onboard products such as food and entertainment; higher dry-dock costs including vessel enhancements; and various other costs and inflation partially offset by our ongoing efforts to reduce costs.
Please keep in mind that this is very preliminary.
Over the next few weeks we will be visiting each of the operating companies to review their 2014 annual plans and we'll have a much clearer picture on 2014 costs after those meetings and we will provide detailed guidance on the December call.
At this point I will turn the call back over to Howard.
Thank you David.
As in our last call I will comment separately about the continuing progress we've made at Carnival Cruise Lines and Costa Cruises.
But first let me bring you up-to-date on the last 12 weeks of bookings since the end of March.
In this discussion I've taken Carnival Cruise Lines booking information out of the mix which I will comment on separately.
As a reminder all of the pricing information I will be discussing is using constant currency.
Fleet-wide booking volume during the last 12 weeks from the end of June covering the sale and build of the next 3 quarters are at the same levels -- about the same levels as last year.
These bookings have been at higher prices versus last year and as I said this excludes Carnival.
For North American brands booking volumes during this 12-week period are higher year-over-year at lower prices.
And for EAA brands booking volumes are lower at nicely higher prices.
We see the EAA booking pattern as an encouraging sign especially given the continued softness in European economies.
The last 6 weeks of the 12-week period we've seen a nice uptick in booking volumes in North America and EAA which is also an encouraging sign.
For Carnival Cruise Lines booking volumes and pricing over the last 12 weeks are both lower year-over-year in low-single-digits and double -- and mid-double-digits range respectively.
Carnival booking volumes have also shown recent improvement and during the last 6 weeks are running higher year-over-year.
As Carnival booking volumes steadily increase we are expecting their cruise pricing to gradually improve over the longer term.
Now I'll move to the cumulative booking status for each of the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first and second quarters of 2014.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 on a fleet-wide basis and this excludes Carnival cumulative occupancies are lower at the same pricing levels as last year.
For North American brands excluding Carnival again occupancies are slightly lower at slightly lower prices.
Carnival Cruise Lines occupancies for the fourth quarter are lower at lower prices.
For EAA brands occupancies are lower year-over-year at slightly higher prices reflecting the positive patterns we have experienced during the last 12 weeks.
Costa brand occupancies and pricing for the fourth quarter are nicely higher.
As we indicated in the press release on a fleet-wide basis including Carnival Cruise Lines we are expecting fleet-wide revenue yields in the fourth quarter to be 3% or 4% lower year-over-year.
North American brand revenue yields in the fourth quarter excluding Carnival are expected to be down slightly.
Carnival Cruise Lines yields in the fourth quarter are expected to be lower in the double-digits range and fourth quarter EAA pricing revenue yields are expected to be higher year-over-year.
Turning now to the fourth -- to the first quarter of 2014.
On a fleet-wide basis pricing on bookings taken to date is higher year-over-year with lower occupancies.
For North American brands excluding Carnival pricing is higher on lower occupancies.
Carnival Cruise Lines pricing is lower on lower occupancies.
For EAA brands pricing on bookings taken to date is flat year-over-year at lower occupancies.
Second quarter of 2014 bookings taken to date which is still in the early stages of development.
On a fleet-wide basis excluding Carnival pricing is slightly higher year-over-year at lower occupancies.
North American brands pricing is slightly higher at lower occupancies.
At this stage Carnival's pricing is also higher at lower occupancies.
For EAA brands pricing is slightly higher at lower occupancies.
As to the yield outlook for the first half of 2014 although pricing on bookings taken to date for the first half of 2014 is higher because we are running behind on occupancies we are expecting revenue yields will follow the usual pattern of coming down as we close out the first and second quarters.
As a result on a fleet-wide basis for the first half of the year we are estimating a low-single-digits decrease in revenue yields in a similar range to the lower yields we experienced in the third and fourth quarters of 2013.
This expectation includes the Carnival Cruise Lines yields.
North American brand yields in the first half of 2014 are expected to be lower year-over-year and EAA brand yields are expected to be higher.
We are ramping up our -- in the efforts in both North America and Europe this fall and winter and are expecting that revenue yields will turn positive in the second half of the year.
Now let me just turn to the Carnival Cruise Lines.
The Carnival Cruise Lines brand continues to demonstrate such resilient in the market maintaining high occupancies albeit at lower prices.
The perception and consideration survey to the Carnival brand continue to show improving trends at a faster pace than originally projected so we are greatly encouraged by these positive signs.
Yesterday Carnival began its fall marketing with a new national and consumer advertising campaign on the back of the announcement of its new Carnival Great Vacation Guarantee program.
This is one of the largest fourth quarter national marketing expense for Carnival in recent years and is designed to further accelerate the improvements we are seeing in brand perception and consideration.
The increase in Carnival's consumer advertising is also expected to drive more consumers to our travel agent partners.
Also as a result of recent travel agent surveys and its travel agent outreach program Carnival Conversations Carnival has made a number of changes and improvements to its travel agent programs.
This includes adding more in-house traveled -- travel in-house call center agents new bonus commission plans providing complimentary cabins and a variety of other changes to make it easier for travel agents to book Carnival.
Also a new and simplified cabin pricing plan also to make it easier to book Carnival is expected to be announced shortly.
The response to these changes by travel agents has been very positive and we have seen a significant improvement in travel agent bookings with the introduction of these programs.
So we again thank the travel agent community for their continuing support of Carnival Cruise Lines during these past year.
Carnival will continue to reach out to travel agents to ensure that we maintain a strong partnership with this critically important distribution channel.
Although Carnival Cruise Lines' pricing is lower than we would like with the new national advertising campaign and the increase in marketing spend this fall and winter we do expect to see a recovery of pricing as we cycle into the second half of 2014.
Recently Carnival got to the strategy of holding firm on pricing even if its ships sale at slightly lower occupancies.
We believe this will make Carnival's pricing recovery more achievable as we move through 2014.
Now turning to Costa Cruises.
As most of you know the critical phase of the Costa Concordia removal was completed last week and the present plan is to take the ship to the scrapyard next spring.
We believe this is a start of a new chapter for Costa and we expect the company's performance to continue to strengthen over the remainder of this year and throughout 2014.
Brand perception surveys for Costa continue to show improvement particularly in Italy and France its 2 most important markets.
Costa revenue yields show a nice improvement in 2013.
And we are forecasting continued revenue yield increases in 2014 for Costa despite what is still a very challenging European economic environment especially in [indiscernible].
So congratulations to Michael Thamm and the Costa management team for managing through a very very difficult period.
Let me make some concluding comments by saying while 2013 has been a challenging year for Carnival Corporation there were many positive developments for the company that bode well for our future.
We continue to be encouraged by the growth of our business in Asia.
Beginning in 2014 we will have 2 fully dedicated Costa ships in the China and Southeast Asian markets and Princess will have 1 fully dedicated ship in these markets.
Princess will also have 2 ships in the Japanese market during the 2014 spring and summer season in Japan.
We believe these emerging new markets for Costa and Princess offer significant growth opportunities for our business in the future.
In Australia our P&amp;O Australia Princess and Carnival brands are the 2 -- are the major year-round operators in Australia.
P&amp;O Australia is a market leader and our combined brands are by far the leading cruise line companies in Australia.
We are also pleased to see the turnaround for Costa in Europe and we expect to see solid revenue growth and improved profitability for Costa in 2014.
Our well-established European cruise brands Costa and AIDA in Continental Europe; P&amp;O Cruises and Cunard in the U.K.
are great franchises and we expect the performance of our European companies to improve as the European economies begin to emerge from several years of slow or negative growth.
Our European cruise companies are the market leaders in their respective countries and have maintained their presence in these markets during the difficult economic period.
We believe this will position them to grow their profits more quickly as these markets emerge from recession.
And coming back to the U.S.
We do expect the Carnival Cruise Lines brand to begin to see a recovery in the second half of 2014 as we cycle through the events of 2013.
Our 2 premium brands Holland America and Princess are all expected to have a solid performance in 2014.
Our Seabourn brand although small is performing extremely well.
So to sum it all up we have a great -- we have great cruise brands all over the world and we are excited about our future.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Arnold.
Arnold? Thank you Howard.
And hello everyone.
I have I guess nearly 3 months under my belt with the on-boarding process so that process is well underway.
We've just completed in-depth reviews with each of our leadership teams to look back over the past 5 years in each of our businesses and key corporate departments.
I've also visited with our leadership teams in each of their own markets including Australia; U.K.; Continental Europe; as well as our U.S.-based operations both on the West Coast and of course in Miami.
As well I visited China to see our emerging market opportunity there first hand and I can say I am very impressed with the commitment the dedication and hard work that has been accomplished and can affirm that we have solid leadership talent in place.
This process of on-boarding has also included spending some time with our travel agent partners to better understand how they see us relative to our peers and how we can support them in their very important role engaging with the media to provide proper context.
And we're confident that -- when armed with more information and more personal experiences with cruising that we can gain more balance in the press over time.
I've been spending time with our shoreside and shipboard employees gaining an understanding of the challenges our team members face in delivering that great guest experience.
And importantly our valued guests I've spent time with which has allowed me a practical feel for the guest experience to complement the quantitative data and market research to gain deeper insight.
Having gained these perspectives I believe we have an opportunity to stimulate demand and drive yield improvements starting with gaining a better understanding of the consumer by further investing in research to better identify vacation purchase decisions sharpening the focus on product attributes consumers are willing to pay for differentiating our brands to better attract our targeted guests and once onboard taking the exceptional vacation that we deliver to our guests today to the next level.
And in doing so we can generate the word of mouth that is most significant -- is the most significant driver of attracting first-time cruisers.
On the cost side I believe we have tremendous opportunities to use our scale more effectively through collaboration across our brands these add synergies some of which we've already have achieved but there's plenty more opportunities ahead.
I cruise myself.
I have for years even before I joined the board.
I love the product and I have no doubt we will be able to generate better returns than we do today.
I feel much better positioned now to be effective in our upcoming plan meetings beginning later this week and expect to be fully up to speed by December and begin to make some meaningful contributions toward any shareholder value.
Thank you all.
And with that we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Howard starting with you just if we could just talk about your -- the outlook for next year.
You gave us good color for the first half appreciate that and also appreciate kind of your comments on the second half.
What I'm wondering where you said that the yields would turn positive.
I'm just wondering if overall do you think you could report a 2014 yield increase that's better than flat year-over-year? And I know it's early but I am asking.
It's early.
I feel that -- at some risk I think we kind of gave first half yield outlook because it was going to be down.
We do expect to see a turn in the third and fourth quarters to a positive yield but I would hesitate to put any kind of numbers on it right now.
I think we need to go through the next couple of months go through the business plans and we'll have a much better feel for it -- this is based on -- as David said at the start of his comments it's based on very very early information from the brands.
So we need to refine it and get it better.
But we wanted to get the guidance on the first half now at least from a yield standpoint because we were concerned that people didn't understand what was happening in the business.
Research Division</strong> In the first half lower yields -- the first half yields which are going to be lower year-over-year similar to the second half of '13 I mean is that mainly just driven by still Carnival? Or is there anything else that's driving that? Well it's definitely driven largely by Carnival yes.
I mean I -- we expect positive yields on the EAA side.
So the other 2 brands are solid so we expect most of it to be a Carnival challenge maybe a little bit.
I can't recall exactly but I think maybe a little bit on some of the other brand but not much.
I think one of the things when you look at the first half of 2014 versus the back half of 2013 while we say as they're similar declines they are made up a little bit different.
Both Carnival and Costa are improving but what you'll see happening is Costa is not improving as much as it did in the back half of '13 and therefore you're kind of coming out at a similar amount.
Although both Costa and Carnival are improving Carnival is not down as much and Costa is not up as much as it was in the back half.
And actually Carnival compared to the first half of this year 2013 is a tough comparison because the events happen subtly [ph] so we'll be comparing first half next year of Carnival to first half this year.
And that's a tough comparison given the fact Carnival we're not yet fully recovered there...
And then we did -- when we said they're improving they're improving from the prior quarters.
On the prior quarters.
Yes.
And it's also consistent with what we said last quarter.
It didn't seem like anybody was -- took it hard.
But it is consistent with what we said last quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
David just a quick cost question.
Thank you for the color you gave us on why it's going to increase next year probably more than we expected.
But if we back out all of the initiatives and the dry docks and the things that you talked about does the underlying cost profile look similar to how you have typically fund the business? Well I think next year is a little bit unique.
The things that we were talking about there were some onetime costs this year that -- relating to the Carnival tribe that don't repeat themselves next year.
But we do have quite a few dry docks next year.
They're longer in length because of the vessel enhancements.
That is costing us something.
And we talked about the increased advertising expense which is an investment that we hope will wind up with better yields in the back half of next year.
There are other investments that we're making in the food and entertainment and the product.
There are a few other things insurance premiums crew air costs investments in sales forces and other things that we think are worthwhile that we're looking at.
But again these are all very preliminary.
And we've got a lot of discussions to do with the operating companies before we can give you a final number.
But these are some of the things that they're proposing.
The next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarifications.
I'm just thinking about rate of recovery and things for more than just the Costa brand but I'm curious for Costa in the third quarter.
Was the yield increase just in occupancy recovery or was there also ticket price improvement for the Costa brand in Q3? That's one question.
And then the commentary you gave about first half I -- you said North American yields would be down in the first half and I just wanted to clarify was that including or excluding the Carnival brand for first half yields? I think the cost -- do you want to go first? The Costa yields.
The Costa brand's in the third quarter was mostly occupancy led.
We are projecting that the fourth quarter will be a combination of occupancy and pricing.
And the North American yield outlook that I provided was -- includes Carnival.
Research Division</strong> And if you excluded the Carnival brand in the -- would North American yields in the first half be up excluding Carnival? I didn't give that information.
Research Division</strong> And it's not something I guess that's I guess you would want to give [ph].
It's a little early.
[indiscernible] It's too early Robin.
We try to give a -- based on preliminary information both on a yield and cost side we're trying to give some directional information out.
We'll go through the numbers in the next couple of months with the business guys and get a better sense.
And they'll have a better sense of it as well and then it will [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> And I can appreciate that you're trying to give guidance and want to give it as much but not give more than you have visibility for.
I guess the reason I was asking for the clarification is I'm trying to think about whether it's mostly the Carnival brand issues that are hurting North American yields.
And so I guess would you say that the -- if it's still a question mark for sort of the North American brands excluding Carnival? Is it still primarily related to like the Carnival brand's issues that affecting the others? Or I'm just trying to get a sense of if there's some other factor that we're not thinking of that may be impacting those other brands.
Or would you say even if it's not the Carnival brand itself it's still the impact of those issues affecting the other brands? Well what I've said is that both Princess and Holland America are going to have solid performances in 2014.
What we don't know -- when we all focus on yields you may get the wrong piece of information because there's so much mix elements in terms of moving itineraries around making investments in new markets and so on that can be affecting it.
So I -- we can give you much better guidance on this in the December call but we don't really have that information right now.
The next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions for Arnold.
One is when do you expect to finalize your contract? What kind of metrics might you be looking for in your own contract? And when can we look for some sense of where that's all going? And then secondly you mentioned that there might be some opportunities for expense reduction.
While well aware that with almost 100 ships that can take some time do you think about that as a multiyear process? Or are there immediate expense reductions that you might be able to talk about in December? Okay Steve concerning the contract I suspect that will be finalized at the upcoming board meeting in October.
And then at that time we can -- coming out of that we can talk about metrics for next year.
This year the metrics are well established in the compensation plans.
And I own those along with the rest of the leadership team for this year.
I think they've been publicly discussed before.
Concerning -- what was your second question? Expense reduction.
Oh the expense reduction yes.
I think certainly there are opportunities immediately that under Howard's direction and Micky's people are already working on.
And so we have been realizing cost savings for some time and will continue to do so in terms of immediate opportunities.
And then as we look at it and look at our total spend and the opportunity to leverage across the brands I think there will be opportunities additional opportunities for cost savings.
But that's what we're going to review in these plans coming up and then subsequent to me hearing all of those and meeting with the rest of the leadership team to identify some targets.
And we'll be in a better position to talk about that in the coming months.
The next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So I was interested in your effort to sell or lay-up a couple of Costa ships.
Is there a broader plan here to at least begin reducing capacity? Yes I think that we've said for some time that part of the plan that the new building capacity that we'd contracted for part of it was replacement capacity and that it was our intention to sell off older smaller ships less-efficient ships.
In this particular case though it got to the point where because the second-hand market is so weak that we now considered laying ships up or selling them at very low price or even scrap.
And so because of that we took the decision.
In fact one of the Costa ships that we've written down is being laid up this fall.
And the other one a final decision hasn't been taken but she's clearly on the market for sale.
So we're trying to move more aggressively to move out this older tonnage.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of what percentage of your fleet could be considered for moving it out? Well the -- one of the problems we have is except for these 2 ships all the rest contributes.
So -- but obviously we're taking a hard look at everything.
But no I can't -- yes one of the problems is of course because it's smaller capacity in the overall scheme things 1 new building is 3x or 4x or 5x the size of 1 ship that we scrap or sell.
Harry keep in mind these 2 ships were ships that we never -- we didn't build.
These are ships that came through the acquisition of Costa or another brand that we probably wouldn't have built there -- which we would not have built because of their sizes.
So they were smaller ships and during low-yielding periods like we're in right now for Costa they don't they're not generating positive cash flows so we've decided to either write them down or sell them scrap them.
Research Division</strong> And my second question is -- goes back to Steve's question but it's perhaps a little bit broader.
For Arnold what -- I'm just wondering what are some of the broader initiatives that you're considering? There has been some discussion about the centralization of resources which could be an interesting source of cost savings.
And then the second question is and this is really for Micky do you -- is it -- what is your perspective on giving Arnold enough of a rein to actually execute some of these changes? Well I know I think that...
Yes go ahead.
[indiscernible] going first.
Arnold has full authority for being in the board to do and to recommend to the board whatever he feels is the right way to go.
And while I'm happy to assist him and give him whatever advice he needs my focus is only to do whatever I can to make him mutually successful.
So if he feels strongly that he wants to go in any particular direction I will support him 100%.
So to him it's a clean slate and I'm sure he's looking at it that way.
And I'm as interested as you are to see where we go from here.
Yes first of all Micky has given me total freedom of flexibility and he's been extremely supportive.
I'd be foolish not to take advantage of all of his experience and time in the business and certainly we'll continue to do that but I feel no constraint whatsoever at an operating level.
He's an outstanding delegator and he definitely stands behind his people and so I'm very very comfortable in doing what we need to do.
But it is still premature.
And so we have upcoming plan meetings and has the rest of the process here for me.
And then I'll meet with the leadership team and we'll align around the best way forward.
I don't imagine any big dramatic changes but obviously there'll be some changes and we'll discover those together as we finish up through the plan process and then meet with the leadership team right after that.
In terms of the overall opportunity though it's not so much centralization or decentralization and all of that.
The reality is obviously we have scale.
Today if you rolled up -- the other publicly traded cruise companies and perhaps if you roll them all up their net income would not equal what ours is even in this period.
And so we have a tremendous advantage of scale with 10 very powerful brands.
And leveraging that in all ways both from a revenue-generating way as well as cost management way bodes well for our future.
And we have opportunity to do that and we will find the most effective ways to do that.
The next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clarifications.
You said that you've seen trends improve in both the Costa and the Carnival brands.
So just again to clarify you're -- the Carnival brand pricing has stabilized you're saying but obviously at lower year-over-year levels.
That would be question one.
And then I think you made a statement that you've made a decision with the Carnival brand to hold price with the willingness to sacrifice some occupancy.
Can you kind of comment the decision to do that? Because I think post the Costa Concordia accident you may -- you wanted to do that and then you said "Wait that's not the right -- what we need to be doing." And you've reversed course and dropped price to gain occupancy.
So just maybe compare and contrast those 2 decisions with those brands.
Okay Tim I'll -- what I -- on the Carnival comments with our Carnival brand and Costa indeed a very -- their improvements are very very different because Costa is well on its way 18 months later from their incident to start to show year-over-year improvements in yield which we experienced in 2013.
We'll continue to experience for the yield improvements in 2014.
Carnival is much more in the formative stages of recovery.
So early stages of recovery.
So what we're seeing in the Carnival brand is continuing increases in volumes.
They fell considerably behind on occupancy so in order to stimulate -- as you know in order to stimulate demand we put lower prices out there to get the booking volumes up.
And we've seen a good response to that especially in the last 12 weeks and the last 6 weeks and so on.
But there's still considerable catch-up to do.
So when you're thinking of catch-up you're not quite sure "Are things are -- is pricing stable?" It's hard exactly to say because pricing is so dynamic day to day.
But I wouldn't -- I don't know that I have an answer to that but clearly we're seeing significant improvement in demand recently.
And I think with the new marketing going out right now plus the outreach program for the travel agents we've seen some nice upticks on our various distribution channels so -- and the number of hits we're getting on our websites and so on.
So it's a very -- we're seeing very positive trending right now.
That will -- it will take time for that to translate into improved pricing and hopefully we'll start to see that in the second half of the year of 2014.
I'll let Carnival (sic) [Arnold] comment on the pricing occupancy on Carnival.
Yes in terms of the holding price that's -- we're open-minded about different pricing approaches and the world constantly changes and evolves.
And so we are doing some testing in Carnival now to see if holding the price on certain itineraries can break a cycle of some of our repeat guests from waiting till the last minute to book thinking they're going to get a better price.
When these issues happen like at Triumph or whatever the real pressure is on the new to cruise.
Most of those people who have cruise extensively they continue to cruise they're not taken aback by these events.
And certainly there are a lot of brand loyalists because there's actually not as much overlap between the brands with repeat guests as some people might think.
So the real issue is the new to cruise and then there's pressure there.
And so we're now going to experiment a bit and see if there's ways we can accelerate the full pricing recovery.
And that's one of the things the Carnival brand opted for in the fourth quarter it was on certain itineraries to test that.
Can I just add? Because I believe the question was inaccurate.
The decision at Costa was to hold price and not buy and filling [ph] the ships for a couple of quarters.
And we did that for a few quarters.
And then as the perception of the brand started to improve this strategy started to change.
So it's not that we changed at all.
But certainly we did go a couple of quarters with significant below full occupancy at Costa.
And the fact is right now Carnival's talking about going a quarter or 2 or whatever and leaving some cabins if necessary.
The good thing by the way as part of their Carnival Conversations program they've been able to use these cabins for travel agents which is fantastic because the agents get to see the upgraded Fun Ship 2.0 product and hopefully encourages them to sell more in the future.
So that could be a win-win as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one last question related to the Caribbean.
Granted there are different dynamics between what the Carnival brand and what your competitors are doing but collectively Caribbean capacity from the whole industry is increasing.
How do you see -- I guess a better way to ask the question is how do you see the Caribbean pricing with what your competitors are doing relative to the non-Carnival brands in your fleet? They did increase in Caribbean as in the second half is there? [indiscernible] in the quarter which we don't have much visibility [indiscernible] at this time.
It's just too early.
It's too early to say Tim.
Our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva from Infinity Research.
Congratulations on the [indiscernible] project.
That was quite fantastic to watch and I'm happy that it turned out well.
One quick question on Caribbean pricing and one follow on Tim's line of questioning.
It seems that during Q3 the Carnival brand had recovered somewhat.
Do you expect to see any last-minute improvement in pricing? Or do you expect to actually lower pricing? I guess when you say the Carnival brand recovered you mean in terms of volumes higher demand.
Is that...
Pricing.
In terms of pricing because I can't crack your database so I can't know volume.
No I don't know the exact answer but I would say generally there's quite a bit of catch-up to do on getting back to historically higher occupancies for Carnival before they can start to move the pricing.
So I think that's going to take a while.
Exactly the difference between Q3 and Q4 and Q1 of 2014 it's hard to say right now other than on an absolute basis.
But clearly if we continue -- if they continue to run these large volumes and we're very encouraged by with everything else that's going on in the marketplace for them right now it's a very positive sign.
But likely we don't expect to see positive yield year-over-year improvement until the third and fourth quarter of...
We you do have a natural third quarter phenomenon that families a pre-school family that haven't made vacation plans have postponed it because of the economy or whatever come into the market very often late.
And so there tends to be in the third quarter this natural push for vacations and particularly family vacations.
And so Carnival being a very very big family brand we'll see a natural push.
But that disappears once school's back in and -- in the fall and the demographics changes in the fall.
So you could see it something in the third quarter that may not translate to the fourth.
And Micky that is very helpful.
And basically I was asking the question whether that can translate into Q4 or Q1 given how important the Caribbean is in those 2 quarters.
Well in Q1 we have a different phenomenon.
In Q1 it starts getting cold November December and you start getting the snow hurdles.
And so you do have certain demand criteria in Q1 that might help you last minute.
That doesn't tend to be there in Q4.
Q4 is always the most -- historically for 40 years it's been the toughest quarter of the year.
And it is in good times and bad times.
Even in good times Q4 tends to be tough.
But Q1 the challenge of course is all the capacity that comes from Alaska and from Europe to the Med to -- sorry to the Caribbean.
There's a massive increase in capacity every year but there isn't that massive increase in demand from the cold weather.
And hopefully we'll get a nice cold snap early this year and helps our Caribbean first quarter.
The next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys remind us what percentage of capacity is booked at this point for the first and second quarter just so we could think about what sort of improvement you might get from your advertising exposure in the rest of the year? And then can you also talk about what sort of advertising channels you might be thinking of using if you're targeting more travel agents or consumers and how that's split up? As far as the percentage that are booked the numbers the ranges that we generally talk about are for the next quarter which would be the fourth quarter will be 85% to 95% booked; the second quarter out which is the first quarter 50% to 70%; and then the second quarter which is 3 quarters out 30% to 50% booked.
And we have indicated recently that we're at the lower end of those ranges as far as booking patterns are concerned.
On the advertising channels I mean we use all -- right now we're using all our advertising to -- we're on national TV with the Carnival -- with the new Carnival campaign but we're also going to do more consumer print.
We do -- we're now back into trade magazines.
We're doing radio as well.
We're doing local TV we're doing local radio.
I mean it -- we're all over the...
Princess recently started a new program where they're advertising on the mall directories as well.
They think that's a good spot for them.
So as Howard said we're all over.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's pretty much as it has been in the past.
I thought maybe there was just a change in -- getting in front of people maybe.
No there has been significant changes.
We haven't been on national TV in a long time.
I don't know how many years but many many years we haven't been on national TV and never been in this kind of levels in the fall.
We have been out of trade advertising for a while and we're back in trades.
So -- and I don't recall that we did that much radio.
So our focus the last few years has really been Internet search direct mail email that kind of advertising.
Now we're back in virtually all media.
And I think [indiscernible] we had also upped the amount of investment in advertising as well from the fourth quarter.
So the total spend and the total level of activity has increased.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Jamie Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering how temporary some of these cost increases are for next year.
You talked about a step up in marketing and advertising more agents for dry docks.
Could any of those actually reverse in 2015 so we can sort of think about next year as like a sort of transition year in terms of costs? It's very early to say.
I mean there are some possibilities.
The dry docks are significantly longer because of the vessel enhancement.
But as I mentioned and the advertising is a function of the effectiveness of the ads and the yield increases that we get from it.
There are some things like insurance premiums which hopefully over time maybe we can work our way back down but the investments in the products and a few of the other things are very possible that they're more permanent.
So it's a mixed bag but it's very early to say at this point which -- how much of the total increase would be permanent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question just in terms of the shape of the yields in the first half just to give us a feeling for the trajectory.
I think Arnold you said given the tougher comps for Carnival it sounds like Q1 is going to be worse than Q2.
Is that sort of fair? And can you give us a sort of rough flavor of the difference please? I think he said the...
Are you talking about yields Jamie? Yields...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes yes.
He's talking perhaps [ph] directionally.
[indiscernible] is correct yes.
Research Division</strong> And for Q2 it would still be negative as well as Q1? That is correct.
Most --- more than likely yes.
The -- keep in mind that we -- the Triumph occurred last February.
And then we had the Carnival Dream in March.
And so it's really most of the second quarter was booked.
And as a result it's more difficult comparisons in the first act -- or the second quarter than the back half of next year.
So [indiscernible].
Mr.
Frank it appears that there are no further questions at this time.
Okay thank you all very much for listening in.
Beth will be available for follow-on calls after we hang up.
We wish everybody a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday December 19 2013.
I will now like to turn the conference over to Arnold Donald President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kelly.
And good morning thank you for joining us today and a sincere happy holidays to everyone.
With me today is our Chairman Micky Arison; our Chief Financial Officer David Bernstein; our Vice President of Investor Relations Beth Roberts.
And as Kelly pointed out I am Arnold Donald President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corporation &amp; plc.
We'll begin with David Bernstein for a review of our financial performance and outlook and then I will share some prepared remarks before we open it up for the Q&amp;A session.
David? Thank you Arnold.
Before I begin please note that I must -- that some of our comments on this call will be forward looking.
I must refer you to the cautionary statements in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currency as this is a much more meaningful measure of business trends.
What I'm going to do is start by walking you through the third quarter of 2013.
I'll then recap the full year 2013 give you some insight on the current booking trends and then talk about the guidance for 2014.
As part of the guidance I will give you some explanation on how we reviewed the 2014 cost increase from what we said on the previous conference call.
For the fourth quarter our non-GAAP EPS was $0.04.
The fourth quarter came in $0.04 above the midpoint of our September guidance.
This was driven by better-than-expected revenue yields for both net ticket and net onboard.
This occurred mainly at Carnival Cruise Lines and was worth $0.05 a share.
We also had lower fuel prices and favorable FX rates which was worth $0.02 a share.
All of this favorability was partially offset by the 3% -- or the $0.03 of higher cost.
Now let's look at the fourth quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 3%.
Our total net revenue yields in the fourth quarter declined 2%.
I will break apart for you the 2 components of total net revenue yields: net ticket yields and net onboard and other.
First net ticket yields.
Our net ticket yields declined 3% and this was driven by the North American brands that were down 6% due to promotional pricing at Carnival Cruise Lines and lower yields at the premium brands.
Our EAA brands were up almost 2% driven by increases at Costa that were partially offset by declines in our other European brands.
Net onboard and other yields increased just over 1%.
Our EAA brands experienced an almost 2% increase that was tempered by flat yields at our North American brands.
However our North American brands did show a nice improvement from the third quarter.
On the cost side net cruise costs per available lower berth day excluding fuel were up 6.5% versus the prior year and this was driven by vessel enhancements and higher advertising expense as we invested to accelerate our recovery.
This increase was a bit more than we expected in our September guidance but that was mostly due to the timing of certain expenses between the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014.
In summary the fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.10 lower than last year.
It was driven by lower net ticket yields and higher net cruise costs without fuel partially offset by improved fuel consumption and lower fuel prices.
Recapping the full year 2013.
This past year was impacted by voyage disruptions at Carnival Cruise Lines and as a result the earnings for 2013 were down.
Our non-GAAP EPS was $1.58 versus $1.94 for the prior year.
The decrease was driven by a number of things: lower net revenue yields costing $0.42; and higher net cruise costs without fuel which cost us $0.40.
However both of these were partially offset by lower fuel consumption per ALBD of 5.3% which was worth $0.17; lower fuel prices worth $0.14; and everything else together was about $0.15.
For 2013 our total net revenue yields were down 2.6%.
The North American brands were down 3% and again this was driven by promotional pricing at Carnival Cruise Lines.
However I will say we were very pleased that the surveys show a significant recovery in the brand perception at Carnival Cruise Lines since the voyage disruptions.
We benefited from this in the fourth quarter and we expect to benefit from it going forward.
In addition at Costa the surveys were also very encouraging.
They showed an improvement in brand perception and that led to a 4% yield increase from the prior year.
Although Costa had a nice yield recovery it was more than offset by our other European brands and that resulted in about a 2% decline in yields for our EAA brands.
On the cost side a 4.6% increase in net cruise costs excluding fuel was driven by a number of factors: voyage disruptions and related repair costs; higher advertising spend; our investments in new market development initiatives in Japan China and Australia; the vessel enhancement expenses; higher insurance premiums; and lastly a charge from a closed pension plan for certain British officers.
Turning to our cash flows for 2013.
The cash provided by operations was $2.8 billion.
And our CapEx net of asset sales were $2.1 billion which left us almost $800 million of free cash flow that was returned to shareholders via the regular quarterly dividend.
Looking forward to 2014.
Given our expectations for lower yields in the first half of 2013 which includes the down 3% to 4% for the first quarter and despite an improving trend positive yields in the back half of 2014 and improving brand perceptions for both Carnival Cruise Lines and Costa we are expecting yields for the year to be down slightly.
However keep in mind that it is early.
Wave season is still a few weeks away.
There is a large capacity increase in the Caribbean starting in the second quarter.
And also we still face ongoing challenging economic environments in Southern Europe.
Turning to recent booking trends.
For the first half of 2014 fleetwide volumes during the last 13 weeks have been running well ahead of the prior year outpacing capacity at prices that are lower.
Despite the recent high volumes the cumulative bookings for the first half on a fleetwide basis are still behind at lower prices.
As a result of the booking trends we are expecting lower yields in the first half.
Our North American brands are impacted by challenging comps from the first half of last year as they will book prior to the voyage disruptions that occurred in February.
Our EAA brands face ongoing economic environment challenges in Southern Europe the loss of the attractive Red Sea program and a close-in booking curve that is impacting their first half.
For the third quarter which by the way is still in the early stages of development the cumulative fleetwide booking status is that occupancies are similar to last year while pricing is flat.
While our expectations for this quarter are tempered by the large capacity increase in the Caribbean with a solid cumulative booking status better booking patterns and the first half ramped-up advertising efforts we are expecting positive yields in the third quarter.
That's why we are forecasting an improving trend as we move from the first to the second quarter and then to the back half of the year.
Looking at our booking patterns by program for each of our 2 segments.
For our North American brands I'll walk you through the Caribbean Alaska and the seasonal European program.
The Caribbean is behind on both price and occupancy and this represents 60% of the first half and over 40% of the third quarter capacity for the North American brands.
Alaska is behind on price but well ahead on occupancy.
Recent booking volumes have been solid which bodes well for pricing on the remaining inventory.
The seasonal European program for our North American brands is showing signs of strength particularly in the peak summer season which falls into our third quarter where we are up nicely in both price and occupancy.
For our EAA brands the year-round European program which represents over 60% of the EAA brands' capacity we are seeing a sequential improvement in year-over-year pricing in each quarter from the first to the third quarter for this program.
Booking volumes for these European programs for the last 13 weeks have been nicely higher as well.
Now let me switch to costs and give you some color on net cruise costs excluding fuel for 2014.
We now expect cost per ALBD to be up only slightly for 2014 even as we continue to invest in the future.
This is a much better than the indication that we gave on the September call.
At that time I did say that the numbers were preliminary and that we would be visiting each of our operating companies to review their 2014 plans.
A number of factors came together to reduce the increase.
As I previously mentioned our year-over-year comparison did benefit from the timing of certain expenses between the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014 and that resulted in about a 0.5 point year-over-year impact.
In addition we found ways to do some of the vessel enhancements in service thereby reducing dry dock days in 2014.
Furthermore through increased collaboration and cooperation amongst our operating companies we do expect to see cost reductions in a number of areas.
For 2014 we are also benefiting from favorable exchange rates and lower fuel prices as well as some investments we made in fuel consumption and we do expect an additional 4% improvement in fuel consumption for the year.
So putting all these factors together for 2014 our non-GAAP EPS guidance is $1.40 to $1.80 per share with a midpoint that is similar to 2013's non-GAAP EPS.
At this point I will turn the call back over to Arnold.
Okay thank you David.
Although 2013 was clearly a challenging year for our company we nevertheless enjoyed several significant accomplishments.
So for example we made real progress in our Asia growth strategy doubling our cruise presence in China and successfully launching an inaugural home port in Japan.
We opened 5 China offices; a second office in Japan; as well as offices in South Korea Taiwan Hong Kong and Singapore all of which will support our 2014 Asian sourcing which is again expected to double.
We are moving quickly to ensure that we are well positioned to capitalize in this important growth region.
Also in 2013 through our 2 innovative new ships AIDAstella and Royal Princess through ship retirements and through new technology we have enhanced our fleet and improved efficiency.
AIDAstella and Royal Princess are both among the most efficient ships at sea today from both a unit cost and fuel efficiency standpoint which allows them to produce returns significantly higher than our fleet average.
We are also -- retired a smaller less-profitable Costa vessel.
Of course the upgrading of our fleet is a continuous process.
We also announced a more efficient Seabourn ship to replace the 3 smaller original ships in 2016.
And in 2013 we announced many exciting new product features to our guest experience taking our guest experience to new heights including several new dining concepts American TABLE American FEAST as well as the continued rollout of the extremely popular Guy’s Burger Joint developed with Food Network personality Guy Fieri.
We intend -- we introduced new bar concepts as well including the industry's first shipboard brewery that brews beer from purified seawater on our AIDA line the Latin-infused Havana bar; as well as the continued rollout of the cocktail-pharmacy-themed Alchemy Bar the E&amp;A -- EA SPORTS Bar and the very popular RedFrog Pub all on our Carnival brand.
We introduced new entertainment concepts including a Vegas-like water-and-lights show on deck on Princess; Dancing with the Stars: At Sea our partnership with the hit ABC show in the U.S on our Holland America Line; and on our P&amp;O U.K.
line Strictly Come Dancing partnering with BBC in the U.K.; as well as the continued rollout of the popular B.B.
King's Blues Club on Holland America and the Hasbro game show and the Punchliner Comedy Club presented by George Lopez on the Carnival line.
For families we unveiled Carnival Seuss at Sea an exclusive partnership with Dr.
Seuss Enterprises; additional WaterWorks aqua parks; a new ropes course; and an interactive laser game on the Costa line.
Our product offering for guests across our fleet has never been better and there will be more exciting announcements after the New Year.
This year we also embarked upon a number of travel agent outreach programs domestically and abroad.
We are gaining traction with our newly introduced Agent Matters program in the U.K.; and here in the U.S.
our Carnival Conversations launched in June.
That's truly resonated with our travel partners as we implemented a number of initiatives based on agent feedback making it even easier to sell a Carnival Cruise.
And as you know Carnival Cruise Lines also launched a creative new national advertising campaign featuring the vacation moment testimonials from some of our millions of fulfilled guests.
We also unveiled the Great Vacation Guarantee an unprecedented money back guarantee.
These efforts have already borne fruit as we have realized a significant improvement in brand perception and consideration for the Carnival line already restoring 75% of the drop in perception it experienced earlier this calendar year.
We have so far experienced a faster recovery for the Carnival brand than originally anticipated and our team is working very hard to keep that momentum going.
However we do recognize the limited visibility we have at this point to the peak summer season where we generate most of our annual profits and we are very cognizant of the particularly high-capacity growth for the core Caribbean product beginning in the second quarter.
So we maintain a level of caution in our focus on identifying additional signs that the pace of recovery we're experiencing is in fact sustainable.
We have taken a hard look at costs and attacked our challenges head on.
I'm very proud of the creativity in our team to execute successfully at lower costs than originally anticipated and very importantly without compromising without compromising on critical investments we need to make to provide the foundation for the growth we expect in return on invested capital earnings and free cash flow over time.
In my first 6 months I have affirmed what I knew at a visceral level as a board member: the inherent strength of this organization clearly lies in our people.
They are passionate and they are dedicated worldwide.
Our core product is clearly the best vacation value there is and of course our scale gives us tremendous opportunity for improved performance.
We have more than 100 ships and 10 million guests each year twice that of the next largest player the industry.
With 78 million passenger cruise days we have a tremendous opportunity to accelerate earnings growth by leveraging our scale.
Operating our brands independently has been successful and it has led to our industry-leading position.
The brands will remain independent especially at the guest interface level as they become increasingly distinct in the psychographics of the guests they source and they service.
Going forward we do plan to change the focus of our efforts in how we work together across the brands to enable us to leverage our scale.
And we want to leverage it far more than we have historically through greater communication through collaboration and through cooperation across the 10 brands.
We will more fully capitalize on the inherent opportunity that our scale affords us.
We have already announced a realignment of our leadership team and have begun to change our work processes and our incentive structure to facilitate these efforts.
Our reconfigured leadership team has identified a plethora of opportunities to work together both on the revenue side and the cost side.
On the revenue side we are collaborating on onboard revenue initiatives and revenue management practices including consolidating our efforts toward optimizing our pricing models.
On the cost side we are increasing cooperation on procurement inventory management and port planning.
We have begun to mine our opportunities by sizing and prioritizing these and many other initiatives.
Our leadership team is driven around the principle that we have the greatest vacation value there is.
It is difficult given the diversity of incredible vacation moments we offer it is difficult if not impossible for guests to achieve the same fulfillment with a land vacation at anywhere near the cost or ease that characterizes our cruise vacations.
The inherent value is so great we simply need to consistently exceed guest expectations make certain that each guest experiences the brand that's right for them and ensure that they are just wowed when they leave and that wowed is W-O-W-E-D wowed.
A thrilled guest will advocate for our brands word of mouth is the most influential method to stimulate new demand.
As we increase advocacy for our product that demand will drive ticket prices higher.
Over time we expect to benefit from the combined efforts of our leadership team and our 120 000-plus global employees.
We will continue to invest in prudent ways to accelerate the recoveries in Costa and Carnival that are already underway.
And we are ardently focused on delivering a customer experience that surpasses even the high levels we achieve today driving greater advocacy in each of our brands.
We will capitalize on our tremendous product attributes and our industry-leading scale and through our combined efforts I have great confidence in our ability to execute and deliver on the expectations that we have set for ourselves realizing our company's true earnings power and driving significant free cash flow and importantly delivering against our objective of returning our company to double-digit returns on invested capital.
Kelly we'd now like to open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Robin Farley from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First is I wonder if you could comment on kind of occupancy on the Carnival brand.
In particular you have talked about holding occupancy length.
Price dropped a little bit in Q4.
I'm just wondering to what degree you did that in Q4 and how you will approach that going forward.
And then secondly your comments about the EAA brands being up 2% but with others -- Costa up and others down is that suggesting that Costa's pricing was up maybe 5% or something? I just would love to hear a little more color on that because that would be very encouraging.
Sure.
As far as the occupancy is concerned we did see Carnival sail with some empty cabins in the back half of the year.
That was just a couple of points of occupancy down from their historic numbers.
The EAA brands keep in mind that there are 6 brands in total.
The Costa yields were actually up double digits in the fourth quarter and the other brands were down and offset that which is how we wound up with the overall 2%.
Research Division</strong> And so is it reasonable to think that the Costa brand if this is the first quarter of pricing recovery that rate of recovery would continue in the next couple of quarters for Costa as well? We did see pricing recovery but it is early given the booking trends where it is early.
And when -- we don't normally give specific guidance by brand as we move forward.
But keep in mind for Costa the deployment has changed quite a bit and particularly in the winter.
Our next question comes from Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David thanks for the color on how the cost guidance changed.
I know a lot of people were worrying -- wondering about that this morning.
You mentioned that -- in addition to some of the color you gave us you mentioned that the company is going to see cost reductions in a number of areas which is a bit of a generic way to describe that.
So just wondering if you could give us some specific examples of how that -- how you are seeing cost reductions there.
And as we think about the various cost line items that drive your overall net cruise costs x fuel wondering about how we should think about each of these for '14 in other words how to think about payroll and food and SG&amp;A that sort of thing.
Robin -- I'm sorry Felicia sorry.
I don't want to go into all the detailed line items in terms of cost on a year-over-year basis because there's a lot of changes.
There's product initiatives that we're investing in.
There's a number of areas we found cost savings.
But I think I can provide a little additional color.
I mean Arnold had mentioned the cooperation and collaboration in areas like ports and procurement and inventory management.
The way these things translate I'll give you an example: In North America we looked at all the commercial printing.
There were over 70 vendors that we were using on -- for different types of printing.
We rationalized those vendors.
We got better contracts for all the brands collectively.
We now only have a handful of vendors each doing different things.
And we're saving millions of dollars.
This is particularly important when you think about the fact that Carnival Cruise Lines is committed to now printing brochures again which will -- they can do in a much more efficient manner and save us some additional money.
So it's things like that that will bode well for 2014.
And there's lots of little examples that add up to many millions of dollars around the corporation.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the revenue side the pricing survey work that we do implies that the company -- or just the -- some of the brands are doing some significant base loading in the second quarter.
I was just wondering if you could talk about the traction you're getting as you're trying to implement that strategy.
And when you look out that far are you seeing a more normalized booking curve? As I think I had indicated I mean the booking volumes for the first half are up but they are up at lower prices.
Clearly as we've said a number of times over the last year where we are we are at the lower end of -- or slightly below our historical booking curve.
So we are trying to catch up.
We are encouraged by the volumes.
And so it's hard to relate to the scraping that you do because the scrapings in many cases only relate to prices on a few cabins and not to the overall yield trend for us.
So hopefully that provides you some additional color.
Our next question comes from Steven Kent from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sure a couple of questions.
First are you -- on close-in bookings are you seeing any improvement as you get closer to departure? And then more broadly on the Costa and Carnival brands any sense on when those brands recover to pre-incident levels? On the recovery -- this is Arnold.
On the recovery of Costa and Carnival we said in previous calls that traditionally other industries other incidents 2 to 3 years for recovery.
The Costa recovery has been impeded somewhat by the weak European economy and just the weakness in a lot of the markets where Costa sources their passengers.
But we are seeing lifting in yields and occupancy in Costa but the recovery may take longer than the 2- to 3-year norm that [Audio Gap] Our next question comes from Harry Curtis from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on a couple of prior questions.
Can you give us a sense of -- your cumulative bookings for the first half of the year you said they're still behind.
Can you put a number behind that in terms of your occupancy today looking into the first quarter versus where it was a year ago? Or I'm just wondering to what extent you're behind.
[Technical Difficulty] Sorry everyone it seemed to have dropped.
We have no idea what happened but we apologize.
I'm not sure exactly where we dropped and where we were in the comments.
So I'll just repeat the answer to the question to make sure we covered it.
Concerning the Costa and Carnival as I was saying the Costa recovery has been somewhat impaired by the weak situation in the European markets where a number of the passengers are sourced.
So we are seeing some delay.
However the Costa yields are trending up as is occupancy.
With regards to Carnival we've experienced some accelerated recovery in Carnival experiencing that and especially here in the fourth quarter the fourth quarter that just closed but we are cautious looking forward to make certain we have a clear view after the wave season given the added capacity that's going into the Caribbean.
But at this point certainly the Carnival recovery is a little bit ahead of that 2- to 3-year time frame that is conventional kind of thinking concerning recovery of brands that have suffered incidents.
And as far as the question about the last-minute bookings for the fourth quarter clearly the last-minute bookings were strong and better than we expected particularly at Carnival Cruise Lines which is why we exceeded the guidance.
We have anticipated within our guidance for 2014 good bookings throughout the year particularly the last minute which is all baked into our best estimate of guidance where yields are down slightly for the year.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Jaime Katz from the Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit more about some of the advertising and marketing spend you guys are doing in 2014 and how you expect the cadence of that to occur? And then just any changes to your CapEx spending in the years ahead would be helpful.
Yes I'll comment on the advertising spend to an extent and then I'll have David comment additionally on the CapEx.
Concerning advertising in the fourth quarter we clearly invested heavily in Carnival but we also invested across a number of other brands to generate demand.
And that is continuing into the first quarter of next year.
For the full year we'll be substantially ahead in 2014 in total advertising spend versus what we spent say in 2012.
And we'll also have an increase over what we've spent cumulatively in 2013 as well.
So we are investing more heavily broadly in advertising and promotion to stimulate demand.
David? Sure.
Yes the expected CapEx for 2014 is $2.9 billion.
For '15 it's $2.8 billion; and for '16 it's $2.9 billion.
And we have a follow-up question from Harry Curtis.
Research Division</strong> So the question I was coming back to was just your cumulative bookings.
You mentioned we're still behind for the first half of 2014 and I was wondering if you could put a little more color behind that.
Yes Harry we don't get into a lot of detail.
I mean we are a couple of -- a number of percentage points behind.
A lot of this has to do with what happened throughout 2013.
But in some cases some of our brands felt that they would rather be patient.
We could have moved the booking curve closer in by lowering price but in many cases you're better off being patient waiting holding your price knowing very well that the bookings will come at a higher price.
So we are trying to manage that as we always do and hopefully we will maximize the yields for 2014.
Research Division</strong> So at this point you're just not -- they're close enough to last year that you're not panicking in other words.
Oh no no no.
It -- believe me if -- we never let the bookings get too far behind.
The -- we're always carefully managing that on a voyage-by-voyage cabin-by-cabin category basis.
And I think it's fair to say we...
Beth has a comment.
Go ahead.
It's fair to say we've gone up a few...
Percentage points over the last 13 weeks that's correct.
[indiscernible] bookings went up [ph]? Yes.
Yes the booking volumes [indiscernible] 13 weeks have been significantly better and we did catch up a few points.
Research Division</strong> And then moving to my second question.
Regarding Asia can you just remind us how much capacity that you have there now and what your plans are to expand and expectation for pricing and kind of returns per berth versus what your other opportunities in Europe and in the Caribbean? Yes.
Overall Asia is probably about 5% of our capacity for 2014.
The yields in Asia are a little bit below the overall corporate average.
We have talked a lot about a continued expansion into Asia.
So you'll hear more about that in the future.
And as far as the returns keep in mind that it is early and we are continuing to invest particularly in the advertising and promotion throughout the region.
So it is fair to say that the returns in Asia at the moment aren't where we'd like them to be but we do expect over time for them to increase and we do expect it to be a solid part of our business in the future.
Expect to double the number [indiscernible].
Yes we've sourced 0.25 million passengers and we'll be doubling that to over 0.5 million in 2014.
Our next question comes from Steve Wieczynski from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So without actual quantitative yield guidance out there for 2014 you're just at this point saying down slightly.
What are maybe the 2 or 3 swing factors that could be -- that could be a brand that could be a specific market that would drive those yields either to positive territory say 1% or 2% or down 1% or 2%? That's a -- it's a tough question.
I think the whole concept here is as I said before it's early there's a lot of uncertainty.
The brands are recovering.
So it...
Pre-wave.
It's pre-wave.
So we're not giving a specific number but clearly we will have a much better indication during the wave season.
And so by the time we get to March I think we will be in a much better position because as we've said before that during the wave season a big chunk of the third quarter which as Arnold said is a lot of our profitability is booked so we'll have a much better feel for where we are for the year when we get to March.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then on the fuel consumption side you're forecasting that to be down again in 2014 which is pretty impressive given that that would be 3 years in a row.
So can you help us think about what's driving that consumption down and how much more of that is to come in the future? Yes.
Well I guess in terms of the future we've been consistently saying that there are so many things we're working on on the horizon.
And by the way we do have 101 ships so not every ship have we implemented every single fuel consumption savings yet.
So as the ships go into dry dock we continue to roll out new things.
And we do expect as we've said in the long term 2% to 3% fuel consumption reduction each year for about as far out as we can see.
We're talking 4% for next year.
We did a little bit better.
And these things come both in tweaking the itineraries and also in new technology that we put on board the ship.
One of the things that has been a great fuel saver is -- are the air conditioning the HVAC systems.
HVAC probably represents 25% of our fuel consumption.
And anybody who owns a house knows that if they install a new air-conditioning compressor versus maybe the 10- or 15-year-old one that they had in their house they're going to save on their electric bill.
Well the same thing works true on a cruise ship.
So we are -- that's part of our CapEx.
We are installing those things as well as lots of other things which create savings for us.
Our next question comes from Assia Georgieva with Infinity Research.
David maybe you can help me with a couple of quick questions.
Occupancy in Q2 versus Q1 do you feel that it is ahead? Or do you -- are you -- are the brands still holding on Q2? The whole first half was behind.
I didn't give any specific color by quarter but the whole first half is -- was behind at this moment but catching up.
Both quarters are catching up at this point.
The bookings for both quarters are good.
So that's why instead of going through the details for each quarter I just tried to give the whole first half summary.
And it's pretty much the same for first versus second except the first is further booked than the second at this point which is what you would expect.
Right.
And could you quickly give us the capacity increases by quarter? And you don't have to go through North American versus the EAA if you can just give us the quick number for the corporate total.
Sure.
Hang on one second.
Let's see the first quarter is 1.8%; second quarter 4.9%; third quarter 2.2%; third (sic) [fourth] quarter 2.5%...
Fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter 2.5%; and the full year is 2.8%.
Great.
This is very helpful.
And I will try to ask this question.
It probably won't get answered.
But when you use the same kind of language that Howard likes to use down slightly should we be thinking down 1% to 2% or down 3% for the fiscal 2014 yields? You were right at the start of the question.
Our next question comes from Ian Rennardson from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two or 3 questions please.
Would you consider retiring more ships? And if so how many in '14 and '15? Secondly could you give us some idea on your initial thoughts I know it's a long way away but on your cost x fuel for '15 what sort of plans do you have there in for 2015? I'm also slightly intrigued by the wide range of the earnings forecast at $1.40 to $1.80.
Why would you -- you've already said that you're behind on the historic booking curve so what gives you the -- even the comfort to give such a wide range as that? And then finally just could you just strip out of those CapEx numbers you gave David what is maintenance what is newbuild please? Okay concerning the first portion of the question in terms of lay up or selling off ships obviously we evaluate that on an ongoing basis all the time.
Clearly we took out a Costa vessel this year.
But if a vessel is not sustaining its contribution over time obviously we'll lay it up.
And then as some vessels age when there is a market -- and as you know there's not a big secondary market for these ships.
When there is a market we'll divest of it.
But that's an ongoing evaluation.
And we look for sustained indications to make a decision but we have no problems whatsoever laying up or discontinuing ships that are not contributing.
In terms of the costs for 2015 at this point I'd say that obviously we will continue with our focus on costs.
We will continue to invest to stimulate demand and innovate our products to drive ticket yields and revenues because that's the bigger engine but we will continue to focus on cost.
And through the collaboration and coordination across the brands we're expecting to show good cost performance going forward.
I think on the cost side the only thing I'd like to add is we have said a number of times that we expect net cruise costs excluding fuel to be flat to half of inflation in the long term.
We hope that we can do better than that and we strive to do better than that but that's a good starting point for guidance for '15 going forward.
As far as the range is concerned traditionally we had given a range of let's say $0.20 in December.
If you look back that's where most of the years were.
Because of the greater degree of uncertainty we widened the range.
And there wasn't any particular magic to the $0.40 range.
Keep in mind that every percentage point on yield is $0.15.
So what we're talking here is a range that maybe is a little over 2 percentage points on yield.
Percentage points of cost is $0.09.
So that's got to be factored in as well.
But that gives you some indication.
And we do feel comfortable with the range and that's why we put it out there.
I would also say with the issue of having 2 brand recoveries going on and being behind in booking patterns of how wave shakes out becomes increasingly important.
And so sitting here and having to give guidance before wave is just much more difficult in this situation than it would be in a normal operating environment.
So it was just a prudent decision to broaden the range.
And the last question as far as the CapEx is concerned for 2014 it's about $1.4 billion of non-newbuild.
It's also $1.4 billion for 2015.
And for 2016 it's about $1 billion of non-newbuild CapEx.
Research Division</strong> But just to confirm: no current plans to retire any ships in '14 or '15.
Not making any announcements today.
Right.
Yes no announcements.
Our next question comes from Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of other items here.
Can you just reframe for us -- the I think Costa yields in 2012 were down 15% you've stated that before.
And then we had some recovery.
Can you just remind us the recovery we've seen by year in Costa and then just how the Carnival brand yields impacted for the full -- were impacted for the full year? Sure.
Costa you're right it was down about 15% in 2012 and the recovery was 4% in 2013.
And we do expect to see continued recovery in 2014.
The Carnival yields keep in mind that the first half for -- particularly the first quarter for Carnival Cruise Lines was very strong.
So the yields for the year were down like in the mid-single digits.
The back half of the year was obviously a tad higher than that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then Arnold you talked about multiple initiatives here not only today but prior and it sounds like there's more detail still coming.
If we back up and as you've had some time now to frame everything is there any I guess guesstimate at this point as to what new normalized cost x fuel would be on a go-forward basis and I guess relative to where they were in '11 so pre-Concordia? Yes I would say that the comment David made earlier about keeping costs flat to half of inflation is the best guidance we can give at this point.
But clearly we're just beginning the process of building on the base of collaboration that existed across the brands and expanding on that significantly with incentives with processes et cetera in place to capitalize on it.
And as we find those opportunities and execute against them we'll share it along the way and the picture will reveal itself over time.
But at this point we do not have a new target set or anything of that sort.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly if you could give a little more color on the -- what was going on in the other North American premium brands? You called that out in your preamble that there were a little bit of pressures there.
Just a little more color on that please.
Well there is a combination of factors that have affected both Holland America and Princess.
Part of it is a portion of their business is sourced from Europe where in 2013 the consumer base was a bit weaker than it had been in the past and significantly weaker.
It's also fair to say that there has been a significant supply increase in the premium segment in some areas in recent years.
And our brands were coming from an above-industry-level performance in a number of the segments they participate in and continue to be above industry in a number of the segments.
So on a year-to-year comparison I think those are some of the contributors and there are others.
At the same time the team is working very hard to stimulate demand and improve it.
And we're very pleased with the response we're seeing right now in the booking volumes.
And particularly in Europe and we're very high on our premium brands.
Our next question comes from Patrick Scholes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> There was pretty negative investigative report out from CNN this week concerning the Triumph.
I wonder if you have any type of official response to that report.
Well I think the -- first of all the language quoted on the network that did it is not from our ticket contract.
They pulled some information out of context from a motion to dismiss the suit.
It's a frivolous suit.
We stand behind our product.
We stood behind it after the Triumph incident.
We immediately refunded passengers their cruise fare we gave them a future cruise.
We arranged for food and lodging and transportation.
And we gave each passenger an additional $500 to cover expenses.
Our ships our safe they're sound and they're sea worthy.
And we've always stood behind our product and we'll continue to do so.
But it's a frivolous suit.
I'm disappointed they got any airtime whatsoever.
And again even with that it was still mischaracterized on air.
Our next question comes from James Hollins from Investec.
Research Division</strong> Two questions from me please.
The first one is on the scrubbing technology.
I was wondering if the sort of technology you're putting in now would actually erase any issues around the stricter emission control air [ph] compliance coming in I believe 2015.
I think you've previously guided to that maybe being a $265 million extra cost in '15.
I was wondering if that is now sort of lower than that.
And the second one's a more generic question which you can choose to answer in any way you like Arnold.
But are the sort of changes you're putting through now -- obviously you've been there 6 months.
Are they -- should we consider them as sort of incremental changes to bring down the cost based? Or are you sort of starting a more fundamental cultural change within the group which should see quite a few changes in the way the actual business operates? Yes I think I'll answer the latter part first and then we'll get to your energy question.
But with regard to the culture it is a fundamental change in culture but is building on things that the leaders in the organization were kind of doing one-off or in pairs occasionally anyway and that is collaborating and coordinating okay? And so that is the culture change though because the brands were fiercely independent in the past and even protected information from each other.
And so it's absolutely a culture change.
Now in terms of the fundamental changes in how we work or the scale of targets and that sort of thing the reality is we just have scale.
So with 78 million passenger cruise days little tiny changes adds up -- add up to significant dollars tens and tens of millions of dollars and hundreds of millions of dollars.
And so while they're small changes they yield big impact.
And by working together communicating collaborating there are so many arenas that the team has already pre-identified.
And as I mentioned we're in the process of sizing those and prioritizing them from a complexity investment required time to realization all your normal things you would apply to prioritize projects and go after them.
So there are significant opportunities.
With regards to the energy and I'll let David make a few comments as well but first of all I just want to say that absolutely the scrubber technology helps us mitigate a lot of the emission standard costs that were referred to earlier.
And in fact with the scrubber technology we'll be well above the emission standards without having to burn in many instances the higher-grade fuel which clearly will mitigate those costs.
But I think David had a couple of other comments.
Go ahead David.
Yes.
The testing on the scrubbers still is very positive and everything seems to be going very well.
We're in the process of updating that calculation that you mentioned where last year we disclosed the $265 million impact.
At this point it's fair to say that more than the majority of that $265 million will disappear so the number will be less than half but it's a little early for me to give the exact number.
It's a complicated calculation that looks at all 101 ships and looks at the itineraries in 2014 that we have out there.
And we'll disclose -- some more details in our 10-K.
But it's fair to say it's more than the majority will disappear.
Our next question comes from Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
I guess first on fuel costs if you could talk about what you expect for that fuel cost per metric tonne for the full year I think that'd be helpful.
And then at the event in November you had talked about a few things including web traffic improving for the Carnival brand through November.
I'm just curious whether that's continued into December and if there are any corollaries to the marketing message you've been broadcasting for Carnival that are learnings that you could extrapolate to the other brands in terms of the marketing philosophy or methodology? Okay as far as the fuel price per metric tonne Sharon it was in the press release.
The full year is $650 per metric tonne on 3.2 million metric tonnes.
So that's our fuel expense for 2014.
As far as the web traffic is concerned I personally haven't gotten an update on that.
I will say that we have seen a uptick in overall web bookings from the prior year a couple of percent.
And as far as the marketing is concerned...
What was the question? Oh Sharon can you repeat the marketing question? Can you repeat the marketing question Sharon? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So it seems like you've had some success with the Carnival marketing and I'm just curious whether there are any learnings from what you've done with Carnival that could be extrapolated to the other brands? I think 2 things.
One is a little early to tell but I would say that I think the marketing the advertising campaign for Carnival helped all brands ours and others in the industry as well.
Even though it was for us Carnival-specific it gave a general cruise message as well and I think it helped everyone.
Each of the brands have their own particular marketing approach.
They are all investing heavily in that and we expect to see good results across the brands from their individual efforts.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up David.
Just so you know I don't think that table was actually included for the full year for fuel prices and so on -- oh wait now I see it.
Never mind.
It's okay.
No problem.
Okay not a problem.
People make that mistake once in a while.
And our last question comes from Richard Carter from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions please.
Firstly on marketing do you see the step-up in marketing costs this year as recurring? Or do you see the potential for them to step back down in 2015? And then secondly on onboard spend is it possible -- I think it was up 4% in Q4.
Can you break that down between North America and Europe? And it's obviously been improving now the last couple of quarters and some of your competitors have seen some very strong onboard spend inflection in the last couple of quarters.
So could you just talk a little bit about what's driving that as well please and if you can what your expectation and outlook is on onboard spend going into '14? On the marketing spend going into 2015 obviously we'll look at the results we get in 2014.
We'll make an assessment of whether pulse spending is the proper way to go in some of the brands.
And so it's too -- it'd be premature now to predict exactly what would occur in 2015 but what I can assure you is that we will invest we will learn from the investments and we'll continue to invest when we believe we can get a return for it.
And so if we invest more heavily in the future we would anticipate that it would be driving additional profits to the bottom line and more than likely yields as well at the ALBD level.
So that would be the comment on that.
Dave is trying to look up the other...
On the onboard spend overall for 2012 we were just up 0.5%.
I mean the fourth quarter in constant dollars was up 1.2%.
And I think I had said previously that the fourth quarter was driven by about a 2% increase in EAA and that was tempered by the North American yields being flat.
Flat in the fourth quarter for North America was an improvement I had indicated over the third quarter.
So the trend seems to be in the right direction.
Given where we were for 2013 what we built into the 2014 guidance was yields up a little over 1%.
We are doing lots of different things on the onboard revenue side to booster that number up.
Our operating companies some of them are continuing to roll out the all-inclusive drink program; the high-end photography; and other things.
So we are looking to see better yields and I hope we can beat that number.
I want to thank everyone for your support and interest in our company.
And thank you for being on the call.
A sincere happy holidays to everybody.
Kelly thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Carnival Corporation’s First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday March 25 2014.
I now have the pleasure to turn the conference over to Arnold Donald.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
This is Arnold and with me today is Micky Arison our Chairman; David Bernstein our CFO; and Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you all for joining us.
I’ll have a brief prepared statement to share and then David will follow me with some comments and then I’ll be back on to start question-and-answer session.
So first of all I’m very pleased to be able to share the better than expected performance in the first quarter and I find it affirming and consistent with the guidance that we have given for a year.
We have demonstrated progress in areas of challenge for our Carnival and our Costa brands and is very gratifying to see the initiatives that the Carnival brand has implemented begun to payoff.
In fact brand perception is most of the way back consideration among brand loyalist have previously recovered and now the new to cruise is back and we are working to complete perception recovery among switchers.
Interest is up dramatically and our Carnival brand is evidence by strong web activity and of course by previously announced record booking volumes in the quarter at Carnival Cruise Lines.
Going forward we are cautiously optimistic we will see pricing continue to firm and improve.
We are confident in our Carnival brand team and have been impressed with the measures taken in marketing and distribution in overall innovation.
Our product continues to get even better and what is truly the best vacation value at sea for that targeted guest segment is now even better.
Costa also continues on this role to financial improvement.
Costa achieved strong booking volumes during wave season and in fact we were almost up 50% year-over-year.
We have seen a continued improvement in perception within almost doubling of trust and confidence in the core Italian market.
We are very pleased with the recovery and yields achieved in Costa’s core European deployment in the first quarter as well as improved profitability through collaboration across the Continental European brands.
Across the Corporation attractive pricing for our guests during wave season has driven the desired result.
Our North American brands have caught up on occupancy compared to prior year while European brands have pushed out the booking curve tracking ahead on occupancy.
These trends build confidence that we are tracking to turn the corner beginning in the second half of 2014.
We remain focused on increasing demand on all fronts increasing advocacy by delivering an even better customer experience stepping up our public relations effort by raising our profile and relationship building with the media taking advantage of social media where much of the conversation takes place today and cultivating guests into proactive advocates.
We have increased our investment in advertising and expect to spend over $600 million in 2014 that’s a 20% increase over 2012 and we have launched new marketing campaigns in multiple regions.
For example in North America the Carnival brand was the national cruise line for Sochi Winter Olympics with a new creative targeting the family segment while Princess lines launched its first television campaign in 10 years.
In addition both Costa in Europe and P&amp;O in the U.K.
launched new advertising campaigns.
This increased investment and broad-based media buys supporting our efforts to attract the new to cruise where we have the greatest opportunity to create additional demand.
We remain committed to leveraging our scale and we are making meaningful progress toward that end.
We held a leadership forum among our top 70 employees globally and in earnest are beginning to align around common objectives to accelerate us down the path of continuous financial improvement.
Our global team is truly energized to achieve that success.
We have identified opportunity areas to leverage our scale both from a cost efficiency standpoint as well as a revenue generating standpoint.
Among our $6 billion of non-fuel non-people costs we are prioritizing areas where we believe we will find opportunity.
Crew travel and ports are two examples of large areas where we are conducting deeper dives.
We are still at early stage in sizing the opportunities in these and other categories and as we look across further brand collaboration across brand collaboration on travel costs for example primarily for our 90 000 global crew members as well as port costs for our more than 10 million guests and 100 plus ships.
We are encouraged with the progress we're making but we obviously still have a lot of work to do.
We are very excited about the road ahead.
We are away from realizing our full true potential but I'm very confident that we will get there over time.
And now I would like to turn it over to David Bernstein for a few comments.
David? Thank you Arnold.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this conference call will be forward-looking.
I must refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currency as this is a much more meaningful measure of our business trends.
I will start today with a summary of our first quarter results and then get into some more detail on the overall positive booking trends during the current wave season as well as the booking patterns by deployment for each of our two segments the North American brands and the European Australia and Asia brands known as our EAA brands.
I will finish up with an update on our full-year 2014 March guidance.
Our non-GAAP net income for the first quarter was $2 million.
I’m pleased to report that our first quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.09 above the midpoint of our December guidance and this was driven by better than expected net revenue yields at Carnival Cruise Lines and our Continental European brands worth $0.05 as well as lower than expected net cruise costs without fuel worth $0.04.
Now turning to our first quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 1.7%.
Our total net revenue yields declined just over 2%.
Let's look at the two components of total net revenue yields net ticket yields and net onboard and other.
First net ticket yields which declined 3% with decreases on both sides of the Atlantic.
Our North American brands were down 3.5% and that was driven by promotional pricing at Carnival Cruise Lines although I'm very glad to say that the pricing environment for last minute first quarter bookings was clearly better than we had expected.
Our EAA brands were down 2.5% with increases at Costa resulting from the continuing brand recovery which were more than offset by declines in our other major European brands.
Net onboard and other yields increased 1%.
Our EAA brand performed very well and were up over 4% but this was tempered by slightly down yields at our North American brands driven in part by lower occupancy at Carnival Cruise Lines.
Net cruise costs per available lower berth day excluding fuel was up 3.5% and that was driven by higher advertising spend as we invested to accelerate the recovery in ticket yields.
The increase was less than we had expected in our December guidance and that was due to the timing of advertising and certain other expenses between the quarters In summary the first quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.08 lower than the prior year and that was driven by lower net revenue yields higher net cruise costs without fuel which was partially offset by improved fuel consumption and slightly lower fuel prices.
Turning to our recent booking trends and yield expectations for the remainder of 2014.
As we indicated in the press release fleet-wide booking volumes during this year's wave season have been running almost 20% ahead of the prior year significantly outpacing capacity albeit at lower prices.
This pattern is the same for both our North American and EAA brand in all three quarters.
It's nice to see that some of the largest booking volume increases were at Carnival Cruise Lines and Costa as these brands continued their recovery.
As Arnold indicated cumulative booking -- fleetwide bookings are ahead and they are at lower prices.
This is the first time in a number of years we have indicated that cumulative bookings for the next three quarters were ahead of the prior year as our overall booking curve has started to lengthen.
While we are pleased with the new direction and we expect it to continue we’re currently still towards the lower end of our historical booking curve.
Despite these booking trends we continue to expect yields for the second quarter of 2014 to be down 3% to 4%.
While our EAA brands are forecasted term positive our North American brands are impacted by the more challenging comps in the second quarter of 2013 as the majority of those bookings were taken prior to the voyage disruptions that occurred in February of last year.
For the second half of 2014 with better cumulative booking status and ramped-up marketing efforts in the first half of the year which should benefit us in the second half we are expecting positive yields for both our North American brands and our EAA brands.
For the full year we are expecting net revenue yields to be down slightly which is the same as our December guidance.
While we exceeded our first quarter yield guidance mainly due to better-than-expected last minute Caribbean bookings at Carnival Cruise Lines our expectations for the Caribbean for the balance of the year remains unchanged.
We are being prudent with our full-year expectation given the large cruise industry capacity increase in the Caribbean as well as the slower than expected demand growth in Japan.
As you know Princess successfully ended the Japan homeporting market in 2013 with one ship for three months.
For 2014 Princess increased its capacity in Japan to two ships for about six months each.
While demand in Japan has grown considerably it has been somewhat less than anticipated.
While we are experiencing some growing pains in Japan we are still very bullish on the long-term prospects for this market.
Today Princess’ Japan homeporting represents only about 1% of our annual capacity.
Looking at booking patterns by deployment for each of our two segments first for our North American brands.
I will walk you through the Caribbean Alaska and their seasonal European program.
The Caribbean is behind on both price and occupancy and represents almost 50% of the remainder of the year for the North American brands.
Recent booking volumes have been excellent and we are catching up on occupancy albeit at promotional rate.
Alaska is behind on price but well ahead on occupancy which bodes very well for pricing on the remaining inventory.
The seasonal European program for our North American brands is strong.
We are well ahead on both price and occupancy.
For our EAA brands the year-round European program which represents 70% of the EAA brands capacity for the remainder of the year is behind on price but well ahead on occupancy.
Recent booking volumes have been substantially ahead of last year which again bodes well for pricing on the remaining inventory.
Switching to costs our full-year cost guidance also remains unchanged from December as we continue to expect net cruise costs excluding fuel to be up only slightly.
Putting all these factors together our 2014 non-GAAP EPS guidance is $1.50 to a $1.70 per share with the midpoint that is the same as our December guidance.
Given our higher confidence level we have simply narrowed the range reflecting our solid booking patterns with softness in Japan offsetting our better-than-expected first-quarter performance.
At this point I’ll turn the call back over to Arnold.
Thank you David.
Kim I think we're now ready to open it for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I guess I was going to ask you about your guidance coming $0.10 off the top and the bottom and given the better close in Q1 I guess it sounds like Japan is the reason why that and maybe a little bit of fuel off of the top? I guess I’ll ask when you look at your bookings for the remainder of the year being higher volume at lower prices is that mostly due to Q2 because I’m curious that comparisons get easier in Q3 as we get closer we would see higher prices and so you’d hold back on some booking at lower prices year-over-year.
I guess if you could give us a sense as to that sort of higher volume lower price how that changes from Q2 into the second half? Sure.
Yeah.
David go ahead? Essentially for all three quarters we are essentially at higher volumes and slightly lower prices albeit there are different levels of increases and different amounts of lower prices between the quarters but that's the overall trend at the moment.
Keep in mind that while the booking volumes have been very good we did expect to see booking volumes good booking volumes in the first quarter.
When we -- in December on the conference call we talked about being behind and we knew we had to catch up and in order to catch up you need good booking volumes.
So this is pretty much in line with our expectations.
Okay.
And then just the other question is can you quantify a little bit the lower occupancy in the Carnival brand just a degree? As we’ve been saying all along on a number of voyages they are willing to give up a couple of points of occupancy to hold price.
So we are seeing some a couple of points down in the first quarter on Carnival Cruise Lines.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Arnold could you just discuss your cost saves just talk about them more broadly and will you set a target either in dollars or percentage and if you don't do that why wouldn’t you do that? And then David I think you mentioned that the booking curves have extended and you mentioned something about that but they were still at the lower end of where you'd like them to be.
What is the lower end and what is higher end on the booking curves? Okay.
I’ll start with your cost question first.
Obviously our greatest opportunity is on the revenue side.
But the reality is we do spend as I mentioned over $6 billion not counting fuel and not counting personnel and not counting payroll.
And largely that spend today is uncoordinated.
There are portions of it that are to some degree across a few brands one or two areas that are more broadly but the majority of it is not coordinated and that just is a natural result of having run the brands very independently and very successfully very independently.
So any corporation can always be more efficient.
And when you have that level of spend that historically has not been aggressively coordinated by definition there is opportunity there.
And so I just mentioned the one area of airline and hotel for crew where we spend between that and ports over $1.3 billion a year and we haven’t set an arbitrary target.
We’re doing it from the ground up and we’re doing the work to see where the opportunities lie.
But from a reasonableness test which is a 1% as reasonable savings almost certainly right.
5% of $6 billion will be $300 million 10% will be $600 million exactly what the number turns out to be across that $6 billion base.
We’ll see as we go to these individual areas of opportunity and quantify them more rigorously and look at where the opportunities are.
So that work has begun.
Once we've done that we’ll prioritize which ones we attack first.
And overtime we’ll realize the latent opportunity that’s there through collaboration coordination and communication across our 10 brands.
Hope that answers your question Steve.
Go ahead David.
Yeah.
Steve historically we had given some ranges out.
For instance we said in the current quarter we might be like 80% to 90% booked one quarter out 50% to 70% two quarters out 30% to 50%.
And so I think previously in the latter part of last year I said we were at the lower end or slightly below the historical booking ranges.
So now we are a little bit better than we had previously been but still towards the lower end of the booking ranges.
Okay.
Thanks Our next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I’m wondering if you could just give us some color on the Carnival brand net yields what they were in the first quarter and when do you think they get positive and then similarly Costa’s net yields in the quarter? Go ahead Dave.
Sure.
Overall we had indicated that we expected to see Carnival down in the back half of last year and in the first half of this year in the mid-to-high single digits and then we had talked about them turning positive in the back half of 2014 after we lapped the shipped incidents the voyage disruptions.
So in the first quarter Carnival turned out to be a little bit better than we expected which helped exceed the guidance but we are still I guess are forecasting our guidance for the remaining quarters remains unchanged.
Okay.
And on Costa? For Costa? Yeah Costa was up a couple of points in the first quarter and part of that was due to occupancy.
But they did get some pricing as Arnold indicated particularly in their core European markets.
Keep in mind that one of the things for the first quarter Costa has less ships in South America which while it's a very high-yielding market it's not nearly as profitable.
So we gave up something on the yield for Costa to improve the profitability overall because of the high cost of doing business in South America.
That makes sense.
And then just on Carnival I probably understand that the strategy that you have and trying to get the bookings levels up given the levels that you are in? But I’m just wondering as you kind of look forward do you only look for the consumer gets used to certain pricing or promotions on the brand? And specifically when you look past this year do you envision the Carnival brand having more pricing power? I think as we look down through the year obviously the comparisons are going to get easier right off the bat because the second half of last year was post the voyage disruptions that occurred.
And in terms of just the building momentum the Caribbean had a lot of capacity expansion 10% for Carnival and even more than over 19% for the industry.
So there will probably be some continued pressure from that but overall we do see significant strengthening in the Carnival.
Yeah.
But I don't worry about the consumer getting used to the lower prices.
I mean this has happened before we saw lower prices in 2009 and the prices came back up in ‘10 and ‘11.
So as the economy improves and as the demand is there we should be able to get the pricing back without any problem.
This has happened a number of times in our history.
Our next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Maybe just little piggyback on Felicia’s question you talked about you saw a price dip in ’09 and that came back in ’11.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about relative pricing compared to the competitive set -- Caribbean line I’m talking about specifically here.
It seems like last year there was a bigger gap versus a lot of your competition.
I’m assuming that’s worked its way back now but how should I think about that going forward and have we gotten back to the historical gap versus the ships that Carnival would ultimate compete with? Are you talking specifically about Carnival Cruise Lines? Cruise Lines.
Yeah exactly.
Yeah.
It’s very hard for us.
There is no direct competitors.
It’s very hard for us -- the competitors like Royal Caribbean its multiple brands in multiple markets.
So whereas Carnival Cruise Lines focuses primarily on the Caribbean so very hard to do a direct comparison the way you're describing.
It really is difficult.
The brands are different.
They cater to different psychographic segments.
They have different comparisons for what ships were where in the previous year et cetera and so you are often comparing apples and oranges.
And so we tend to not look at it that way but we do look at how we are doing relative to how we’ve done in the past and how we anticipate we should be doing given our deployments and what equipment we have where.
I can give you a little color on us in total versus our competition that might be helpful because if you go back we lost about 10% to yield in 2009 and we got back in ‘10 and ‘11 about half of that.
And we had hope to regain the second half in the following years ‘12 and ’13.
But unfortunately with the ship incidents today we are about 11% behind 2008 yields.
In comparison our competition with their 2014 guidance should be close to their 2008 yields.
And hopefully as our brands recover both Carnival Cruise Lines and Costa we can recoup getting back to the 2008 yields as well.
Hotel RevPARs are also back to those levels.
We have every reason to believe we can get back there as well.
That’s really helpful actually.
And maybe Arnold you talked about at the beginning of the call sort of those three major segments of cruisers the Loyalist the new to cruise the Switchers maybe expand on that a little bit? Is that brand consideration independent of the cheaper price that those people are receiving and ultimately is that sustainable as prices inevitably come up maybe talk a little bit more about that? Yeah.
I think first of all understanding the guest psychographics increasingly is clearly an immediate task that we have across the 10 brands.
So we continue to do deep dives and that is an area where we are collaborating across the brands and as opposed to doing 10 different segmentation studies.
We will be able to do a much more rigorous market research effort at probably less cost frankly than doing 10 independent ones and get much better insight.
But generally speaking sure each segment has his own price elasticity curve.
A Loyalist now they make take an extra cruise or two if pricing is lower.
The Switchers might be more compelled to switch to a brand with a better price offerings and so on.
And the new to cruise that's where all the heavy-duty action has been across all the brands ours and other cruise company brands is to get to new to cruise onboard.
And that's always been more of a price sensitive market for the majority of psychographic targets not so much to ultra-luxury but short of that has been somewhat prices.
So measuring that and that changes with time.
Geopolitical influences it.
Economy influences it.
Just general mood influences it.
So these are all conceptual things but we are going from concept to rigor and modeling in our price models and our psychology of pricing through the work we have underway.
But basically it sounds like it’s the Switchers that are the last of the three to sort of get back to where we were pre-last year? Yeah.
And the comments I made was around brand perceptions.
And so a Switcher by definition is probably going to be last because they have a brand they are with and you are trying to get them to switch.
And so you need to have perhaps more cause more rationale for them to switch from a brand they are all in to go to another brand.
And so any kind of negative noise makes them more difficult obviously.
Very helpful.
Very small population.
And it is the smaller segment of the population.
Beth just pointed out.
That is in most cruisers or either new to cruise or they would fall into the category of Loyalist.
Good stuff.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
And two things.
If you can just maybe give us a little bit of an update.
On the last call you mentioned that Carnival was a little bit of ahead of your period of recovery for the brand and it sounds like the brand perception has continued along that vein.
But if you frame that from the perspective of pricing has much changed from your statement on the prior call that the Carnival brand is tracking a little quicker than what you expected and Costa still lagging just an update there? And then the second question would be related looking at over the next couple years here Arnold you continued to outline that there is a lot of cost savings opportunities but you also in your preamble talked about elevated spending on advertising and marketing.
How do you see those two netting out over the next several years for net cruise costs ex-fuel? Yes.
First of all let’s go to your pricing question we feel and brand recover we are very enthused by what we see in the Carnival brand in terms of the pace of recovery and in terms of how we shot up.
Obviously we had a better than expected first quarter with Carnival and that’s extremely encouraging and affirming to us.
And as I mentioned in my opening comments I’m very proud of the Carnival brand team through their innovations and hard work they put in place to accelerate that brand recovery.
So we are very encouraged on the Carnival brand.
That will be the first comment.
In terms of more broadly looking down the road we will continue to invest to build demand because that’s what the industry needs and that’s what we need.
Our ships sail pretty much full if not full so do the competitor.
And the issue is not about that the issue is at what price.
And so the greater demand obviously the more we’re able to capture the great value that we offer to guests and we do believe this is the greatest vacation value there is.
And so obviously we want to drive demand and we will do that through promotion period.
So that’s advertising through social media or whatever and we will continue to invest in that.
Having said that do I think those -- that investment in the future will offset any potential savings that we have across the large base of spend we have? No I don’t expect that.
Will we reallocate some of those savings to additional promotional investment if we see a return on those investments? Absolutely yes.
But the reality here is I think there is more opportunity collectively over time to show improved overall cost performance even given continued investment and promotional spend.
Okay.
So just to clarify you’re saying that the Carnival brand continues to track ahead of that expected recovery in the Costa brand is it still -- is it picked up a little bit of that pace? I just want to make sure I am clear on the Costa side of the equation.
Yes.
Costa has picked up as well.
Costa had the double whammy of disruption and then obviously the European economy.
And the European economy is still choppy but it’s obviously strengthened.
And we do see accelerated progress in the Costa brand.
And I’ve given huge plaudits to our Carnival brand team but our Costa team deserves huge plaudits well.
And they have done a great job in managing the brand and all the dynamics around the brand recovery.
So they obviously had a very different level incident than Carnival brand did.
So they had a much more serious incident.
They were in a much tougher economic environment.
And so those -- both of those things weighing heavily to affect the pace of recovery but they are doing well.
Now we’re very confident and excited looking ahead for Costa as well.
And I apologize on the cost side just to clarify are you saying that cost should be flat down or slightly up over the long term netting the savings on the incremental spending? We haven’t quantified the cost savings opportunities yet preciously and I want to hold on that until I’ve given the teams the opportunity to really drill down.
We like giving you guys numbers that we have high degree of confidence in and so we’re going to do that the right way.
Some of that will be revealed by the time we get to talk to you again.
Some of it may be somewhat obvious.
And as appropriate we will lay out targets if we feel it’s of any real value to all.
But the bottom line is we are still working all of that.
Directionally I certainly see overall opportunities for efficiencies on the cost side.
But again I want to point out our opportunity is scale.
We have 78 million passenger cruise days a year.
We have 10 million guests a year.
And on the revenue side small moves on the revenue side produce substantial cash flow and operating earnings opportunity for us.
And so we are going to do both we are going to walk and chew gum but the big opportunity is clearly on the revenue side.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Rennardson with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
Slightly if you could help us a little bit with your yield guidance for Q2 because if I look last year’s yield it was down 1.9% in constant dollars in Q2 followed by minus 3.8% in Q3.
Now you’re looking for minus 3% to minus 4% in Q2 but then a relatively big positive in Q3.
How big can that be in Q3 please? And then the second question would be yields in Q1 ex-Costa so if we strip Costa big improvement in Costa what was the yield for the rest of the company? Thank you.
David? Yes.
Well first of all the guidance for the second quarter part of that is impacted by the 19% capacity increase in the Caribbean that we’re expecting and the promotional rates that are out in the market as a result of that.
Each quarter has its unique set of circumstances.
The third quarter we had indicated or I should say the back half I had indicated that yields would be positive in the back half.
And of course the third quarter will be impacted to some degree by Japan and so that taking into account.
But all we said was positive in the third quarter and slightly down for the full year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the other one was… And as far as Costa is concerned I mean I had indicated earlier in the call Costa was up a couple of points in the first quarter.
So Costa remember is 15% of our overall capacity and the yields in the first quarter were down 2.1%.
So it probably would have been down slightly more than that without Costa but you can do the math.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Thanks.
The balance sheet customer deposits at the end of the quarter would not much change year-on-year despite you say a very significant booking volume increase in the wave period.
And I am wondering it could suggest your pricing on those volumes is very weak but it may also suggest you’re selling more through agents.
I’m just wondering as a mix direct indirect or if we should be perhaps more worried on pricing given that year-on-year change? Thank you.
Yeah.
Well there were so many factors Jamie that go into customer deposits on year-over-year basis.
I mean this pro-rated voyages they show excursions there is charter deposits and a whole bunch of other things including currency movements on a year-over-year basis.
So it is very difficult for you to read in.
The other thing to keep in mind is that ticket prices are down on a year-over-year basis so that does also affect the customer deposit and Carnival Cruise Lines I think also had a program with a lower deposit for a number of voyages which generated a lot of volume.
Now typically we don’t see any difference in the overall cancellation experience with those lower deposits.
So that was something that stimulates a lot of bookings as well.
So there are a lot of factors that make it difficult for you to read into the trends in bookings versus customer deposits.
Okay.
And then thanks the other question was on the cost guidance.
So for the second quarter the guidance is quite high given Q2 last year and [NCC’s] (ph) were up 8% given all the Triumph cost.
So I think if we strip out the litigation proceeds from the quarter the year before that’s still about 6% Q2 last year and then small but that seems to be the timing you mentioned from the first quarter? And given your sort of your full year guidance for cost you are expecting the second half looks to be roughly flat? And I'm just wondering whether -- what's causing that significant improvement and whether any of the savings you've mentioned to be built into your guidance? Thank you.
Yeah.
I think the most significant thing that you have to think about is fourth quarter we do expect costs to be down and the reason is if you remember last year in the fourth quarter we had talked about Carnival Cruise Lines new advertising campaign and how we had increased advertising.
So there is a difference seasonalization of the advertising this year and therefore we would expect cost to be down in the fourth quarter and that's probably the missing piece that puts it together for you.
So that's adjusted into Q1 Q2 this year actually cutting your advertising aren’t you?  Well we increased the whole overall advertising but the big increase in Q1 and Q2 was on the advertising side yes.
There were other increases in insurance and crew travel and few other things but the thing that drove the majority of the increase was advertising.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Patrick Scholes with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I have two questions for you.
You briefly talked about expectations for the third quarter revenue yields and sort of indicated just back half will be up.
What would you expect to be a stronger quarter the third or the fourth as far as that revenue yield growth?  Yeah.
We will give you that guidance when we get to next quarter I mean at this point it built into our full year there is a lot of bookings left to go for the third quarter we are probably about halfway there and the fourth quarter is probably a third of the way there.
So there is a lot left to go.
Typically of course the third quarter is the strongest summer season for us.
So that bodes well for the yields in that particular timeframe.
But it’s a little early for us to give detail guidance.
Okay.
We'll catch-up on that in the future.
And then gentleman second question here you've talk today a bit about getting back to prior pricing levels and mentioned that hotels have gotten there? Certainly one difference between the cruise industry and the hotel industry is the difference supply characteristics? That been said what -- for next year what would you -- what do you see capacity in the Caribbean shaping up and that's really maybe very important because its this year has been high and held impacted prices.
So what are your expectations for next year for the Caribbean both for yourselves and the industry?  Yeah.
Well the -- we don’t have all the detailed itineraries for our competitors and everybody.
But I took a look at the first quarter and for our North American brands for the first quarter we are expecting a small decrease in the capacity in the Caribbean primarily driven by the fact that Carnival Legend was announced is moving down to Australia which will reduce our capacity in the Caribbean.
So that should be helpful I have seen other announcements but we will be putting all that data together on a consolidated basis and hope to have that before the next call.
Historically when there has been a big change in capacity in the destination market and then there has been some pricing impact from that ships tend to move out.
So I guess I won’t say ships are moving out but it’s highly unlikely we'll see the level of capacity increase next year that we see in this year.
Okay.
Got it.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Dobson with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Oh! Hey guys.
Two quick questions for you.
So you talked a lot about strong cost in bookings? I suppose how much of the 2Q and 3Q are left to sale at this point? You mentioned that you are just shy about a normalized forward booking curve but I guess where are you more particularly?  Yeah.
Well what I had said on the previous and answering the previous question is that for the current quarter we're in 80% to 90% and then the next question we are out 50% to 70% and I've said we were towards the lower end of those rang.
So it gives you a good indication of where we are for Q2 and 3.
Right.
And then I guess thinking about your recent ship renovations? Can you give any color on the type of premium pricing that you are seeing or the returns on those Fun Ship 2.0 renovation?  Yeah.
I think on Fun Ship 2.0 is certainly one of the reasons why we've seen accelerated recovery in the brand.
I don’t think there is any doubt about that.
And so even though we've got tough comparisons given all the moving parts and all the various variables there is no question in our minds that Fun Ship 2.0 has lifted our yields relative to where they would have been and probably lifted our occupancy as well.
So we are absolutely declaring success on that one.
And we continue to innovate as you know we have the 60 concerts that are planned for the Carnival brand this year.
We're seeing some lift across the number of those as well both in terms of booking trends and pricing.
You know on the Carnival Sunshine which was a major refurbishments we had plan that out with extra revenue on the additional cabin that we put in extra onboard revenue relating as Arnold indicated to all the Fun Ship 2.0 improvement.
So one thing that turned out to be very favorable that we hadn’t anticipated or we didn’t put into our forecast I should say was the extra ticket pricing in the premium we were getting there as a result of the refurbishments.
So we were very pleased with that.
And it’s virtually like a new build.
We renamed the ship and add a lot of great features with the water park and the ropes course and all.
So we were -- we're pleased with that.
We are seeing that the refurbishments have a positive halo effect across the fleet.
We bring out the new features on the new ships and then we try to retrofit them across the fleet to maintain a consistent brand standard.
And that's very powerful and very helpful and we've been doing that for while and we’ll continue to do that as we move forward.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Wyn Ellis with Numis.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just got three questions if I can please.
First of all on Japan you said it’s only 1% of your capacity for this year.
Could you clarify for us what it will cost you you think in EPS terms? And then secondly on they Ukraine have you seen any impact of the unrest there and the political maneuvers? And have you built that into your guidance for this year any additional caution? And then finally just a question on advertising I think Arnold in your opening remarks you said it would be up about 14% this year.
Is that something you’d expect to continue in following years?  Okay so first of all with regards to the Ukraine the geopolitical issues have been periodically almost every year somewhere.
And it’s clearly the Ukraine has impacted some itineraries in terms of demand and attitude and orientation for guests to seek a particular itinerary.
It's had a bit of a halo effect for a period of time on the European bookings period.
On the other hand European bookings continue to be strong and we're seeing a good yield and good occupancy trends there.
So yes it's had an impact but there is a lot of variables and it all comes out in the wash so to say.
So it only represents about 0.7% of our capacity.
So there is some halo effect going across.
Go ahead David you wanted to make … Yeah.
I think as far as the overall forecast is concerned what we did is we assumed that things remained the same that things didn't get deteriorate and we built support cast on that premise.
We have -- Costa has announced some changes in their itinerary because they had some ships going to the Ukraine in May.
They're replacing the Ukraine with Bulgaria and in overnight in Istanbul that's been announced.
There are some other Costa and AIDA and if I remember correctly Seabourn go there in the third quarter.
And we're monitoring that carefully and I would expect that those itineraries would change as well.
As far as Japan is concerned I guess it's safe to say that like many new markets when you enter you do have to invest a little bit.
I've used that term before.
It's a nice way of saying we're losing some money in the market but we are very bullish on the overall prospects for Japan.
And we believe it's worth the investment as we continue to develop the market.
As far as advertising… Yes the advertising the increase as I referenced was over 2012.
We were back a couple of years because of the increases that we did put in place in 2013 year at the end.
But directionally we'll make an ongoing judgment.
I'm always looking to see impact for dollars invested.
We had not advertised for example in the Princess Line for almost 10 years that's for ad campaign.
And so we'll examine it.
I'm a personal believer and pulsing that you advertise for a period of time then you take a little break and you advertise.
We have 10 brands.
We can manage that over but we’ll see how it works out and I don't have any preconceived notions.
I want to hear from the brands in terms of what they think is having the greatest impact and evidence they can provide to that.
Fundamentally we're going to promote our brands.
And from an overall direction I don't have a big prediction for you.
But I don't see us do anything dramatically in terms of dramatic increases absent a clear return prospect.
Yeah.
Of the 20% that Arnold mentioned versus 12% a little bit more than half of that was last year and the rest of it was in 2014.
I had indicated in December part of the increase was due to higher advertising.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Stanford with Lazarus Partnership.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just one question if I may.
Could you give us an update on where you are with fitting the scrubber technology to your vessels and to extent to which is the percentage of the fleet will be embodied by the end of the year please? Sure.
Go ahead David here on the percentage.
Yes.
Today we had put it previously on the Queen Victoria.
I think we had said that on previous calls that we were testing it and it was working well.
We were completely pleased with the results.
We’ve put it on six additional ships.
Probably have 20 plus ships with scrubbers before the end of the year.
Between that and the exemptions that we got for 2015 we had indicated in the 10-K that we didn't expect to see the ECA have a significant impact on our cost structure for 2015.
The numbers previously in prior 10-Ks were a few hundred million dollar impact as a result of the low-sulfur fuel.
We're progressing we're pleased with the progress we're making and we will continue to roll the scrubbers out over time both in ‘15 and ‘16.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick question on the impact of the Galveston oil spill should we be thinking about that as having any EPS impact in the next quarter and what’s your current thoughts on that and where those ships stand? Okay.
Well there are three ships that are currently in port two Carnival ships and one Princess ship.
Unfortunately we don’t know exactly when the channel will open up.
I guess at the moment if the channel opened up this week and the future cruises were to occur as normal it might cost us a penny in the second quarter.
But this is a fluid situation and I do hope they can get it cleaned up and the channel opened this week.
And yeah we do it -- by the way under the current law we do expect recovery of the lost revenue in the incremental costs under the OPA regulations and insurance.
So we would expect to see a recovery at some point later this year the additional costs.
Yeah for the full year though unless something really prolongs this we don’t see a material impact on our guidance.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I wonder if you could give a little bit of color on you mentioned the other European brands excluding Costa being down in Q1 just sort of a little bit of color on those factors? Sure.
At AIDA unfortunately because of the loss of the Red Sea program and the very popular Egypt itineraries we had to make some changes.
Those didn't occur this year.
And as a result the yields were down just a little bit in the first quarter.
In the U.K.
the U.K.
has done some changes to their pricing programs in their commission structures.
So while their first quarter was impacted we do expect an improving trend in the U.K.
overall.
So hopefully that gives you a look a little bit more color on what’s going on.
And I will say in general in Europe we do as I mentioned earlier on the call with the booking curves being moved out we see strength in Europe.
And again it’s reflected in our guidance but we actually see a strong performance collectively in Europe this year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And we have one last question from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
That’s fine.
My previous question was just answered.
Thank you.
Thank you very much And there is no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to you Mr.
Donald.
Hey.
Thank you all very much.
We look forward to visiting with you next quarter and in between.
And I thank you for your time.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Carnival Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday June 24 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Arnold Donald President and CEO of Carnival Corporation LLC.
Please go ahead sir.
Hello everyone.
This is Arnold Donald and with me today is David Bernstein our Chief Financial Officer; Beth Roberts Vice President of Investor Relations; and Mickey Arison our Chairman.
I'll start with a few comments and then I'll hand it over to David to review in more depth the quarter results and some looks ahead.
So first of all it feels like we've turned a bit of a corner.
We achieved not only better than expected results for the second quarter but we also achieved year-over-year earnings growth.
And we're working very hard to build on our current momentum.
Our progress is a credit to the outstanding efforts of our 120 000 shipboard and shore side team members who strive to create exceptional vacation experiences each and every day for our 10 million plus guests around the globe.
We were pleased to see our European brands’ revenue yields turn positive in the second quarter and particularly encouraged by the favorable pricing trends emerging not only in Europe but in North America as well.
We're making every effort to maintain pricing integrity despite aggressive price moves by other cruise lines even if it means giving up a little more occupancy than we had planned as was the case for example in our summer Caribbean deployment.
We believe this strategy can have positive implications next year and particularly as we have already rebalanced our deployment for 2015.
So next year we expect flat capacity in Europe and Alaska for our brands and a slight reduction in Caribbean deployment with a notable double-digit decline in the third quarter.
And we hope that will make for a better balance between supply and demand in our more established markets in both North America and in Europe.
As we had anticipated our capacity growth in both Asia and Australia is up mid to high teens next year albeit off a very small base as we continue to expand our global footprint.
We were the first major cruise company to enter China.
In fact we have home ported in China now for over eight years and we can feel the momentum building.
During the quarter we announced deploying a fourth ship to serve the fast growing China market next year.
And in addition we also announced the transfer of two smaller Holland America ships to support the growth of the P&amp;O Australia brand.
And we also made significant progress on a number of strategic initiatives this quarter which we expect will improve our operating performance going forward beginning with our recent decision to rationalize our brand portfolio by absorbing the smaller Ibero Cruises brand in Spain into the Costa brand by the end of the year.
Now that Costa has had a leading presence in Spain for many years and is already well-established there.
We believe the Costa brand can serve our Spanish guests exceeding their cruise vacations expectations while improving efficiency for our company.
Now one of Ibero's two ships the Grand Celebration will be transferred to the Costa fleet and become the Costa Celebration.
The remaining Ibero ship will leave the fleet later this year.
This is in keeping with our ongoing strategy to optimize our fleet by selling or disposing of older less profitable vessels.
This brings the total to five ships which we have sold or will leave the fleet in 2014 and 2015 including three smaller seaborne ships and one Costa ship.
Both brands have one larger more efficient ship expected to be delivered by 2016 which will replace that capacity and generate higher returns.
Now while these new ships will result in a small net addition of capacity their real advantage is a tremendous increase in efficiency including offering higher yielding balcony cabins more than 20% lower unit costs and greater than 40% fuel efficiency while at the same time enhancing the guest experience.
As you know optimizing our fleet is an ongoing process and we have a number of ships remaining in the fleet that we expect to replace with newer larger more fuel-efficient vessels over time as we continue to advance our fleet.
We remain focused on elevating our customer experience through both new ships entering service like the Regal Princess which was introduced this quarter as well as the new product initiatives being rolled out across the existing fleet.
For example Carnival Cruise Lines launched the first of its Carnival LIVE Concert Series this past quarter with a number of sold out performances.
In fact just last week Jennifer Hudson performed sold out shows onboard two of our ships in Cozumel.
We have received great feedback on the guest experience which should result in even higher guest satisfaction scores and we have sold thousands of tickets to-date for this Concert Series.
Given the positive response we have already begun working on the 2015 program.
In March we also officially launched our Seuss at Sea program on Carnival Splendor and in May debut a new Marine-Themed Children's Program Carnival's Camp Ocean onboard Carnival Freedom.
Both programs are extremely popular with our family segment.
It will be rolled out fleet-wide across the Carnival brand.
And these are just a few examples of new product development that will better attract and serve our differing target customer psychographics across our portfolio of leading brands.
At the same time increasing our fuel efficiency fleet-wide continues to be a cornerstone of our strategy to improve returns.
We remain on track in our efforts to reduce fuel consumption by 25% in 2014 compared to 2007.
Moreover we have rolled out our leading edged scrubber technology on a dozen more vessels so far this year in order to mitigate the higher cost of fuel under the pending eco requirements.
We have made progress on a number of other initiatives to leverage our scale as well.
Those are still in early stages and we expect we will be in a position to share more down the road.
These initiatives have been met with strong enthusiasm and a sense of renewed energy by our teams around the world.
However they will take some time and of course a lot of effort to fully implement.
On the revenue side our brand segmentation study is well underway.
And we are conducting conversations with thousands of consumers both cruisers and non-cruisers.
And we have reviewed 30 million guest records to understand what our guests love about our brand and what we can do to increase loyalty across our portfolio.
We believe it to be the largest ever quantitative market research study of the cruise and leisure market.
At the same time we are conducting a global review of our revenue management systems processes and strategies.
We have commissioned a team of leading revenue management experts who have already begun visiting our major brands to identify best practices and new opportunities to improve our revenue management tools and stochastic modeling.
We believe these are opportunities that will allow us to capture higher yields.
On the cost side our group travel sourcing initiative is well underway.
We recently issued a global RFP to the broad network of airlines we use around the world.
We are among the largest air travel buyers in the world and have historically taken a regional view for these relationships.
Now we will take a global view.
Although it’s premature to quantify the impact we expect to begin to see the benefits as early as next year.
And we will communicate to you as we achieve the major milestones.
We are also in the process of issuing RFPs for global sourcing of our largest food products in regions of common deployment and that is beyond the major regions where we are already leveraging our size.
We are now focused on capitalizing on our scale in Australia and parts of Europe.
As I indicated in the press release I believe we are experiencing an inflection point for our company.
I am excited about the future and we are fully committed to moving forward at an aggressive pace as we simultaneously execute a number of initiatives to improve return on invested capital over time.
I would now like to turn it over to David Bernstein for some comments.
And after his we will take Q&amp;A.
David? Thank you Arnold.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this conference call will be forward-looking.
I must refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Also all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in local currency as this is a much more meaningful measure of our business trends.
I will start today with a summary of our second quarter results and then get into more detail on first our overall positive booking status; second our yield expectations for the remainder of the year; and third our booking patterns by program or deployment for each of our two major business segments the North American Brands and the European Australia and Asia Brands known as our EAA Brands.
I will then finish up with an update on our improved full year 2014 June guidance.
Our non-GAAP net income for the second quarter was $80 million.
I'm pleased to report that our second quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.10 above the midpoint of our March guidance and that was driven mainly by two things.
First better than expected net revenue yields at most of our brands worth $0.04 which was split between net ticket and net onboard and other yields.
And second lower than expected net cruise cost without fuel which was also worth $0.04 and that was due to lower than expected occupancy as well as the timing of certain expenses between the quarters.
Now let's turn the second quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 5%.
The North American brands were up 8% while the EAA brands were flat.
Our total net revenue yields in the second quarter declined just over 2%.
So let's break apart the two components of net revenue yields.
Net ticket yields declined almost 4% and that was driven by our North American brands which were down over 7% as anticipated in our March guidance.
This was due to the promotional pricing environment in the Caribbean resulting from the large increase in industry capacity.
However our EAA brands were up over 2% and that was driven by better than expected improvement in our Continental European brands.
Net onboard and other yields increased over 2% despite the lower occupancy with increases on both sides of the Atlantic.
Net cruise costs per available lower berth days excluding fuel was up just over 1% and that was driven by higher advertising spend as we invested to accelerate the recovery of ticket prices and higher dry dock costs.
As result of our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel consumption I am happy to report that our consumption per ALBD declined 6% this quarter and saved us $0.04 versus the prior year.
In summary our second quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.03 higher than the prior year.
It was driven by improved fuel consumption lower fuel prices and favorable exchange rates all of which was partially offset by lower net revenue yields and slightly higher net cruise cost without fuel.
Now looking at the fine print for our recent booking trends and yield expectations for the remainder of 2014.
We are excited that during the second quarter our overall booking curve continued to lengthen a trend which began during the first quarter and was highlighted on our last conference call.
We are pleased with the overall new direction and anticipate that this trend will continue.
At this point cumulative fleet-wide booking for the remainder of the year are slightly ahead at higher prices.
However the pattern is different for each of the two major business segments.
Our EAA brands are significantly ahead on occupancy with flat prices which bodes well for pricing on the remaining inventory.
The North American brands are ahead on price but are still behind on occupancy as a result of the large increase in industry capacity in the Caribbean.
Given these booking trends we expect yields for the third quarter to be flat to down slightly compared to the prior year.
Our EAA brand yields which turned positive in the second quarter compared to the prior year are doing well and are forecasted to be positive for the remainder of the year.
However we don’t expect our North American brands yields to turn positive compared to the prior year until fourth quarter.
As we discussed on the prior calls for the better part of the last year Carnival Cruise Lines has been following a new revenue management tactic holding price and giving up a few percentage points of occupancy.
While we mentioned this before that it has benefited us over the last few quarters it's still a technique that we are analyzing.
In the interim Carnival has continued with this approach and as a result we are forecasting slightly lower occupancies for the third quarter.
Remember that yield is a combination of price and occupancy.
It's the lower occupancy that's causing our yields to be lower for our North American brands and the company in the third quarter.
However ticket prices are forecasted to be higher which is an encouraging sign.
For the full year we're expecting net revenue yields to be down slightly which is essentially the same as our March guidance.
We exceeded our second quarter yield guidance and did roll the $0.04 benefit into the year.
However $0.04 is only a quarter of a percentage point for the full year.
Overall the back half of the year our forecast has not changed with a slight improvement in the fourth quarter offsetting the lower occupancy in the third quarter.
While our net revenue yield guidance has a number of moving parts I'm pleased to say that the overall general direction is slightly positive towards higher yields.
Now looking at the booking patterns by program or deployment for each of the two major business segments for the remainder of the year.
First for our North American brand I'll walk you through the Caribbean Alaska and their seasonal European program.
The Caribbean is behind on occupancy but ahead on price and represents almost 44% of the remainder of the year for the North American brand.
Booking volumes during the last quarter have been good.
They've been higher than the prior year albeit at promotional rates.
Alaska is nicely ahead on both price and occupancy which bodes well for the remaining inventory.
The seasonal European program for our North American brands is strong and we're well ahead on both price and occupancy.
For our EAA brands the year-round European program which represents almost 80% of the EAA brands' capacity for the remainder of the year is significantly ahead on occupancy with flat pricing.
Recent booking volumes are meeting expectations at nicely higher prices.
Switching to costs.
Our full year cost guidance has improved slightly from our March guidance as we now expect net cruise costs excluding fuel for ALBD to be flat to up slightly.
The improvement comes from lower occupancy and greater collaboration amongst our brands.
We feel good about the small wins to-date and the greater collaboration bears fruit and we look forward to bigger wins.
Of course the bigger wins generally take more time to realize.
Putting all these factors together our 2014 non-GAAP EPS guidance is $1.60 to $1.75 per share with a midpoint that is higher than our previous guidance.
Essentially we've flowed through the better than expected second quarter revenue yields worth $0.04 the improved cost guidance worth $0.06 and improved fuel consumption and other items worth $0.04 all of which was partially offset by higher fuel prices and unfavorable currency movements worth $0.06.
At this point I'll turn the call back over to Arnold.
Thank you David.
And we'll open up Melody to Q&amp;A please? Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Great.
Thanks.
I wanted to ask about Q3 because you had such a strong result in Q2 versus your expectations.
And I think the general expectation had been that your yields would start to be positive in Q3 even with the weak Caribbean since Caribbean's only I think about 27% of your capacity in Q3.
And given the strength in Europe and Alaska maybe it's surprising that the 73% or the rest of the fleet isn't enough to get Q3 into positive territory.
So I wonder if you could give us a little bit more color on what the degree if Europe is up double-digits that is kind of implying very large double-digit declines in Q3 in the Caribbean on top of what had already been a tough Caribbean season last year for you.
So I wonder if you could give a little more color around that.
Sure.
Well to start with we had indicated that we thought our yields would be slightly positive in the third quarter last time.
So all we're talking about is a very small movement from a tad positive to slightly negative at this point.
And it was just -- there was a more promotional environment in the Caribbean than we had anticipated.
And as a result Carnival Cruise Lines decided to hold price and give up the occupancy and it's the lower occupancy that's driving the yield down.
As I indicated in my notes the ticket prices are moving in a positive direction overall.
So we were very pleased with that but it's the lower occupancy.
And it's a couple of points of occupancy overall that we're expecting lower from this year -- from last year to this year which is driving the price down - the yield down sorry.
Is it fair to say that European yields are up double-digit in Q3 and Alaska up at least high single-digit? Just to try to get a sense of the huge variance here versus the Caribbean.
Yeah.
We didn't indicate that Europe was up double-digits.
What we had indicated was that bookings and pricing are well ahead and very strong and Europe was doing very well for our North American brand.
Alaska the same thing and that the EAA brands were moving in a positive direction and we were expecting single-digit increases in all the categories.
And then I guess just lastly in Q4 which you're expecting to be positive now but just thinking about some of the same issues continuing into Q4 and since there's a slightly higher concentration of Caribbean in Q4 versus Q3 I guess just trying to get a sense of your conviction level.
There's probably some late fall Caribbean that is still unbooked.
And how do you get comfortable that Q4 will absolutely bring the full year -- to your full year guidance really all being carried by Q4? I think what we do is try to give our best guess of where we're today given the booking trends given what we're seeing on the books.
One of the big differences between Q3 and Q4 is that the increase in the Caribbean as an industry is significantly less.
I think it's up 13% in Q4 versus like 22% in Q3.
So we're expecting to see a better Caribbean overall environment in Q4 than we saw in Q3 on a comparative basis.
And therefore we're anticipating that yields will be up slightly in Q4 as part of our overall guidance.
So we feel good.
It's looking at what we have on the books and what we have remaining to sell that gives us the confidence that the yields will turn positive in Q4.
And as a company our capacity growth in the fourth quarter is only 5% 6% in the Caribbean which is a much lower hurdle for us as an entity versus the 19% we absorbed in the third quarter.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Arnold could you talk a little bit about the air expense reduction? How big of an opportunity is that? At one point I thought it was measured in the hundreds of millions of dollars and I'm just wondering why that -- what's the delay or what could accelerate that? And then just to Robin's question because it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense the guidance for Q3.
Is something happening on last minute bookings? Are last minute bookings coming in a lot better than expected? And is that Europe or North America that maybe is doing that? Okay.
First of all on the air question overall between the air and port combination team that we've put together they're dealing with about $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion of annual costs.
The air component of that is split between crew and passengers charters for passengers in Europe et cetera.
But there is an opportunity there for certain.
We've issued the RFP.
We are going to be in negotiations with a number of airlines.
And so we are not throwing any numbers around for obvious reasons.
But the reality is there will be an opportunity there for certain to capture some value by leveraging our scale.
And we fully expect to begin to see the benefit of that next year.
With regard to our comment about hundreds of millions of dollars I wouldn’t anticipate being able to sell 50% or 30% of the cost or anything like that which would result in your hundreds of millions of dollars on other basis.
But we certainly have an opportunity to save substantial dollars that can contribute to the bottom-line.
And of course we have the initiatives across number of other areas as well with regards to provisions and technical stores et cetera.
Your second question again… Sure.
Go ahead yeah.
Yeah.
As far as the last minute bookings and what's happening in the first quarter what we had indicated was that the last minute bookings on Carnival Cruise Lines and -- in the Caribbean were better than anticipated.
And remember the first quarter Caribbean capacity was only up a couple of percentage points.
It was the second third and fourth quarter that were up significantly on a year-over-year basis.
In the second quarter as I indicated in my notes as far as the ticket revenue was concerned it was the EAA brands particularly the Continental European brands that performed a little bit better than we had expected.
Of course the overall increase in yields year-over-year had to do with -- some of it was ticket and some of it was onboard and other yields as well.
Some of the programs on onboard particularly our casino program and our casino partnerships are bearing fruit and the onboard revenue did well in the second quarter.
And we didn’t change the onboard revenue for the remainder of the year despite the lower occupancy because of some of the improvements that we are seeing.
What I can tell you in regards of the guidance question has come up a couple of times in different ways.
Obviously we have confidence in the guidance we provided.
We anticipated a number of the things that have occurred already this year.
We feel we have reasonable line of sight barring unforeseen mega macro issues that we have confidence in the guidance that we provided for the year.
Go ahead… Okay.
Thanks.
No I was just going to say it's -- given what you seeing so far and given what you've seen in Q1 Q2 that better than expected results are -- better than expected bookings are coming in.
David you said that it was Europe in Q2 and given what Robin and I are both seeing which is that you have a lot of capacity in Europe this -- for Q3.
It's surprising that that won't carry over into Q3.
I understand what you are saying.
I mean it’s a mix of a number of different things and factors.
Just as an example one of the things we talked about on the last conference call were the expectations for Japan which had an impact on the third quarter as well.
So there are a lot of factors that are coming together including the lower occupancy in the Caribbean Japan and other things which is yielding our net guidance.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Thank you.
So David the promotional environment in the Caribbean that’s been persistent and we’ve all known about it.
Is it worse than what you saw it would be when you last reported your quarter? I think it's fair to say the fact that the guidance for the third quarter it's fair to say that -- as I indicated before a little bit worse than we had anticipated.
But there are other positives that are more than offsetting that and that’s why the net trend is positive.
We're never going to get everything perfectly correct.
There is always some pluses and minuses.
Right that’s fair.
So it's also fair to say you reported the ticket prices in the North American yields were down 7% in the second quarter it's fair to say that will be worse in the third quarter? Correct? No.
No.
No not at all.
You have different comparisons right? So first of all the first half of last year was booked prior to the voyage disruption that caused a number of issues for us and in the industry in general.
So you've got a different comparison half-to-half.
So we are not saying we're going to be down 7% in the third quarter or anything like that David? Okay.
So you're still going to see sequential -- so you're going to see -- could you say you're going to see sequential improvement in yields generally? You will see sequential improvement in the Caribbean as well I guess that’s where I'm trying to get to.
Yes.
Well and for the North American brands had it not been for the change in capacity as I said the ticket prices were up than we've would have gotten -- a change in occupancy we would have gotten higher yields.
So it’s the lower occupancy that’s driving it.
Okay.
That’s fair.
I just want to say the -- we are seeing a recovery from the down over Q in the second quarter to the flat to slightly down in the third quarter.
So things are improving.
I'm just trying to separate out the Caribbean but I get it you were clear.
Let's move on to cost for a second.
Arnold regarding your initiatives you've been pretty consistent to say that a more detailed discussion of this is going to take some time and you reiterated that again today.
Just wondering you've kind of -- you've been in for a year and you've been examining these costs.
Just wonder if you can give us some sense of when you might be ready to discuss that.
And then also will the cost initiatives be incremental to your cost base or will they be used to reinvest in the business and offset inflation.
How should we think about those? Good.
First of all it hasn’t been a year yet I have all the way to I think July 3rd for that.
Okay.
Rounding -- I'm rounding I'm sorry.
Okay.
With regards to the costs we have a number of initiatives as I mentioned on the way.
In the end we want to deliver the results and so the best way to do that at times we have lot of things to manage including the negotiations with outside parties and so we are not too anxious to float numbers around for obvious reasons because they can obviously influence the discussion.
We could glob a bunch of numbers together across various initiatives and whatever but I'd rather led the troops as I mentioned to you before bottom it up and as I mentioned before they often come through much more aggressively than if we just mandated arbitrary targets.
So it's going well.
We are beginning to experience everyday just through the ongoing behavior of collaboration and coordination communication across the brands.
We began to see benefits in cost areas as well as in revenue generating areas and sharing our best practices.
And we're beginning to see results and we feel good about our quarter and we feel good about the year.
We feel very good about looking ahead to the future and realizing those.
So we will reveal along the way.
Once we've completed the RFPs and have done a good deal we'll probably share the level of cost improvements that we've been able to achieve.
But that would be more likely the process in some of these areas.
With regard to -- what was your second question? Well just as we anticipate this -- I mean should we think about these initiatives as being incremental to your cost base.
In other words improving it or are they basically going to be kind of used to reinvest in the business and offset inflation?  Yeah.
It's going to be a combination.
We have our annual strategy reviews in August and September.
The brands will come in with their plans and request for investments and what have you.
Where we see line of slight on an investment producing higher returns and we're not -- obviously we'll make that investment.
And where we don’t we probably won't.
And so some of the savings I'm sure will go to smart investments that are more powerful bottom-line and some of it will directly go to the bottom-line.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Let's just look ahead to global capacity shifts in 2015.
I think you made a brief comment about your expectations for Europe and the Caribbean.
Could you just review those again with respect or maybe keeping in mind the 4% to 5% increase in fleet capacity overall.
What are your expectations not only for what you expect but also what you expect in capacity growth in the Caribbean and Europe next year? I think everybody wants to answer that.
Dave you want to answer go ahead.
Yeah.
Overall our capacity for the year is up little over 2%.
And as Arnold said we're looking at relatively flat capacity in Europe year-over-year flat in Alaska.
On a full year basis we are looking at the Caribbean being down slightly.
But there is a couple of big things there particularly in the third quarter.
I think Arnold mentioned double-digit decline in the Caribbean.
So that should bode well for pricing.
And the other thing is that as we have indicated before within the Caribbean the biggest promotional activity has been in the South Florida market and we are also making some changes in the overall deployments around the Caribbean.
So while it's going down it’s also being redeployed and changing as well.
And we had talked about the double-digit increases in both Asia and Australia and New Zealand.
So that's where we are investing overall and that's where the overall increasing capacity is going.
And we see some capacity reduction in the industry as well -- in the rest of industry in the third quarter next year in the Caribbean for example.
And [overall] [ph] for the year some reduction by the rest of the industry.
So that should help things - the added time and investment in marketing and all those people that are sailing this year having great experiences onboard and already thinking about booking next year.
So you know all of that should bode for a better environment in the Caribbean next year than we experienced.
Okay.
So as a follow-up industry-wide there should be a lift of roughly eight to 10 ships next year.
Where do you think they're going? And how are you positioning yourself in those markets against those other new ships coming? The industry growth for 2015 we do have the North American brands pretty flat.
Our European -- the industry has an increase in European brands of roughly 6%.
And the Asia-Pacific region is really carrying the most growth at 16% for the industry that is off a very small base.
Okay.
Let me just quickly touch on one last question.
When we think about the Carnival brand how has that been rebounding relative to your expectations particularly in the Caribbean over the last three to four five months? And can you give us an update on where the Carnival pricing has rebounded to versus where it was? With regards to the brand image it has rebounded very well.
And it continues to muster great brand image strength driven in no small part due to the fact that we had a lot of people sailing on Carnival.
And they are thrilled with the experience.
So both from a broader consumer perspective but certainly amongst those that are cruising the Carnival brand image recovery has been partly very strong.
And kudos and hats off to our employees and their brand leadership of that brand for all the initiatives they undertook to help make that happen.
With regard to the second part of your question David? Yeah we don't give detailed by brand and ticket yields and pricing for each of our individual brands.
But it's fair to say that overall the rebound has not been what we had hoped because of the promotional pricing environment in the Caribbean for Carnival and occupancy as well.
We're holding price and giving up the occupancy.
And that's worked very well for us over the last year.
We will keep analyzing that and see where we go.
But hopefully next year with the redeployment in the Caribbean and the lower capacity we do hope to be able to fill the ships and to bear those fruits and get the yields up.
That's great.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
First I am curious if you guys are willing to comment on where your best opportunity is on the cost side or not necessarily putting a dollar amount with it but obviously the costs have been pretty well controlled in the recent years.
So where are your best opportunities to continue on that path? And second how do we think about the Asia-Pacific market potential longer term and the cadence of moving ships into that territory without over penetrating it too quickly? Thanks.
Yeah thank you Jaime for your questions.
With regards to the cost side first of all we do have opportunities everywhere.
We do.
If you try to force rank them you would have to come up with categorizations.
So if you take some broad categories like air and port and provisions food hotel services different things they are very large buckets.
And the teams are resolving exactly what their targets are.
Right now I would say that there is considerable opportunity across all of them.
And cumulatively 1% improvement non-fuel non-payroll.
So even payroll out of it leaving fuel cost out of it 1% cost improvement yields $60 million to us okay.
And so we are mining every aspect because just a few percentage points can give us significant positive impact.
And I would like to leave it at that for now.
But I want you to know we have a focus on it and where it emanates from is just coordination and communication and then single sourcing in some instances are limited sourcing multi sourcing you know across the brands and just leveraging the scale that we have.
The brands individually have done good jobs at managing their costs.
Some of the brands have done outstanding jobs.
And we want to mine those best practices deploy them across the fleet and across the brands.
And then leverage the scale we have and negotiations and take advantage of that.
And doing that as I mentioned 1% improvement is worth $60 million to us.
So that would be how I would answer that question.
As far as the Asia-Pacific region and the growth in the long-term I mean the market has tremendous potential.
When you look particularly at China which is the largest market and you look at the areas in Shanghai Beijing Guangdong province you are talking about over 130 million people probably double the size of the U.K.
so there is a lot of opportunity there.
We have been growing the market slowly taking it one ship at a time making the decisions as we go along.
And China and Asia are doing very well for us.
And we are looking forward as a great growth opportunity for us over the next few years.
There is always the risk of timing if everybody floods the market at once and so on and so forth.
But right now what we are able to see looking ahead we continue to see China as very promising.
Australia is definitely a hot market and people want to send their ships there.
And if you are going to be in China you're not going to be there all year long you are probably going to spend some time in Australia with the ships and so on.
And so all of that will add some complexity but we feel very well positioned in those markets.
We feel that the growth that we have staged and what we see coming from the industry on balance nets positive in the short term and very positive in the long-term.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Lena Thakkar with HSBC.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks a couple of questions.
Firstly I know you don’t sort of discuss performance by brand.
But I think you have made an exception for Costa in the past.
Can you help us to understand how much of the 15% yield loss you are sort of planning to recover this year and therefore how the European pricing is weighted towards that Costa recovery? And then just secondly more generally on the sort of occupancy and price dynamic you have clearly changed the way you think about that.
And I am just wondering if that's a more longer term dynamic whether you will continue to sort of give up occupancy in various markets where it make sense.
And just on that does it mean we should think about a different EPS sensitivity to yield change given the mix of occupancy in price.
Okay.
So on the latter part of your question we have focused on a couple of markets on trying to ensure some price integrity okay? We continue to pursue that and we will as long as we see net benefit.
If ultimately we don't see net benefit we would discontinue that okay.
And each market is its own market its own source of guests and how they buy and shop and how they think.
And we really have to be careful one-size-fits-all even one-size-fits-all-times even.
And so we're going to be very disciplined and very analytical in our approaches.
So we do in fact optimize because as I mentioned many times to you all the reality is we fill 78 million plus passenger cruise days a year and $1 more per day is worth $78 million to us.
So the details matter and the discipline and the fine tuning matters.
So I wouldn't want the team to be operating on a one broad swoop anything because that's not going to optimize the return for us and accelerate our path to return on invested capital.
So there is no grand single scheme plan.
So I want to make that really clear.
The second thing with regards to that is if you look at Europe in particular the booking patterns have improved.
So people are booking further ahead than they did the prior year.
Occupancy is up yields are up so that's all very positive stuff.
We expect to see similar trends in due course on a consistent basis in North America as well.
I don't know if David had any additional comments he wanted to make or Beth but go right ahead.
Yeah I guess Costa was down 16% as a result of the incident.
And we had given out some information on the brand because of the circumstance.
Last year in 2013 we had indicated they rebounded four points.
It was less than we had hoped because they were facing economic headwinds.
This year Costa does continue to improve it’s a few points higher than the prior year.
So it keeps going in the positive direction.
But as you had indicated we're trying to stay away from giving brand-by-brand improvement -- or brand-to-brand changes.
Okay.
And just as a quick follow-up Arnold you talked about the net benefit of the pricing and occupancy dynamic.
Are you thinking net benefit for just this year i.e.
the short-term or the future benefits of holding that price and how that may help to perhaps derive a bit more pricing power? Yeah absolutely we're thinking over time and monitoring carefully and tracking carefully to see if we're having the desired effect.
So it's not just in the moment.
We're thinking longer term no question about that.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Let's return to the Caribbean and the Carnival brand in particular.
Again in the third quarter you said that you've given up a little bit more occupancy to hold price.
As we look to fourth and first quarter going forward and granted you've got more capacity in the Caribbean seasonally but year-over-year the capacity growth is slowing for yourselves and the industry.
Do you see -- have we reached the inflection point in the Caribbean to where potentially that occupancy can improve along with price or hold price and occupancy can improve in the fourth and first quarters at this point? Go ahead David.
You know what given what we're seeing in the overall booking trend and the pricing and everything else I do believe that we can see yield improvement overall in the Caribbean.
And the Caribbean does vary by quarter significantly.
We see the third quarter -- as we said we gave up price and occupancy for the CCL brand.
We gave -- I'm sorry -- we gave up occupancy and held price.
And in the fourth quarter I mean the brand still expects to hold price.
And overall we do anticipate an improvement for the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So maybe we're seeing this inflection here in the third then moving to the fourth is that fair to say then? Yeah that's fair to say.
Okay okay.
And then gentlemen you had given some color regarding onboard deals how those were improving nicely both in the North American brands and in the EAA brands.
In -- please correct me if I'm wrong did I hear that the Europe if you just sort of looked at it year-over-year in the second quarter had improved a little bit more than North America or was that fairly balanced and then the expectations for the remainder of the year? What I said was the EAA brands improved a little bit more than we had expected in the second quarter.
That was all what we had guided to and that’s what drove the increase from our guidance.
I had indicated that North American brands were down in the second quarter.
Okay okay.
The other comment -- I know you guys are focused pretty heavily on the Caribbean I can understand it.
But the bottom-line is in the fourth quarter the capacity changes for the industry year-to-year in the fourth quarter are nothing were near as dramatic as they were in the third quarter in the Caribbean.
And beyond that we just believe a number of other things we implemented whether it’s marketing initiatives the pricing philosophy whatever we are seeing strength.
We have to play it all the way out to see where we end up.
But right now we definitely see improvement in the fourth quarter which gives us the confidence to give the guidance we have and increase the guidance from where we were.
Okay.
And just one last thing on the onboard David is it being driven by the changes predominantly on the casino or are you seeing that in other areas of onboard also.
We are seeing some -- positive things in a number of other areas.
I guess I'd mentioned the casino only because it was the largest positive of all of the variety of items.
And because David has responsibility for casino now.
Okay.
Okay thank you gentlemen.
Very good.
Our next question comes from Assia Georgieva with Infiniti Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
This is Assia.
Beth was very helpful in providing the Caribbean capacity distribution up 19% in Q3 up only 5% to 6% in Q4.
Could you give us capacity for the corporate entity? Well capacity by… Meaning all destinations by quarter.
Assia why don’t you call Beth after the call? There is a long list of details and she'll be happy to go through it with you.
Okay great.
Thank you for that.
And secondly with Europe being so strong I think none of us expected it to be that good this year before wave season started.
Do you see indications for 2015 or is it still too early? It's very early for 2015 overall.
I mean we will give you some indications in December when we talk about our guidance for next year.
But overall remember we had been facing some economic headwinds particularly in Europe and so it is somewhat improving environment.
And so hopefully that does help us positively in 2015.
Okay.
Thank you David.
And one last quick question.
I should understand that you expect Q4 yields to be slightly up correct? That’s correct.
That’s correct.
Great.
Thank you so much.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Rick Lyall with John W.
Bristol.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah.
I have two questions.
First have you commented on what the cost savings are from folding the Ibero brand into Costa and are there any other broader opportunities in the brand overhead structure? First of all let me answer the latter part of the question -- thank you Rick for the question.
In terms of other opportunities if the question is do we plan to roll in the other brands up? Absolutely not at this point in time.
So we have really leading brands.
Even the Ibero decision took some time but Costa is so strong in Spain and the opportunity was there to minimize marketing cost and other related cost to maintain a separate brands.
So given that and it was a small brand we thought it was the right thing to do.
But if you go beyond that brand in terms of thinking about rolling up in the other brands that is not on the table right now at all.
So I want to make that really clear.
And Rick keep in mind that Ibero was a highly integrated brand within Costa and it was only two ships so very tiny brand.
And so as a result there will be some cost savings.
But you might be talking a penny or two.
I mean we are not talking about big dollars here.
We will take one or two more questions Melody.
Okay.
I had a follow-up on your profitability in China.
Can you comment on where the relative profitability of China is versus other brands or other geographies? Yeah we have said before that overall the yields in China was slightly less than the corporate average.
And you know the thing that really drives that is somewhat on the onboard while the gambling is great the Chinese don’t seem to drink very much so there are differences and that’s what makes the yields slightly lower than the overall corporate average at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
One or two more… Mr.
Arnold? Yes.
I apologize.
We have no further questions at this time.
So I will turn it back over to you.
Well thank you everyone.
We appreciate your interest and your time.
Again we feel good looking forward.
And we look forward to giving you guys updates along the way.
Thank you very much everyone and thank you Melody.
Thank you sir.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
David since you ended on cost I’ll start my question there.
Thank you for all the color regarding the increase -- regarding -- related to the higher dry dock days and what’s driving that? You mentioned this a little bit in your prepared remarks but I’m wondering if you could just give us some color about what is going on with your just underlying cost structure ex this dry dock cost driver? What’s going on with your current ongoing cost saving initiatives? And is there any way that those might further offset this cost guidance that you provided us with today? Felicia about two-thirds of the cost increases I said was relating to dry dock and the other third was really an investment in various areas of the business in terms of things like deployment and occupancy and other things which are driving the remainder of the increase.
And on the flipside I think as Arnold indicated lot of the leveraging our scale and the efficiencies are taking hold and we’re expecting to see that completely offset inflation.
We’re still working very hard that’s our direction at this point and as we made greater strides we’ll update all our projections and forecasts accordingly.
Felicia as we offset the inflation with some of the initiatives that we have we’re looking aggressively.
We’re not afraid to invest if we see a line of sight return from that investment.
So we aren’t afraid to reinvest to the business to drive yields and to drive revenues.
So you’ve got a mix going on there some of the cost increases in vessels.
Okay.
Thanks.
That’s helpful.
And Arnold there was a comment in the release that you made your recording statement that you’re gaining momentum towards your goal of achieving double-digit returns in ROIC over time.
I was just wondering if you could talk more about that comment over what time -- obviously we’re not looking for specific date.
I know you not going to give one but are you thinking about over the next two to three years or are you looking at longer than that? We’re looking at three to five years to get to double-digit returns.
So we have a large business here system hits with fuel increases and other things.
But we definitely see the path in the next three to five years to get to double-digit return on invested capital.
Okay.
Super helpful.
Thank you.
And then just David one last housekeeping your occupancy rate in the quarter actually came in lower than we are expecting.
And we were estimating kind of this strategy that you’re using and then near-term to kind of navigate through the tough promotional environment in the Caribbean.
I'm just wondering how should we think about occupancy rate in the fourth quarter? And in 2015 do you think this strategy will continue? It sounds like things are getting better in the Caribbean for you.
Thank you.
Sure.
Well I’m not sure.
Our occupancy rate came in 1.7 points below the prior year which as I think I indicated in my notes was a bit better than we had anticipated.
So we were able to do much better.
That was part of the yield improvement that we saw in the third quarter.
And as we move forward I think I talked about this on the last conference call that holding price and giving up some occupancy is purely a tactic.
We will continue to work through that.
If the tactic makes sense we’ll utilize it.
But I think as I indicated just a moment ago as part of our cost increase one of the things was higher occupancy relating to the variable cost of food and port charges etcetera.
So we’re hopeful that as we move forward part of that yield improvement is the higher occupancy for 2015.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
Obviously you guys are very positive on the Chinese market and that’s certainly been developing over a number of years here.
I guess can you sort of juxtapose what you’re seeing perhaps in Macau and does that give you any pause as it relates to sort of continuing to add capacity in and around China? I think Macau is the destination for those who like gaming and we are actually in a true cruise product.
And so today those selling on our cruises actually our casino opportunities to date have not been strong on our ships because they are really going for a cruise.
They have families etcetera.
So I’m not exactly sure we’re referencing in Macau but in terms of the cruise opportunity the Chinese government has shown a lot of vision.
They’ve made developing the cruise industry a priority.
And with their support companies like ourselves have a tremendous opportunity to tap into what is a huge market possibly and we’ve enjoyed early success and plan to build on it.
And one quick follow-up if I may Arnold.
I guess if you’re to sort of peg a 1% of your yield improvement and sort of the improvement in booking activity for 2015 directly to some of the revitalization that you’ve done over the last year or so particularly on the Carnival brand I mean what percentage you think is contributing towards that improvement?  Yes it would be very difficult to say to isolate variables like that.
What I can tell you is that we have definitely gained momentum across the brands in terms of best practices.
We haven’t finished our revenue management project but already we’ve had lift on isolated itineraries across brands as they collaborate appropriately.
Also on onboard revenue some of the onboard revenue lift we’ve experienced has come from again great collaboration across the brands identifying best practices.
We see that continuing to build in even more dramatic fashion than we’ve experienced to-date because we’ve only touched the tip of the iceberg today.
Thank you.
Yeah.
A couple -- can you hear me?  Yes Steven we can hear you.
Okay.
So I guess just on Joel’s question.
On the China opportunity what has changed there do you think that you’re willing -- more willing to commit ships and human capital to the market especially putting COO and I am assuming some other management people there because in the past China has been a little bit more difficult and that hasn’t been a home run? And then separately Arnold because you just mentioned this the cross collaboration which has been a big focus of yours on that onboard spend could there be more to go as you start to integrate some of those great ideas and maybe you could share some of the specific best practices that you’ve seen? And then one final thing -- and I’m sorry I ask this fairly frequently why not set a more specific cost target for the next couple of years? You now sort of set an ROIC target of three to five years why not set something more on the expense front? Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you Steven.
So your first question concerning China we began investing in China in 2006.
The Costa brand as I mentioned in the introduction here was the first brand to do so in China.
And things take time to develop and we have been successful in developing our business there and others have come in now as well.
What’s changed in addition to that first was it just takes time to develop a market.
But what’s changing in addition to that is that the government has it as a priority now.
The Chinese government has a plan for development of a cruise industry in China and that means you are getting tremendous support and opportunity to participate led by the various governments whether it’s the Central Government or the provincial or the municipal governments like in Shanghai and Tianjin.
And so all of that bodes well we are beginning to gain momentum.
Distribution system is learning how to market a product such as a cruise product.
You are beginning to see players in China look at building the domestic brand which we think will be real powerful at to developing that market.
So that’s basically what is going on in China and then getting enough scale that it does take cost obviously to build brands and to build the presence and now obviously with the number of ships we have there now and the ones we are going to add we are beginning to get scale so the opportunity for greater profitability is there.
So that’s the quick answer on China.
Yeah.
Let me just add one other point on that.
Steve we have talked about this before historically as Arnold said we started in ’06 and we were investing in China which was a nice way of saying we were losing money we broke even in ’12 we made money in ’13 and ’14 we saw double-digit yield increases in China and the performance of our ships in China has been excellent and so we are very excited about the opportunity as we move forward.
To your second question… No.
Concerning onboard revenue your second question in terms of is there additional opportunity? Absolutely we had a 5% lift in onboard revenues in this quarter to suggest that we will have a 5% lift every quarter from hereon on out we will probably not be anywhere near the right thing to say.
But clearly we see opportunity in specific areas.
We had an area in casino we had area in beverage upgrades and restaurants upgrade opportunities.
There are host of others.
But we are just at the tip of that in terms of really harvesting what is possible there.
And then you last question.
Was relating to the specific cost target heading back… Yeah.
In terms of giving you a specific number on costs as we mentioned directionally we see as offsetting inflation that’s a $75 million to $80 million number on to itself.
We haven’t finished all of the projects yet.
We are in the middle with the airlines in terms of our airline RFPs.
Obviously we are not going to give a number on that because we are on negotiation with them as we speak that will be wrapping up soon.
And I think we will have more to say in the fourth quarter.
But in terms of saying a specific target the reality is we are going to reinvest in the business too.
So I think we will give you one-off as we determine them and we will share with you what we’re reinvesting in at the appropriate time and whether or not we think we will pay it off.
Thank you Steve.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
So David going back to your cost guidance for 2015 and 2016 I guess.
Is it fair to say I mean if we simplify this that basically in ’15 and ’16 if you stripped out your dry-dock costs you are basically looking at flat over that two-year period? Roughly speaking that’s a good estimate.
But I will say one other thing that we have to decide on for 2016 is whether we have additional product enhancements or investments.
As Arnold said before he is not afraid to make some good ROE investments to improve yield to improve the operating income because that’s where we are most focused on.
So absent that yes the math is similar to what you are describing but yet there are lot of decisions yet to be made.
Okay.
Got you.
And then Arnold seems like the Carnival brand itself is started to get a little bit momentum here? Can you maybe help us think about the recovery in that brand and how you is it moving quicker than you guys would have thought is it lagging maybe also and I don’t know if you will give this but where is the booking window for just the Carnival brand and maybe pricing relative to all the triumph -- the triumph incident? Well real quickly in terms of the overall feeling about the brand.
I would say that the recovery is probably the little faster than we had a right to believe it would be but at the same time it’s not nearly fast enough for all of us and our brand people certainly deserve a tremendous amount of credit for their product innovations and both in terms of hardware product and soft product onboard and just an excellent delivery on restoring the confidence in the brand and having people appreciate the great experience that the Carnival brand is.
So we’re pleased with it but at the same time we are not satisfied and we’re going to continue to pursue aggressively building the Carnival brand and in getting back to the historical levels.
In terms of the specifics we -- as you know we are not going to give a lot of yield-by-yield or brand-by-brand detail.
So just in general I would say that the yields are showing some strength the Caribbean is we all know was very tough environment this year.
We anticipated that in our original guidance for the year.
So it was a difficult year overall in the Caribbean from a pricing environment.
But the brand has navigated that well and has offset some of that with strong onboard revenue lift and we’re feeling really good about it.
But as you know we don’t give lot of brand-by-brand detail.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Very good.
I wanted to touch on CapEx for a minute and make sure that we have an accurate estimate of your CapEx in 2015 and 2016.
Now that you’re going to be in probably increasing your dry dock days David.
Can you give us a sense of what your full CapEx is likely to look like in both ‘15 and ‘16? Yeah.
CapEx roughly speaking for 2014 is $3 billion.
That’s probably going to be similar to that level in 2015 and 2016.
We’re obviously still going through a lot of the detail for those years and we can give you better guidance as we make some more decisions down the road.
So it sounds like there’s going to be some incremental investment in these systems and based on our estimates does that -- it looks to me to be an incremental maybe $600 million to $700 million a year.
Is that in the right ballpark? I’m not sure what numbers you’re comparing but these are the numbers that I just quoted very close to the numbers that we have been talking about for the last six to nine months as far as my memory is concerned.
Yeah.
But it does reflect the higher level of investment enhancement cost as well as scrubbers for this intervening period not just the scrubbers.
Right.
That’s what I was after.
And then the last question is you mentioned that by the end of ‘15 probably the low 40s the number of ships will be complying with ICA.
Ultimately how many will have to be touched within the system.
Is it 70 ships is it 75 ships.
What is that number likely to be? Directionally the 70 numbers are our magnitude number that ultimately depends on future deployment plans and what have you but… Through 2016.
Yeah through 2016.
And current requirements.
Okay.
So roughly 25 of your ships are newer and really don’t have to be -- have to have much… No no we don’t need scrubber.
We don’t need the EGCs on every vessel.
It depends on where they are deployed.
ICA is not a universal.
So it depends where the ships are going and so some of the fleet doesn’t hit ICA-impacted destinations.
All right.
So the bottomline is ….
Haven’t cleared that from a flexibility standpoint most newbuilds will be equipped to handle the regulations just from our long-term planning standpoint.
Okay.
And when you get into future regulation… Yeah.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
No you go ahead.
Yeah.
I guess I was after is in ‘16 you’ll probably be doing another 20 to 25 ships and then you’re pretty much be done.
I think if you are trying to get a feel for it ‘15 over two-thirds that increase I think as David mentioned on the cost side that directional increase we’re sharing with you all right now was related to increased dry-dock days partly EGC related partly the fuel-saving technology related.
And when you go to ‘16 that will fall off and there will still be additional work to be done.
So we won’t recapture all of that but say two thirds of the cost of those increase that peak in dry-dock days for next year.
Two thirds of the cost related to that will probably disappear in ’16.
But we will continue the implementation aggressive implementation of both EGCs and the fuel-saving technologies because they have sharp payback periods.
Thanks guys.
Did that help you? Okay.
Good Yeah.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I just had one quick question on China.
I’m curios about what sort of headwinds you guys have on expanding the infrastructure with I guess just the people selling the cruises there and then maybe persuading some of the consumers that your products is different than some of the other products that have been out there in the past from other vendors like Star? I think fundamentally there are several issues in your question.
First off all just the consuming public out of the guests helping them understand what a cruise is is still a challenge there.
Now early on there are so few ships and such latent demand that it’s not a huge challenge because there are enough people there that have some familiarity that we can certainly fill the ships.
The challenges as we -- as a growth suggest communicate what a cruise is and that is not just a for in our case a gambling destination or gaming destination.
So there is a challenge.
Therefore we are in the work of doing that along with our distributors there that work with us and we are beginning to have the success with that.
On the other side of the coin in terms of the challenges in developing a market is a host of things and it includes port development that needs to be extensive port of people have to have a place to go and things to do when they get there.
There has to be availability of international ports where the Chinese are sort of free to go in and have the opportunity to experience and enjoy.
And then there has to be supply chain development locally there to provision and provide the infrastructure.
So there is a ton of work to be done is to add an early stage which is very very exciting and you can just see the potential and the possibility.
And like I said we are already experiencing good results and are excited.
It will take time.
It’s not going to happen overnight and that’s why we are sending Alan over there now because there have to be a number of areas sorted out and we’d like to have one of our top people full time there working it everyday to position it for what should be in the not too distant future a tremendous opportunity for the entire cruise industry and especially for Carnival Corporation.
Are you guys finding that cruisers are acquiring or purchasing the product more on their own or sell through to travel agent channel there? And if it is through the travel agent channel how sizeable is that at this point? Yeah.
It is definitely through distributors.
Technically and mostly it’s the ships that are chartered and so the distributors charter the ship and then market it to the Chinese populous.
That’s the structure today is working just fine.
It’s a good model.
That model has existed in other places and eventually of course they end up being probably direct selling the best ways off.
So right now it is through a distribution network.
The distribution network is well organized.
There are some very large entities involved in that in China domestic companies of great scale and significant market capitalization et cetera.
So these are professional organizations that do a good job.
Thank you so much.
Good morning.
This is Assia.
Congratulations on the great Q3 results and I have another follow-up question to China.
Do you see any improvement in terms of the relationship between China and Japan so that you can offer a more varied destination or experience for the Chinese passenger? Obviously we’re very respectful of relationships wherever we operate and that’s outside of our scope.
We do expect over time that there will be opportunities for easy exchange between those countries.
And obviously we have ships all imported in Japan as well.
And so we are optimistic about all that but that’s beyond our scope as a company to be involved in those types of relationship matters.
And Arnold now in Q1 that will be anniversarying the Caribbean capacity increase do you think that in 2015 we can get back to kind of the historical yield increases of about 1.9% that we’ve seen in the past or is it still too early to say? I think we are not really giving obviously any yield guidance at this point for 2015.
But I think directionally I would say things should look better in the Caribbean beginning in the later second quarter.
And through the third quarter it should be very good because there will be capacity reduction in the Caribbean next year versus this year.
So I think directionally it looks a more positive.
But at this time I would have to stop there because it would be little early to go beyond that.
Okay.
Understand.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Let me wrap up one other one on China if I may.
It appears that the functional currency is still the euro at this point given that everything is under Costa.
Do you see that functional currency changing in the near future as China grows significantly? And then secondly back to the cost comments clearly the scrubbers matters somewhat of a unique item and something that you just have to do.
And it sounds like -- and correct if I am wrong you termed that more as a one-off which we would agree with.
Future investments though do you see those as more the ongoing part of the business in redeploying some of those cost savings? Okay.
Thank you.
First of all on the China comment on the currency obviously we do have Costa.
We also have Princess in China as well.
And then I really can’t comment on the currency.
If you are talking about Tim the accounting functional currency for these entities at the moment because it is part of the Costa brand we look at it collectively together.
And you are right it is a euro functional currency.
But as that grows we will evaluate it.
Today it’s only two ships we’re writing third ship next year to the Costa Asia Group.
And so as that grows that might be something we will reevaluate.
But at the moment we are happy with the accounting for it.
Okay.
Got it.
And Princess? And Princes the same thing it’s just -- it was a half a ship last year.
And as that grows it’s U.S.
dollar functional currency.
And as that grows if there is a good reason we will reevaluate it.
Got it.
Okay.
And then your question on the costs could you repeat it please? Yeah.
I guess it boils down to it sounded like the scrubbers would be -- you are viewing that more as a one-off cost given the unique changes that you are seeing in the regulation.
But the rest of the investments would you view those as sort of one-off or would that just be forward in your cost savings? You said as it stands now half the rates are basically flat with inflation would be fair but then would those investments then be netted against that or would you view those more as a one-off? Got it.
So first of all the increase in dry-dock days that went planning for 2015 evolves both the EGCS as well as some fuel technologies fuel saving technologies.
Hopefully we will find additional fuel saving technologies but I think it’s particular group that we are looking at is more one-off and that’s why we will have a reduction in ’16 in the cost equivalent of the dry-dock days.
A significant reduction in the cost from the peak you will see in ’15.
So in that sense it is one-off.
In terms of other cost savings or other investments we are making investments in multiple areas whether it is a guest experience enhancement or whether it’s related to creating demand directly through advertise or promotions especially those kinds of things.
So those we will look at on a case-by-case basis and as we see an opportunity for return we will implement them and some are technology based enhance the guest experience are create leverage in generating demand so it’s a host of things.
So there will be some ongoing.
We had a peak with that right now it’s hard to say.
But what we will tell you is that we still have a focus on cost containment and so we are confidently harvesting opportunities to reduce our costs and then we decide whether those results will go to bottom line whether they will be reinvested to drive revenue because it gets to the double-digit return invested capital in the timeframe we are talking we will have to obviously drive revenue and that is our focus.
Great.
Thank you both.
Thank you.
Great.
Thanks.
Two question first on China.
Have you looked at partnering maybe different kind of venture with local travel companies there or is that something you’ve thought about and decided not to do or something that you’re considering? And then my other question is just on your expense guidance and I hate to focus so much on expense line obviously the yields are -- the yield growth here is above expectations and that’s what’s going to drive so much of the return recovery it’s really yield story.
But just one smaller sub-question and just your full year guidance I know there was some timing shift between Q3 and Q4 for your full year guidance non-fuel expense up slightly instead of being flat to up slightly just up slightly.
Is that just kind of the reinvesting in the product that you talked about? Is there anything particular there or is that just for that general reinvesting you talked about? Okay.
Let’s do the China question first.
In terms of partnerships obviously anything we do will announce at the time.
Clearly it would be safe to presume that we’re exploring all types of possibilities to see what makes the more sense and that’s one of the reasons for having Alan relocate to Shanghai and be there full time.
So we’re exploring on number of possibilities.
We’ll see what make sense.
We’ll work with the Chinese authorities and the various private and partially stand-on enterprises that that were there.
And we’ll sort it all out and we’re in the process of doing that.
But if we have anything specific to announce we’ll do it at the time.
And on the expense side go ahead David.
Yeah.
On the expense side Robin really you’re right we did narrow the range.
With every forecast there are always some unexpected things something positive something negative.
I guess overall with our forecast that we gave last quarter the trend is all generally been positive and we were very pleased with that as we raise the guidance.
But there were couple of unexpected things on the cost side.
We did have a pension expense that we had to take and put into the guidance in 2014.
So there was couple of minor additional expenses and that’s what narrowed the range up slightly.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And maybe just one last question.
You talked about in Q3 the strength in closing demand.
Would you say that was more closing demand for Europe and China or was actually Caribbean closing showing some improvement too? I would say the closing demand definitely included the Caribbean.
There’s no question about that.
But also was global not so much to China on closing demand because as I mentioned that’s a charter type business.
But in terms of Europe and the Caribbean in particular there were stronger closing demand.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hello there.
Can you just talk a little more on these dry-dock cost and their reversal? Do I take from what you’ve said so far that you have sort of initial thinking on unit costs in 2016 is that they would actually than be down year-on-year i.e.
your strategic initiatives offsetting any inflation again but then some of these perhaps not quite all but some of the 2% of dry-dock costs reversing to bring unit costs down? Those dry-dock costs can you just talk a little bit about how they interact with CapEx? My understanding was that it was sort of already CapEx for this equipment within the guidance.
Just sort of outline what things are capitalized and what things go through as OpEx? And then finally on the revenue side of things looking into next year it sounds from what you’ve said on early bookings is that the environment is actually switching around to being stronger beyond North American brands rather than your EAA brands for next year.
Can you just clarify whether my read of that is accurate and provide any sort of further color as to what that’s predominantly down to Carnival brand recovery or whether it’s more granule than that? Thank you very much.
Okay.
So I’ll take some because I heard some of them and I’ve to maybe check some.
So first of all in terms of costs being down in ’16 it would be premature at this point to give full clarity for ‘16 because we don’t know we are going to learn from what we’ve done this year.
We’ll learn from what we do in ‘15.
And we’ll make determinations on expenses going into ’16 later in ’15 in terms of what we may choose to invest in from a driving revenue and driving the business on a sustainable fashion standpoint.
So I have no prediction on the absolute.
What I can tell you though is that these costs that are occurring in ’15 were related to the dry dock that two thirds of that increase at least will disappear in ’16 will not be there.
It just won’t be necessary would have made the enhancements and it just won’t be necessary than that money.
So that’s what I can tell you on that part.
And as far as the dry-dock costs themselves during the dry dock period we do both like expense type work as well as capital type work.
So if you are installing an EGC on the ships or implementing some capital relating to fuel efficiency technology that might be some capital work.
But you also have the actual cost of the dry-dock services the dry-dock itself the power the water for the ship.
You’ve got to prove that generally stays with the ship that gets expensed and capital because you’re not sending a thousand crew home for two weeks.
So there’s a number of capital as well as expense type items that occur during the dry-dock period.
And from a cost perspective the increase was relating to the P&amp;L cost I’m referring to.
And then with regards to your question about North America versus Europe in terms of is there more strength in North America and Europe or flip-flopping the strength of the markets.
I would just say that we have seen the lengthening in the booking curve and higher prices in the first half of the year so far in North America.
And while we’ve seen somewhat latent of the booking curve for the first half of next year in Europe the prices are comparable pricing so that’s probably what you are reacting to.
Having said that I wouldn’t describe that broadly as North America being stronger than Europe or vice versa.
Some of it has to do with the comparisons year-to-year and just a mix.
So we’ll see how it goes.
We are optimistic about both markets going into 2015.
And just on that point my comment in relation to brand within North America.
Presumably given that the comps you would be more optimistic once you are able to breakdown brand individually would you be more optimistic specifically about the Carnival brand than the rest of the North American brands? I think the North America brands broadly if you lob it all together clearly the comps will be somewhat easier weighted average because of the Caribbean situation and the Carnival situation coming off of the last couple of years so the comps will be [come] (ph).
But on the other hand you have the Costa situation where Costa is still continuing to rebound and has some additional upside.
So that’s -- haven’t look that quite that way that would be a tough call to make off the curve.
Sure.
Thank you very much.
Hi.
Good morning.
Couple of questions please.
Could you give us some feel for the fuel efficiency programs that will be in place for next year? And to what extent they may offset the $0.10 increase in fuel that you’re expecting of the back of the changing regulation? And secondly what fuel price you have assumed in assessing that and also on the fourth quarter guidance? Clearly the onboard spend has been very good and you did point out not assume that every quarter.
And putting together your guidance will you more prudent in terms of thinking more along how you were looking at the third quarter can you put out your view in the third quarter or with what you actually delivered this quarter? Thank you.
Thank you.
Concerning the 10% eco impact on the higher fuel cost next year and whether some of the fuel saving technologies already in place are that we would deploy next year doing early season dry-dock will offset that.
The reality is that that 10% obviously or $0.10 excuse me what will be pretty much eliminated going into ’16 and will be going by ’17 because of the EGC installations that we are doing.
So it will go away in that context.
But obviously we will continue to aggressively pursue not only through the Department of Technologies but also managing deployments and managing the ships on itineraries from a fuel consumption standpoint as well as all the practices onboard.
And so we will continue pursue fuel savings as we have in the past.
Is there some upside in that for next year we will have to see as we manage through but right now we would just try to give you guys a little color something you might not have anticipated which was this increase in dry-dock so we could aggressively deploy the technologies so we can have the benefits sooner rather than later for many years to come.
Yeah.
Just to give you some color on the math given the amount of fuel 2014 prices a 1% change in the -- in our fuel consumption or the price of fuel would be like $2.06.
So we will take a 4% consumption reduction to offset the $0.10 eco that we talked about in 2015.
Just and we have been talking about getting a 2% to 3% fuel consumption improvement as we move forward.
And as far as the fuel price is concerned we always use basically the current fuel prices.
We locked off late last week when fuel was close to $100 a barrel in terms of Brent and fuel moves around daily and the numbers do change accordingly.
As far as onboard for the fourth quarter is concerned we did raise our onboard revenue guidance for the fourth quarter in fact we raise both the ticket and the onboard as I have mentioned in notes.
So we were conservative I am not assuming a repeat of 5.5 percentage point yield increase on onboard in the fourth quarter.
I would love to see it repeat itself.
But that’s not basic forward guidance something considerably lower in the more normalized level is baked in.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Yes.
Thanks.
And first question is just on your 3% unit costs guidance for next year.
Is that inclusive or exclusive of the costs savings that you refer to I know you talked about in December I am just aware that just probably last year you guided a cost about 4% and you ending up just slightly up? And then the other question is how worried are you about the industry order book? Clearly we are back to about prior peak for ’07 levels a lot of new ships coming on (indiscernible) your competitors should be brought one about that? Thank you.
Your second question was a little fuzzy if you can repeat that Jamie I’d appreciate it.
Couldn’t quite hear you Jamie on your second question we couldn’t hear you.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
How worried are you about the industry order book the amount of new ships and order particularly by competitors? I mean it seems to be back just about prior some of ’07 peak levels and most of it not from Carnival? Thank you.
Thank you.
I will take the second one first.
In terms of worried.
We are not worried.
We know the ships are coming as in the forecast we can see them.
I think in general that still there is not a huge capacity expansion in the industry.
Obviously we are helping that by being very measured in the net capacity addition that we bring on.
But we -- deployment makes the difference depends whether ships all get deployed in a cluster in a given destination market.
But generally speaking it’s a big planet and we think that for the ships that we have -- we see coming that the market will be able to absorb and it will continue to be able to deliver results made to deliver.
Go ahead David.
Sure.
Just one additional comment on the -- on Arnold was answering keep in mind that we’re expecting quite a bit of growth in the emerging markets particularly Asia and China.
So that should be able to profitably absorb a lot of that capacity and the other more established markets will see it more measured capacity increase.
As far as the costs are concern the 3% increase two-thirds of it was dry dock another third was some product initiatives and enhancements and that reinvesting in the product.
And I indicated that a line of sight at this time we see all the leveraging our scale completely offsetting inflation.
So that’s our best guess at this point in time but as I indicated in my notes we are not going to rest.
We’ll keep working if we’re able to accomplish more that would be great.
We’ll let you know but this is our best guess at this point.
And then one last comment measured capacity growth overall would clearly be very a good thing.
We are not counting on what other people do we can only control ourselves but obviously that would be a good thing.
And I guess… Okay.
…we are running over I guess operator will take one more question at this point.
Thank you.
Two questions for you number one were you much -- to get much more to fill when you gave guidance back in June than normal because the bake on yields seems very surprising in terms of its magnitude given how far into Q3 when you gave that guidance.
And secondly if you could give us an idea of how much inventory you’ve sold already for 2015 both for the U.S.
and Europe? Thank you.
Sure.
Well as far as the third quarter is concerned you really have to break it apart into a number of different pieces because about half of the increase was relating to onboard which we don’t have a lot of visibility into in advance.
And we’re very grateful.
Everything worked well.
All the things we’re doing seem to pan out in the third quarter and we hope that that continues and we see a positive trend.
On the ticket side of things half of the increase in ticket was relating to occupancy -- higher occupancy than we had expected and the other half was higher prices than we expected.
So it was very nice to see forecast that everything go in one particular direction but it was a lot of pieces that came together to create that overall increase and total was $0.11 per share.
In terms of the visibility….
And in terms of the visibility for 2015 is I think we’ve said many times for the next quarter out we are roughly in generally 85% to 95% booked.
When you get into the first quarter of 2015 the second quarter out we are roughly half booked and then as you go out to the second quarter the quarter booked.
So that’s how our historical number is in that where we’re roughly speaking today.
Okay.
And that’s great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
We really appreciate your interest and I’m sure we’ll be talking to some of you in the weeks to come.
But thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Arnold Donald.
Please go ahead sir.
Hi everyone this is Arnold Donald CEO of Carnival Corporation and Plc and Happy Holidays.
Thank you all for joining us for our fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today with me are Chairman Micky Arison; our CFO David Bernstein; and Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations.
Before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this call will be forward-looking.
I must refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
We finished our fiscal year with a strong fourth quarter exceeding guidance even before factoring in the benefits of lower fuels and leading to 2014 full year cash from operations of nearly $3.5 billion.
Earnings growth of almost 25% over 2013 and well above our full year guidance.
That performance is a credit to our outstanding 120 000 team members and associates across the globe.
In 2014 we enjoyed some early wins on our cross-brand collaboration efforts and we had a number of significant achievements.
Importantly the groundwork for continued progress is laid for 2015 and beyond as we aggressively move towards double digit return on invested capital.
Overcoming a number of obstacles as is often the case including the loss of higher yielding itineraries due to geopolitical concerns dramatic capacity increases on the Caribbean and capacity absorption issues in Japan as well as some other one-off impacts we were still able to deliver very strong results.
Despite the aforementioned competitive Caribbean impact in fact the team effort at the Carnival brand delivered a mid-single digit improvement in yield last quarter and a solid profit improvement for the year exceeding our internal plans.
We made consistent progress in Europe as Costa and AIDA continue to improve yields and contain costs through the benefit of cross collaboration efforts among our European brands.
In addition the formation of the HAL Group the Holland America Line Group under signed [ph] cruise has helped to accelerate cross-brand collaboration and streamline non-customer facing functions on the West Coast.
In China operating profit more than tripled due to a combination of capacity growth and yield improvement.
On having personally made several trips to China I am confident in our positioning and the market's potential.
Clearly we have established a solid foothold in this very important region as the largest player home porting in China and our development strategy is accelerating.
Our Chief Operations Officer Buckelew is doing a great job having recently relocated to Shanghai.
As previously announced we have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with CSSC to explore the possibility of shipbuilding as well as other strategic partnerships to foster growth of the industry in China.
Additionally we entered into an agreement with Italian shipbuilder Fincantieri to join us in the exploration of shipbuilding with CSSC.
This year we also reduced fuel consumption by another 5% or $0.14 per share bringing the cumulative reduction at 25% since 2007.
We are committed to reducing consumption and the technology that we are rolling out next year will continue to improve the fuel efficiency of our fleet.
At the same time by developing and installing exhaust gas cleaning technology we will greatly mitigate the impact of ECA coming into effect in January.
Importantly we made continued progress towards enhancing our fleet while maintaining our commitment to measured capacity growth.
We delivered two spectacular and considerably more efficient ships the Regal Princess and the Costa Diadema.
We celebrated their delivery with two highly publicized naming ceremonies this past [indiscernible] that was the star-studded Love Boat being guest lift [ph] board the Regal Princess in North America and shortly thereafter it was followed by the stunning Diadema two days later in fact christened by one of our own value travel agent partners Carolina Micheli in Italy and supported by Maids of Honors also travel agent partners from Germany France Spain and China.
We are very excited about our new ship deliveries which combined with the ship's exits results in only a 2% of that capacity increase next year.
In early 2015 we will welcome the new flagship for the P&amp;O fleet the Britannia specifically built for our U.K.
guests and the first to feature the striking rendition of the Union Jack across our hull as well as a host of new entertainment options.
Then later in the year we will welcome AIDAprima to Germany featuring an energy efficient new hull design; and just this month we signed orders for three ships Seabourn Holland America Lines and the Carnival Line for delivering in 2018 which brings the total order book to 10 vessels now that's an average of roughly one ship per brand in total over a four year period reflecting our commitment to measured capacity growth.
This past quarter we reached an agreements to sell three less efficient ships bringing the total sales agreements reached this year to four also reinforcing our commitment to measured capacity growth and at the same time we are striving to create relative scarcity by driving additional demand.
We have a number of demand creating initiatives that we have already or will be rolled out soon.
Beginning with the significant public relations effort across all brands to get our message to the vacationing public on what a great experience and of course value cruising represents.
Our brands share of voice and positive mentions in the media were up significantly in 2014.
Ongoing guest experience initiatives have continued to increase our already high satisfaction levels and drive advocacy among our established base of repeaters.
Maintaining our focus on training demand we have also further stepped up our marketing efforts with planned advertising spend higher than our already elevated spend in the past two years.
In total our planned spend is nearly 25% higher for 2015 versus 2012.
Our 2015 marketing program is designed to reach the new to cruise market including directing them to the experience that best resonates with their vacation preferences.
Setting them on a journey of being lifelong advocates for cruising on our brands.
As we head into the important 2015 wave season we are gearing up these efforts.
Yesterday we announced we will air a commercial on Super Bowl Sundays the world's biggest marketing stage.
The commercial is part of a multi-platform marketing initiative that has already begun and will extend well beyond the Super Bowl itself.
And as you may have read we are working with Academy Award winner Wally Pfister known for his work on the movies Inception Transcendence the Dark Knight Trilogy and dozens of other films to direct four full production creative concepts.
As part of our initiatives we are asking potential guests to provide their inputs on rough cuts of these concepts and as an incentive to participate one lucky person will win a cruise a year for life.
Potential guests can check out the concept by visiting our marketing challenge on the web site worldleadingcruiselines.com.
The focus of all these efforts is to create relative scarcity by driving demand for our brands that far outpace the supply ultimately leading to higher yields.
At the same time we have embarked on a number of strategic initiatives designed to move our company forward and improve our top and bottom lines.
Beginning with our segmentation study in North America the first we have done a cross-brands and the largest ever done in our industry and its nearing completion enabling us to gain insight on what guest value to increase our share of wallet both in ticket and on board.
We conducted extensive interviews with over 40 000 respondents and then we data mined our 30 million past guest database for insights to help grow demand.
The biggest opportunity for our industry is to increase our consideration in the overall vacation market and at the Carnival Corporation we are currently identifying the key areas to strengthen and improve our brands based on the segment that resonate most with each brand.
We have elevated our level of cross-brands global deployment planning and our objective in enhancing coordination of deployment across our brands is to drive greater penetration more effective capacity management and ultimately yields.
Our burns [ph] passed deep dive examination of our revenue management practices has been completed that effort was the first time we have looked at this important function across all brands to share best practices and identify gaps new practices and the best tools to use across the brand.
To facilitate our ongoing effort we recently hired a new Vice President of Group Revenue Performance and what internally we call All-Brands to sustain collaboration and rapid adoption of improved revenue management approaches.
In core markets where strong brands overlap price decisions have already started to be coordinated across the brands.
The brands have shared cutting edge tools and are now aligning among revenue management improvement roadmaps leading to more efficient and more effective efforts to increase yield.
On-board we have made continued progress on our strategy in the shops to improve retail beginning with the midst of short term initiatives and longer term efforts including new partnerships and store redesigns.
Pilot ships are seeing double digit improvement in sales from our short term initiatives.
Concerning cost containment we made progress leveraging our scale some early wins already contributed not including inflation avoidance $20 million in 2014.
We anticipate another $70 million to $80 million in actual year-to-year cost reductions to benefit 2015 from our savings on multiple procurement initiatives including protein produce and of course air.
Now that will be a total of $100 million in cumulative cost reductions by the end of 2015.
We currently have further opportunity in the areas of ports shore excursions and technical purchasing.
Over time these leveraging initiatives will help offset inflation in the broader base of non-fuel purchases.
We believe we are executing along a clear path to our double digit return on invested capital.
We improved return on invested capital by nearly one point in 2014 and we expect another point of improvement in 2015.
Clearly we cannot save our way to 10% plus return on invested capital we need to drive yield growth.
We need to drive it in the low to mid single digit range through higher ticket and on-board revenues.
We are committed to driving relative scarcity by creating even more demand for our brands that outpace this capacity.
We are focused on measured capacity growth by delivering innovative and significantly more efficient ships while at the same time removing from service less efficient ships.
This ongoing rotation will enhance the return potential of our fleet over time.
And clearly we need to contain cost increases through our initiatives to leverage scale.
Despite the higher hurdle on cost containment that measure capacity growth in producers [ph] we expect our initiatives to offset inflation over the next few years before reinvestment opportunities.
But of course we will continue to explore investment opportunities that provide attractive returns and drive yield improvement.
So in summary again we believe we are affirming on our path to achieving double digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years and before I turn it over to David we are very excited to announce that Christine Duffy former Cruise Lines International Association President will join the company and lead the Carnival Cruise Lines brand.
In addition Orlando Ashford has been appointed head of our Holland America Brand.
Christine brings over 30 years of experience in the travel industry complementing with her [indiscernible] skill set the great operational team we have on board already in Carnival.
And Orlando Ashford has a great history and track record of high performance culture change that is done in a number of organizations through his previous responsibility and adds a high complement to the team overall that we have at the leadership team and the skillsets we have on our overall management team.
So overall we are very confident in our path forward and I would now like to turn it over to David for comments.
Thank you Arnold.
Before I begin please note all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in constant dollars as this is a much more meaningful measure of our business trends.
I will start today with a summary of our guidance topping fourth quarter and full year results then I will provide some insight into our current bookings and finish up with some color on our 2015 December guidance.
Our non-GAAP EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.27.
I am excited to report that this was $0.10 above the midpoint of our September guidance and would have been above the high end of the September guidance range even without the benefit of lower fuel prices.
The improvement was essentially driven by two things $0.05 the majority of which we benefited from higher onboard and other yields as the improvement we saw in the third quarter was repeated again in the fourth quarter and $0.05 from lower fuel prices.
Now let's look at our fourth quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 2%.
The North American brands were up 2.5% while our European Australia and Asian brands also known as our EAA brands were up 1%.
Our total net revenue yields in the fourth quarter were up almost 3%.
Now let's break apart the two components of net revenue yields.
Net ticket yields were up over 2% and this was driven by 2% plus increases on both sides of the Atlantic.
Improvements in the North American brands were driven by seasonal European programs and late season Alaskan sailings.
Improvement in the EAA brands were driven by net itineraries and Australia.
Net onboard and other yields increased over 4% with increases on both sides of the Atlantic as well and across the world in almost all onboard categories.
This increase was considerably more positive than our September guidance it was another great quarter for onboard revenue.
Net cruise cost per ALBD excluding fuel was down almost 2% which was in line with the September guidance and driven by the timing of expenses between the quarters as the full year was up slightly.
Fuel prices this quarter were down 13% versus the prior year which saved us $0.09 per share.
In summary fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.23 higher than the prior year driven by improved net revenue yields worth $0.11 lower net cruise costs excluding fuel were $0.04 and lower fuel prices were $0.09.
During the fourth quarter there were a number of items that were included in our U.S.
GAAP results but excluded from our non-GAAP results such as an $80 million restructuring charge as we further leveraged to scale.
All of these items are detailed in the reconciliation table in our press release.
Looking back at the full year we turned the corner in 2014 with improved earnings and positive yields.
Our non-GAAP EPS was $1.96 versus $1.58 for the prior year roughly a 25% increase.
Our non-GAAP EPS exceeded the high end of our December guidance range of $1.40 to $1.80.
The improvement over last year's December guidance was essentially driven by two things $0.31 primarily from improved net revenue yields.
This resulted from better than expected net ticket yields at our continental European brands and better than expected onboarding other yields in the back half of the year and finally $0.05 from lower fuel prices.
Turning to our cash flows for 2014 cash provided by operations was nearly $3.5 billion 21% higher than last year and capital expenditures net of asset sales were roughly $2.5 billion leaving us nearly $1 billion of free cash flow most of which was returned to shareholders via a regular quarterly dividend.
Looking forward to 2015 as always we will have a much better indication of demand once we get into wave season which is still a few weeks away.
But the early indications are positive.
For 2015 we are expecting net revenue yields in constant dollars to grow by approximately 2%.
As we indicated in the press release we are forecasting net revenue yields in the first quarter to be up only slightly which is impacting the full year average.
We expect the remaining three quarters of 2015 collectively to be up 2.5% in constant dollars and if you normalize for the transactional currency impact the yields for the remaining $3 combined would be up 3%.
Our forecasted net revenue yields are prepared based on constant dollars.
The constant dollar calculation normalizes for the impact of currency translation for those entities whose functional currency is different from the U.S.
dollar.
What is not taken into consideration in the constant dollar calculation is the transactional impact relating to changes in exchange rates on revenues that are in a currency other than the brand's functional currency.
Historically the transactional impact of currency on net revenue yields has been de minimis.
However we will continue to monitor transactional currency impacts and highlight them when it makes sense.
So in summary our constant dollar full year net revenue yield guidance of approximately 2% is impacted both by the first quarter yield guidance which is a couple of percentage points lower than the rest of the year collectively and transactional currency impacts.
The first quarter continues to be impacted by capacity in the Caribbean which represents almost half of our first quarter capacity but for the subsequent three quarters of the year the Caribbean only represents on average less than 30% of our capacity.
For the full year we are expecting to see yield improvements in almost all itineraries including the Caribbean.
However we are being cautious in Australia where the industry capacity is expected to increase by 20% this year.
Now let's turn to bookings; at this point for the first three quarters of 2015 cumulative fleet wide bookings are nicely ahead at slightly higher prices for both of our two major business segments.
Drilling down into the booking patterns first for our North American brands; the Caribbean pricing is currently in line with the prior year at nicely higher occupancy which bodes well for pricing on future bookings.
Booking values during the last quarter are down but that's because we are ahead and we are still ahead at the moment.
Remember it is a zero sum game.
Prices on these bookings are down slightly which is reflected in our first quarter yield guidance.
All other North American brand appointments combined which includes the seasonal European program and Alaska are nicely ahead on both price and occupancy.
Booking volumes during the last quarter have been good ahead of the prior year but at lower prices driven by transactional currency impacts.
Secondly our EAA brands; Europe itineraries are nicely ahead on occupancy at better prices.
Booking volumes for these itineraries during the last quarter are also nicely higher than the prior year at better prices.
Now turning to costs; net cruise costs without fuel per ALBD are expected to be up approximately 3% for 2015.
As I mentioned on the September conference call the majority of the increase is due to significantly higher drydock days in 2015 as we are working hard to accomplish a number of things.
First installing exhaust gas cleaning systems or more commonly known as scrubbers which will reduce the impact of the new 2015 ECA requirements.
Second installing new fuel efficiency technology to further reduce fuel consumption and third progressing the vessel enhancements we announced last year.
We expect the majority of the higher drydock costs in 2015 will be reversed since we currently anticipate a lower level of drydock days in 2016.
Of the remaining one percentage increase the majority is driven by higher advertising expense and product enhancements.
For 2015 even after the impact of the new ECA requirements which we expect to cost about $0.10 we are forecasting to benefit from lower price of fuel net of realized losses on fuel derivatives by $0.61.
Partially offsetting this -- or unfavorable currency exchange rate movements including both translational and transactional currency impact costing us $0.20.
Putting all these factors together our non-GAAP EPS guidance for 2015 is $2.30 to $2.60 versus $1.96 for 2014.
On a final note I want to share with you our current rules of thumb about the impact that currency and fuel prices can have on our results.
To start with a 10% change in all [indiscernible] currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar would impact our P&amp;L by approximately $0.30 per share for the full year and $0.04 for the first quarter.
This includes both translational and transactional currency impacts.
The fuel price changes as our fuel insurance program uses zero cost collars to protect against fuel price spikes every 10% change in the price of fuel has a different impact once the price of Brent moves outside the collars.
Therefore we laid out a sensitivity table in the press release that chose the full year non-GAAP EPS impact if the price of Brent moves up or down from the $63 used to determine our December guidance earlier this week.
At the moment we have collars for roughly half of our consumption for 2015 with four starting at $80.
So essentially we benefit from a 100% of the fuel price drop to $80 and roughly speaking we still enjoyed 50% of the benefit of any fuel price drop below $80.
I say roughly speaking because in these calculations we assume a static relationship between the price of Brent and the price of bunker as each moves up and down.
We all know the relationship has a tendency to move over time but the correlation is recently good over the longer term.
In the press release we also included a table of the fuel derivatives we currently have for 2015 through 2018.
And now operator we are ready to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Please proceed.
I think that may be me this is Robin Farley.
Two questions first is I wonder if you could give us any kind of cumulative sense how the Costa brand and the Carnival brand -- and at this point through the end of this year versus peak pricing going back to 2007.
Just to get a sense of sort of how much recovery is left in each of those brands in whatever way you might quantify for that? And then secondly your ship announcement this morning didn't have the cost per berth and I wonder if we should assume both of them are sister ships to 2016 deliveries how different is the cost on 2018 delivery? Thanks.
Hey happy holidays to your Robin.
First of all concerning your question on Costa and Carnival obviously we typically don't provide brand specific guidance; but through a lot of hard work both brands are working their way back and we have been impacted and the Costa brand by a significant economic downturn a year but we are definitely on pace for a three to four year recovery we just had a very good year with Costa and we expect another one; Michael Thamm and his team are doing a great job over there.
And hopefully the moderately improving European economic situation is going to help us.
In regards to Carnival we did a really good job offsetting the revenue shortfall that they experienced in the first half and then we are working really hard to accelerate that.
The profit improvement in 2014 was good and we see things pointing up especially as we get into the second and third quarters next year when the Caribbean capacity decreases.
And then concerning your second question on the fleet the ships that we announced today things are tightening up a bit there is inflation and so on.
But we are very pleased with the ships that we have announced in terms of the deals we have constructed for those that gives a shipyard lots of incentive to do high quality work and give us an excellent opportunity for very high return on invested capital given the ship's designs and the department plans going ahead.
I hope I answered your questions Robin? Not as specifically as I hoped maybe if you could just talk one last one and then -- Sure.
By all means.
I don't know if you have any initial thoughts on the potential for Cuba and how you think that could affect kind of -- itineraries you get out to when you look at your Caribbean mix thing you know 35% or so of your fleet and just sort of any initial thoughts I realize its quite early? There is no question the legislative embargo was lifted Cuba is a tremendous opportunity.
There is a lot of pent-up demand to visit Cuba.
It would allow us some very fuel efficient itineraries also just new itineraries for those who love to go to Caribbean.
There is about 11 ports that are able today to accommodate our ships.
There are some size restrictions and those particularly in Havana.
So we have a variety of ships and different sizes that can go to multiple ports.
The Havana port specifically has a relatively shallow drafts that will take some smaller ships that can't be drenched because of some of them over there -- the tunnels that is there.
But there will be investment in ports and all the infrastructure required all the time should the legislative embargo be lifted.
But we are excited about the prospects for Cuba and it would definitely create the demand that we need to have the relative scarcity to drive yields.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Hendrix with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi Felicia Hendrix and good morning and happy holidays.
David wondering if you could just walk us through how you get to the high end of your earnings guidance range given the metrics that you gave us in the release? We're talking about a range that is $0.30 wide which is essentially two points of yield and so at the high end of the range from the midpoint you're probably either talking about a point additional yield or something less than a point of additional yield and something at a slightly less costs.
Those are the types of things in terms of the guidance range that we are looking at.
Okay.
That's helpful because when you gave us the yields and the costs those weren't ranges.
But what I am hearing from you is that implicit in your EPS guidance is some kind of yields and cost range? Yes and basically the approximately 2% and approximately 3% was the midpoint of the range.
Right okay.
And then also David keeping you in the hot seat here regarding your overall net yield forecast thank you for the color.
You mentioned Australia as being an area of caution given the capacity growth that's there.
Just wondering if you could give us some more color on your thoughts on what you're seeing and thinking about Europe next year because capacity is growing there while its mid-single digits and its not an onerous number it is up a lot versus a steep decline in 2014.
So are you baking in any kind of conservatism for Europe and then also maybe regarding the economy there or how are you thinking about that? Overall we are looking at yields in Europe to be up we are looking it both for the seasonal European program for our North American brands as well as our EAA brands.
So we have positive yields included in the forecast for both and we feel very good about that.
We give you our best guess all the time and so up approximately 2% is our best guess given what we are seeing.
But remember wave season is a few weeks and we will have a much better indication of demand when we get into January-February timeframe.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi two questions; just to follow-up on Robin's question on cost; the reason why are so focused in on it is that it sounded like you're still in recovery mode for the brand and that would be a lot longer than I would have thought for the brand to come back.
If costs are now trending more along with the other European brands or if there is still something unique about it? And then just one other thing we noticed in the back of the press release there was a restructuring charge of $18 million trademark and other impairment charges in Q4? I just wanted to know what that was and whether it was related to a specific brand or something like that? Thank you.
I will answer the second part first $80 million refers to actions in both the Costa Group and the Holland America Group where we set up reserves as they effect the cross brand collaboration coordination some redundancies widened and we set up some reserves accommodate that and the savings from that are reflected in the guidance in the range that we have given for 2015.
And what was the first part of your question again? Let me answer on the loss Steve the losses on the ship sales and ship impairments.
What was included in the fourth quarter was relating to the three ships that we talked about that will be leaving the fleet and that was the $70 million in the fourth quarter.
The impairments relate to prior periods which are also included in the table.
Okay.
And then your first question was back on Costa again; look the reality is we have moved on and we are focused now on driving yields and containing costs.
But as you guys asked the questions about previous points in time and performance; clearly we feel the cost of recovery was impaired by the environment and economic environment in Europe.
But we had a good year in Costa; we had excellent improvement in profitability and expect to grow again next year.
So then just sticking on that -- but I guess what we are asking is is like Costa AIDA Cunard just as European brands; are those three brands all moving together or is Costa still not showing the same kind of momentum both the upside and to the downside as the other -- Europe is not one market so you have the U.K.
you have the Baltic the Mediterranean and so on.
The brand sorts differently in terms of their source markets the countries people come from that the weight of all that.
So those are very three different brands; AIDA the German brand almost exclusively sourced in the German market serves Germans almost exclusively so that brand is not very-very well and continues to do so.
The U.K.
is heavily sourced obviously with U.K.
folks and whatever happens in the U.K.
and [indiscernible].
But Cunard is a global brand; Cunard sources from the U.K.
North America Asia everywhere.
So you are talking about apples oranges and apricots kind of a thing.
So we would not expect them to move in unison because Europe is not one place and even those brands not all source exclusively from Europe.
But Costa is doing well Cunard is doing well its just P&amp;O which I did mention and AIDA is doing very well.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Wieczynski with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys.
So David you specifically called out Australia; and I know capacity there is up somewhere between 15% and 20% for the industry next year; but is that something that you are currently seeing right now in terms of pressure or is that something you're saying further down the road you think that could be something that that market could come under pressure? I wasn't talking about pressure; Australia has seen double digit capacity increases it absorbed it very well.
All I was trying to do as I was indicating that all the different programs were going to be up next year including the Caribbean; but I was just cautioning you that Australia may not be up as much as some of the others because of the larger capacity increase in that market.
Okay got you.
And then second question it’s a question we get a lot from investors but given where oil is today and I know you guys have never hedged in the past and you have your field insurance [ph] out there but is there any discussion going on at this point in terms of doing something more to the extreme in terms of basically trying to lock in more fuel at today's prices? Our practice has been to use collars to mitigate against spikes and the prices and that will be our practice going forward.
Okay.
And then last -- David can I just ask one housekeeping question; do you have the capacity increases for all of Carnival by quarter? We do -- For first quarter we are up 2.5%; second quarter is up 3%; third quarter is up 1.3%; fourth quarter is up 4% for a total of 2.7 on the year.
Okay thanks guys.
Happy Holidays.
Sounds a little high above the ship -- Let me just double check the number.
I think that number is a little high.
We will get the right number back to you.
Beth will give it to you.
Let's go to the next question I will go back to that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
Going back to that last question Arnold you mentioned that your practice is to use collars that's not been set in stone for a long period of time and you've seen an unprecedented move in the price of crude.
And just the lift in crude between sort of 2006 and 2012 devastated the company's return on invested capital; so I am just wondering you sound committed to the collars but is there any flexibility to moving to hedges because if we do see a move back in crude its going to have a negative impact on your strategy of lifting your return on invested capital? Well first of all with regards to return on invested capital our plan has always been -- we weren't counting on fuel to drop and we don't know what fuel is going to do in the future.
So we need to get double digit return on invested capital regardless.
Now clearly if fuel continues where it is or drops further that would accelerate the timeline to get to the double digit return on invested capital.
But we need to get there regardless so that's number one.
And number two is that we are protecting against spikes so we want to protect against the downside and there is all kinds of debate around hedging and any cost of money to hedging and you have to decided whether its worth it.
In our case right now we didn't hedge and so we have been able to benefit in the recent drops in fuel prices that we had hedged.
Before this we wouldn't be enjoying quite as much benefit as we are today.
Right.
But I am just if there is some flexibility at the board level on changing your strategy? We will review it consistently.
Our current recommendation is to maintain the color practice that we have.
But I am sure that that will be a conversation going forward.
Okay.
And my other question is can you give me a sense of the actual drydock days that are budgeted for 2015 and how that's different from 2014? What I am trying to get at is when you think of how many ships in your fleet you really need to touch whether its scrubber technology or vessel enhancement are you -- is the implication that really by the end of 2015 all of that incremental investment and drydock days will be done by the end of 2015? I think the way to look at it is first of all we have got 550 drydock days in plan for 2015 that's a 50% increase over what occurred in 2014.
There is no normal for drydock days but if you want a number on average to think about over time that would average out as probably in the 400 to 450 day type of range.
In terms of the technologies the fuel consumption saving technologies as well as the exhaust cleaning systems; that's peaking for certain this year in 2015.
A lot of that will be done by 2016 and we should be pretty much done with that completely by 2017.
But there will be a major tailwind for 2016 from the reduced number of drydock days 2016 compared to 2015.
So you would expect it to go back down to that average of 400 to 450 perhaps? Yes it will be in that range.
We have to plan -- there is also other enhancements that we may put onboard to drive revenue and so on.
But directionally you're absolutely right.
I am going to correct the capacity growth from earlier.
The latest figures to cancel [ph] the ship sales for next year are 1.7% in the first quarter 2.3% in the second 0.6% in the third quarter 3.3% in the fourth quarter for a total of 2% flat on the year.
Right.
Okay.
That does it for me.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you talk a little bit about how the marketing has evolved in China as you guys have learned more about the consumer there and how you are better targeting the consumer base in the region? Well first of all it continues to evolve obviously and in reality if there is pent-up demand.
What we have done is based on the experience of Costa which has been there since 2006 we have gone with Italy's finest as the theme for the Costa brand and that's marketed through the various distributors in China who market directly to the Chinese public as well as there is general marketing effort through internet and through TV.
On Princess side of things they were offering international experience from an American type perspective.
We have catered a number of the features on the ships to the Chinese consuming public.
But we are all fortunate whether its ourselves or others in the industry that are participating in that market.
It’s a very large market.
There is pent-up demand and we will continue to learn to perfect both the guest experience onboard as well as how to reach out to the Chinese public that is eligible for cruising.
And then do you guys have just forward CapEx estimates so we can think about how those new ships might impact spend? Sure.
We are looking at $3 billion and this includes newbuilds as well for 2015 and a little bit higher probably about $3.3 billion for 2016 and roughly $2 billion for 2017.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Carter with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Is it possible to just give us a flavor of thinking about the vessel enhancements you have done so far on Carnival Cruise Lines? What sort of impacts you've seen in terms of revenues post enhancements versus pre-enhancements? And then second you obviously talked -- I am sorry go ahead.
Then just second question just on the pent-up demand in Asia there is obviously a lot of capacity coming into Asia forecast over the next few years.
So do you see any risk at all in terms of yield growth coming under pressure or do you think the demand far outweighs the supply? First of all concerning the Fun Ship 2.0 enhancements for Carnival there is not question that it contributed with one of the contributors to the strong performance of our Carnival brand this year and the overall lift in the profitability of that brand that we saw.
It also shows us guest satisfaction scores onboard and it certainly helped to further invigorate that brand and keep it very relevant for the guests and gradually in a power way and it has positioned us well going into next year.
With regard to China your question again? I am just wondering about -- obviously you talk about this there is a lot of pent-up demand but there is also a lot of capacity of all the major lines going -- just your advice? Right now we are seeing yield improvements.
But over time depending on how things evolve there there could be periods of out of sync capacity introductions to demand.
But right now for 2015 where we have line of sight demand is strong and we are anticipating yield improvement and continued progress in China.
Can you try and quantify a little bit in terms of onboard spend sort of percentage changes on the vessels that have the enhancement investment? Is there any way of just giving us a flavor -- Well of course how it has been [ph] in terms of Carnival you mean? Yeah post the investments on Carnival Cruise Lines? Again a little more complicated than that.
Its not just the Fun Ship 2.0 investment that would drive onboard revenues.
But onboard revenue lift was strong as we indicated in 5% in the fourth quarter.
We don't see that as an ongoing run-rate of improvement but we certainly see strong improvement and have that in our plan to the guidance we have given you going forward.
Some of that comes from not so much Fun Ship 2.0 but some different things we have done and we have learned through the brand collaboration and coordination and seeing all other things and clearly some of it does come directly from the Fun Ship 2.0.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you and happy holidays Merry Christmas to everyone.
A couple here just returning to the several questions you have had on Costa.
You said that Costa is improving I think maybe if you could give some color it would be greatly appreciated I think by everyone.
If you strip out China which obviously you're using Princess and Costa in China led by Costa how is Costa doing ex-China I guess is maybe the question I'd like to drill in on? And then the FX going forward can you give us a color how much is U.S.
dollar and then the major other currencies the Euro Pound and Aussie on a revenue and EBIT basis looking to 2015? Okay with regard to Costa China and then the European context Costa is doing very well but obviously as you move ships out you have got less capacity in Europe.
But in terms of the capacity out there is higher performing [indiscernible].
We just don't give details by brand but the reality is Costa has had a very nice recovery in Europe and has set a strong performance in Asia.
I will let David answer your exchange question.
Yeah as far as the various currencies if you look at our revenue roughly speaking 50% is in U.S.
dollars something around a quarter of our revenue is in Euros.
GBP is probably 12% Aussie dollar 10% and then everything else is just a few percentage -- should add up to the total.
Tim I don't have the EBITDA by currency but you can always call Beth and she can give you some more detail after the call.
Okay great.
And one last one David for you on FX and the net cruise costs.
You indicated that still you are looking at costs to be up roughly 3% with all the vessel enhancements drydocks and scrubbers and everything.
That's the guidance you guys gave 90 days ago and with some of your costs denominated in foreign currencies we would expect that to come down.
Again not to maybe lead the question here but are we talking -- is that within the approximate 3% and then you said 3% to a midpoint range or is there -- have you all decided for 2015 to maybe spend a little bit more the Super Bowl ad or something else? Let me make a quick comment before David answers; first of all we have made progress against that 3% we lost some of that progress when we sold the ship.
But we got net positives from the sale of the ship but the reality is it was a drag on the cost side that David had added.
There was a lot of changes in September and today as Arnold indicated.
And believe it or not the sale of the Costa Celebration had an impact on 0.3 on the overall cost on a per ALBD basis.
So that offset the total dollars and the savings flowed to the bottom line but on a per ALBD calculation we had less ALBDs which made the percentage go up -- back up to the 3%.
Okay okay.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva with Infinity Research.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Happy Holidays to you as well.
I had one quick question on the Carnival brand.
We have seen the recovery in the second half of the year a lot of that was onboard and I think Arnold you mentioned that we shouldn't be counting on that to continue indefinitely.
Were there any other specific initiatives or was it more demand and market related? First of all in terms of the onboard we expect it to continue I just don't want you guys locked in on a 5% run rate.
We will work hard to do that in better but we are not forecasting that kind of a run rate going forward.
But we absolutely expect it to do better going forward and the improvement is included in the plan.
In terms of overall though Carnival is on a very good track and we are very pleased with that.
I do want to answer your question specifically though so if you want to restate part of it I will.
I guess my question is whether demand market -- while demand has improved in the back half of the year or was it something that relates more specifically to the efforts you have made at this brand? Well it’s a combination too if you ask an industry demand certainly because there was so much capacity in the Caribbean.
Overall the industry saw more people failing and therefore by definition there was increased demand.
Our take of [ph] yield was up in that period and we are forecasting it to be up certainly in the second third and fourth quarters next year helped by the fact that there will be significant capacity reduction late in the second quarter going into the third quarter but also helped by the performance of the brand itself and then the overall efforts we have on the way to create demand.
Thank you Arnold.
That was helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Stanford with Lazarus.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon everybody.
Good morning.
Just a quick question please on the impact of the additional fuel costs relating to ECA.
Has that guidance changed at all since you last update the market or is it the same as it was before? Thank you.
The guidance is the same.
We have mitigated what would have been a $0.35 a share impact down to $0.10 for next year; and overtime that will disappear that will be reduced in 2016 and all but gone in 2017.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stuart Gordon with Berenberg.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
I apologize.
We actually have about five [indiscernible] from across the lake.
Two questions please; the first one is you spoke earlier but you know one thing as to forecast onboard going at the same pace as it has done.
Could you give us a better color and what kind of difference it would make to your guidance as it did? And the second question is is on the returns obviously we have seen the improvement this year you're guiding for 1% improvement in 2015.
But it appears if we take what you said at the third quarter that without the change to fuel actually returns into 2015 would have gone down.
Was that your thinking at the third quarter or has your outlook for 2015 tempered slightly since? Okay.
First of all I hope that's really test because you are still on the phone with us.
For the second part David go ahead.
As far as the onboard is concerned every percentage point increase in onboard revenue yields is worth about $0.04 in 2015.
So we were forecasting something in the range we have included in the guidance of 2%.
If it turns out to be 3% then we got to pick up $0.04.
And as far as the return on invested capital is concerned I mean overall if you looked at the full year increase on the midpoint versus 2013 the midpoint of 2.45 you're talking about a $0.49 or a $0.50 increase overall.
Fuel and currency net of both the transactional and translational impact was about a $0.41 increase.
So we did have some operational increase and that's the result of the 2% yields offset by the 3% costs.
So there was other increases putting aside the operational increase which would have drove return on invested capital up.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And there are no questions at this time.
I will turn the call back to you sir.
End of Q&amp;A Okay everyone thank you very much.
Happy Holidays we are clearly excited about what we have going on here and we look forward to seeing you throughout the new year.
Happy Holidays.
Take a look at the commercials.
Yeah.
Take a look at worldleadingcruiselines.com look at the spots and get ready for the Super Bowl.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Robin Farley from UBS.
Please go ahead.
This is [indiscernible] for Robin.
Could you perhaps talk a little bit about what drove upside in Q1? Primarily if you could breakdown perhaps some of the upside you saw in the Carnival brand as well as some commentary if you could on the Caribbean environment post Q1 would be helpful.
Thank you.
Good morning Robin.
I will let David comment first.
Go ahead David.
Yes.
If we talk about what drove the yields up in Q1 essentially as I had indicated the onboard and other yields were up 8% and in constant currency the net ticket yields were up 1%.
So collectively together the onboard had a disproportional impact overall.
You know the Caribbean environment in the first quarter as I indicated in my notes the pricing was lower but we are looking at the Caribbean environment being positive for the rest of the year.
It's been very strong in terms of bookings and Carnival is doing very well.
So Arnold you talked about this a little bit just briefly in your opening commentary.
But can you talk a little bit about your booked load position today relative to maybe where it's been in the past in terms of historical levels? Both in North America and in Europe we are ahead on bookings.
The bookings are definitely stronger and they are at high yields.
So we've definitely seen an improvement both from the hard work of our people within all the brands and with the additional PR and other demand creation activities we've seen an improvement in the booking pace.
And relative to historical levels I mean Steve I think a year ago I indicated we were at the lower end of historical levels and we continue to make progress and move up but we're still towards the lower end but we made progress and it's very positive trends.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I guess with the announcement yesterday in terms of the ship order the pretty large ship order.
I guess can you go into a little bit more detail about maybe what went into that in terms of why putting in such a big order at this point? Was it something to do with currency? Was it trying to lock up the yards where the yards give you some pretty good prices? Can you just give us a little bit more detail there? Yes.
Definitely nothing to do with currency.
We at times just require more forward planning to our advantage to communicate with the yards and have a longer term plan because they have to work a lot of subcontractors.
And it gives them the opportunity to plan further out and to be more effective in lining up those subcontractors.
We also included in the non-ship orders a new ship design and that requires additional forward planning as a prototype.
And so that’s why we did it.
We don’t have all the details yet.
We have not signed contracts with each of the yards for each of the ships.
We will be happy to share those details once we do that.
But it was important for us to get out in front from a planning standpoint to empower the yards and to get in front of our new design.
Okay.
Got you.
And can I ask one real quick question to David.
For David for this accounting change that you just called out I guess the question is are different brands using different accounting practices? I'm just trying to understand what the difference is here.
Yes.
It's very simple.
I mean we had one brand who is using -- we had two acceptable accounting methods which our auditors agreed with.
But there was one brand that was using a different method and so what we decided to do was make the brands consistent just in case as we go forward in the future the difference became material.
And so we decided to revise the accounting as I indicated in my notes.
Overall it was just $0.11 over a five plus year period.
So it's a couple of pennies a year.
David this is for you.
This commentary about transaction and translation has left a lot of investors and us very confused this morning.
So I'm hoping that you can walk us through a few things.
First is can you just walk us through where this transactional impact is coming from? You haven't really broken it out before like this.
And then the second point is if your new net yield guidance is up 3.4% as ex translation and transaction I'm just trying to figure out what the apples-to-apples is for your prior guidance for net yields for the year which was up 2% at the midpoint.
If you ex out translation and transaction what would that number have been? Okay.
I think that’s three or four questions in there but I will try to answer them one at a time.
The way to think of the constant currency that we are talking about is to think of it in terms of the prices that the consumer pays.
And so we are talking of that in the local currency.
So were talking about a 3% to 4% increase in yields in constant currency then that’s a 3% to 4% increase in price in the local currency that the consumer pays.
And that’s probably the most important underlying metric for us to look at in terms of the strength of the business.
When you compare that 3% to 4% that we gave back to December if you remember back in my notes in December I did say that in constant currency the yields were up 0.5% more.
So the two -- the comparison is back to 2.5%.
And so it was approximately 2 in constant dollars and 2.5 in constant currency.
And that’s why I indicated in my notes that we went from that approximately 2.5 up a percentage point to a mid-point 3.5.
The difference between the two I think everybody understands the translational impact when you have a brand like Costa in euros and you translate it back into U.S.
dollars.
That’s the translational impact as a result of the change in FX rates that we capture in the constant dollar measure.
But the transactional impact the best example of that is like Princess.
Princess has a couple of ships sailing in Australia and they sell in the local currency in Australia.
And when the Australian dollar moves compared to the U.S.
dollar transacting that back into U.S.
dollars is at a different rate and that is what we call the transactional currency impact.
Probably 80% of the [plus] [ph] of the currency impact that we have within the company is translational.
And so when currency would move by small amounts on a regular basis the constant dollar substantially accounted for all of the movement.
But with the big moves in currency recently if you look at our press release you will notice that the difference between the current dollar yields and the current currency yields are 7.5%.
Of that 1.5% is the transactional impact.
So because currency has moved so much the transactional impact has become more meaningful and therefore we wanted to disclose it to everybody and make sure people were aware of what was going on.
Okay.
So that's very helpful.
So as you said in your release based on the current booking strength you're going to 3.4% and that's one point higher than your December guidance and it looks like you beat the quarter by at the midpoint about 1 point on yield.
So what I'm trying to figure out is are you just passing through that upside or is your 3% to 4% inclusive of strength that you're seeing -- new strength that you're seeing in the rest of the year versus what you were seeing before? It's considerably more new strength that we are seeing and we did raise the raise the rest of the year.
I guess the best way to kind of couch that is I indicated that the net revenue yield was worth about $0.06 in the first quarter and we raised the whole year by 1%.
So that’s worth as we have always told you about $0.17.
So you can see not only did we flow through the first quarter but we raised the rest of the yield as well.
Thanks for taking my call and just to sort of follow-up on that last response to the last question.
So you raised or you flowed through the $0.06 yield beat to the rest of the year.
How should I think about that remaining $0.11? Is it more weighted towards 2Q or are we thinking evenly weighted to the rest of the year in terms of the yield increase on the guide for the remaining three quarters? From a guidance perspective we took up the remaining three quarters but I would like to point out that what we took up in the remaining three quarters was the [tick up] [ph] on the net ticket yield.
We left from our December guidance for the remaining three quarters we left the on board and other yield the same.
And the reason there being obviously you have a lot more visibility about ticket yields going forward than you do about onboard spend which obviously doesn't happen until it happens.
Yes.
More visibility James and the other reason is we also have tougher comparisons going for us because we have had several quarters beginning since late last year with increased rates of improvement in onboard spent.
So the comparisons are being a little tougher going forward too.
Got it.
And then just a question on currency from a demand perspective.
Are you seeing any impact in terms of bookings that you think represent the big appreciation of the American dollar? Whether it's more Americans interested in traveling overseas given the strength of that dollar on cruises or the relative value of a land-based hotel and some overseas destination.
Do you think there's anything that's changed excluding the translational and transactional impact of currency just on the demand side? On the margin there it could be a little bit of activity but we haven't really measured any significant impact of people responding to the currencies.
And a lot of it is just how we price things too you know local currencies for the European brands dollar for us.
And so we haven't seen any big lift in anything.
Alaska is super strong but again I am not sure that's a currency driven thing.
I'm here.
So my question is obviously you raised the yield guidance which is good to hear.
And if you kind of think about the different regions where do you feel stronger about for the current year? Where do you have more confidence? And just kind of breaking out the 3% to 4% is it going to be a little bit stronger in Europe than the Caribbean? How would you characterize that? Well I think clearly we are expecting relative uptick in the Caribbean.
Caribbean was really crowded last year and going forward we see strength in the Caribbean and there's going to be a different capacity level in the Caribbean.
So that'll bode well as well and it's easier comparisons on the Caribbean relative.
So Caribbean's going to be relatively stronger.
We've seen strength in Alaska but overall we are seeing yield opportunities everywhere in the world.
But on a relative basis if you are looking for it I would have to say relative basis the Caribbean will look even stronger than some of the others.
Yes.
Good.
And from what we can see it looks like the Caribbean especially Carnival brand seems to be picking up throughout the year.
So would you expect the Caribbean net yields that you're receiving to maybe accelerate throughout the year? Or is it a one-time step up function in the second quarter and won't be consistent? Yes.
It's early to tell.
But we are seeing a continued improvement in the overall environment particularly in the third quarter where the industry capacity is down double-digits.
So we are expecting to see a continued improvement at least through the third quarter and it's very rarely for the fourth.
But we are forecasting good strong yields there as well.
Going back to your CapEx.
As you layer in the progress payments for your new ship orders to what degree will it impact your ability and desire to return cash to shareholders over the coming three years? Well first of all we are clearly focused on delivering double-digit return on invested capital.
And as we move towards that and are successful in that obviously we're going to generate a lot of cash.
And the excess cash that's not being reinvested back into the business as in the past will be distributed to shareholders either through dividends and/or share buyback.
So we do see an opportunity to deliver more to shareholders in that timeframe going forward based on our expected continued progress on the path of double-digit return on invested capital.
While at the same time having the capital required to invest in the business to be able to sustain that performance and build on it.
Is it more likely that you take it -- go ahead.
No the only thing...
I am just wondering...
Go ahead Harry.
Bobbing and weaving.
Okay.
So I'm just wondering if it's more likely to see first a lift in the base dividend versus more aggressive share repurchases.
That's a Board decision and we will make the decision at the time.
Historically it's kind of certain pattern but we will make that decision along the way.
Okay.
And then...
It is nine ships and all that but the reality is it's still just two to three ships a year.
And that’s not dramatically different than what we have done in the recent past here.
Still measured capacity growth.
Still managing capital.
We have to -- the only way we are going to get double digit return on invested capital is through yield and revenue.
But we have to be disciplined in cost containment and we have to be wise in our choice of capital deployment and ensure that any capital we deploy does give us double digit return on invested capital.
So we have clear line of site on managing and expect to be able to return to shareholders.
That leads to my other question.
Which is how much net growth do you see in the fleet over the next several years and even beyond as you layer in these new ship orders? And particularly do you see much net growth in the key markets being Europe and North America? On the contracted ships that we have through 2018 the compounded annual growth rate in capacity from '14 to '18 is only 3%.
And that's with a calculation that was done with the currently announced ship exits.
So the numbers may actually be slightly lower than that as we continue to remove ships from our fleet.
I mean we're removing four from the fleet in 2015 and we do expect that we will remove more in '16 '17 and '18.
When you start balancing that between the markets and you just look at what is announced relative to the North America European and Asian markets within that 3% you're seeing a 1% to 2% increase in North America and Europe the more established market and like a 20% increase in Asia.
So overall as we make more announcements I think those numbers will continue to move probably lower in North America Europe and higher in Asia.
Thank you.
I guess my question is more surrounding this new chief procurement officer role and where you guys see the best opportunity to leverage or maybe use the entire business to reduce expenses and any insight you have to that.
And then if you have any added commentary on what brands you might prefer to add the new ships to that you announced yesterday where those best opportunities are.
Thanks.
You bet.
I'll start with the new ship comment.
The only color that I'll give that I can't remember whether we sent a press release or not is that some of those ships will be purpose built for China and so China is definitely a market that will be receiving some of those new ships.
But in terms of the specifics on the brands we're still working that through the brands and the yards and once we have concluded that we will be happy to share it with you.
And then the first part of your question concerning the procurement officer.
Julia Brown is well known in the procurement field.
She has had a highly successful track record at Kraft and now Mondelez and just a real star in procurement.
And given the scale of what we have we already have a line of sight on offsetting inflation as we've mentioned $70 million-$80 million this year and we see that going on for several years.
But it's in our best interest to have a top level procurement person overseeing that effort in collaboration with the brands to ensure that we not only deliver on it but have the opportunity to beat it.
I have two questions for you.
The first one is it looks to me as if you've excluded the negative transactional effects in your yield guidance but left in the positive effect in the cost guidance.
If that's so what is the effect? What would be the like-for-like comparison on costs? And secondly not being a currency expert can you give me another example of what a transactional negative effect on yield would be because it sounds to me like moving Aussie dollars into U.S.
dollars sounds like a translational effect.
I might be missing something there though.
Thanks.
Okay.
On the revenue and cost basically because of the movement in currency we did get a transactional positive impact in costs and we lowered our cost guidance in constant dollars.
So we did not increase our spending to offset that.
We just allowed the transactional cost benefit to flow through.
However on the revenue side we had a negative transactional impact of revenue but we increased our expectations for pricing which offset the transactional impact on revenue.
So in the end the revenue guidance in constant dollars stayed the same but on the cost it went down.
So hopefully that explains it's clear.
Now you asked about the Aussie dollar and you said that it was a translational impact.
It depends on the circumstance.
So the situation that I gave was Princess cruises which is a U.S.
dollar functional currency and when it's billed in Aussie dollars and it brings it back to U.S.
that's transactional.
Now that is different than P&amp;O cruises Australia which has an Aussie dollar functional currency and when you translate that back into U.S.
dollars that is translational.
So they have different basis and as a result it's two different types of transactions.
Okay.
So can you just talk about the way you're handling costs? The timing keeps on getting pushed back.
It seems like your guidance is consistently -- it's a little too conservative but then you say in your press release that the costs moved or you didn't use as much or what the issues are.
It seems to me like that cost variable seems to be moving around and keeps on being pushed forward.
And then the other thing is near-term demand has been pretty strong the last few quarters leading to some of the earnings beat.
Is that a change in the way the consumer is acting? I just wanted to understand that whether there's been [indiscernible] change and we're just seeing closer in bookings versus let's say five years ago or three years ago or ten years ago.
Yes.
I will answer the second part first.
In terms of near end bookings that has been a trend in the business in recent years that bookings were occurring closer and closer to time of sale.
So that has been a trend.
We are enjoining some improved booking curves now in terms of booking occurring further out both in Europe and in the U.S.
So that’s encouraging.
It's not back to where it was as David mentioned earlier on the call in the past.
But we are strengthening in the booking curves and that’s really encouraging.
So yes the consumers have changed behaviors to an extent but we also see through the recent results that we can further improve our booking curves and ultimately our pricing.
Go ahead David.
Yes.
And as far as costs are concerned Steve I mean this has been -- we have talked about this a lot over the years.
We have basically indicated that you should try to judge us on our cost for the full year as opposed to the quarter.
I mean our cost base is almost $8 billion in total.
So that’s $2 billion a quarter and we have to try to lay out exactly when we are going to spend every single dollar.
And it's very hard within a three-month period to get it perfect.
I mean things vary whether it's advertising expense or crew travel or some other hotel cost.
It's very hard to pin down every single dollar in $2 billion for each quarter.
But we do have plans for the year people know what they are.
They are flexible they do change.
But for the year we have a pretty solid guidance and we stick to those plans.
But we don’t force people to spend it specifically in a particular month or particular quarter.
We allow people to make decisions and change timing to optimize the business and that’s what you would want us to do over time.
So hopefully that’s helpful and it shifts a little bit of a seasonalization between the quarters.
Okay.
And then just one other quick what on this.
You say that currency was a headwind but better operational metrics closed the impact to only $0.05 headwind.
How much did the lower fuel price help this though? Because your fuel price per metric ton guidance for the full year now has decreased by $30.
I'm trying to get a balance of those two issues.
Okay.
I'll give you a couple of numbers so that you fully understand.
On a full-year basis versus the December guidance the currency impact was $0.28 and the net fuel positive was only $0.02.
So that is net $0.26 headwind that we were facing.
We improved our overall guidance by $0.21 and therefore the decline in the midpoint of $0.05.
And most of that $0.21 as I indicated before was the 1% increase in the revenue yield which is worth approximately $0.17.
So that's how the math works.
Your point about the fuel yes the fuel price did move.
But one of the things the fuel collars or the fuel derivatives offset a big chunk of the fuel price movement.
And the reason that that happened was while the brent fell our fuel price did not fall by as much as brent because when we did our December guidance the [crack] [ph] spread was 75% roughly speaking and at this point in time it's 81%.
So brent fell by far more 6% or so more than the price of the fuel that we purchase and so that's why it wasn't a perfect 50% offset there.
Congratulations on the excellent numbers.
I had one quick question on the transactional issue.
If we assume that the Princess Ship sales in Europe for a week long itinerary and prices at €1 000 per person and we have a Costa ship sailing that those same dates for €1 000.
Wouldn't we translate both of those at the same exchange rate? And David are you just breaking down the Princess piece into transactional and the Costa piece into translational? Okay.
All we are doing basically in terms of the exchange rate the rate of which would actually go back into U.S.
dollars is the rate on the day that it was paid.
So if theoretically both cruises were paid for on the same date you use the rate that’s the cruise was -- the booking was paid on.
And all we are doing is separating it between translational and transactional because a Costa would be translational because it's euro based and the Princess would be transactional because it's U.S.
dollar functional currency.
So it's same magnitude if it was paid the same day but it's two different types of impacts.
And the reason why there is transactional -- the reason why I said it's transactional wasn’t as important in the past is because it represents a much smaller percent of our business.
In terms of sourcing? Yes.
In terms of sourcing.
So the movements and currency didn't affect the transactional to any great extent and why we what always have had translational and that's why in the past constant dollars were fine but now with the big movement in currency we have to look at local constant currency.
As well as the...
Great.
This was very helpful.
I appreciate it.
And my second question relates more to the European-sourced passengers.
They seem to be booking much closer for European sailings because they're closer to the actual port of departure and there seems to be a mentality of I guess closer bookings in general.
After the unfortunate events have you seen any change or is it still too early? Are people holding off? Two comments.
One is in Europe we actually are seeing versus prior year and in previous few years that the booking curves are further out.
So we are seeing that both continental Europe and in the U.K.
The events that you reference in Tunisia that was just tragic incident and obviously we offer our sympathies to those directly affected and to the people of Tunisia.
So that was a terrible tragedy.
At the same time it represents 2% of our port calls so from that standpoint not overly significant.
But beyond that the impact in terms of psychology of travel whenever there are incidents like this it affects the psychology of travel.
And in difference source markets around the world it affects it more or less.
For example in North America some people are just nervous about going to all of Europe.
They cannot think about specific locations.
But at the same time we will just have to monitor and see what the long-term effects are but there has been a history of the market response to these things and historically it dissipates and we feel confidence in the guidance that we have put forward to you based on what we can read at this time.
Okay.
Arnold thank you so much for that color and David thank you for running me through the example.
Hi.
Good morning.
So most of my questions were answered.
I won't ask about translation versus transaction again.
I wanted to talk about the ad campaign.
So obviously with the Super Bowl you got so many impressions and you did kind of more of a consolidated multi-brand campaign I think for the first time.
How are you measuring the effectiveness of that? Does that change kind of your media strategy going forward? Just any thoughts on that would be helpful.
Yes.
We have an internal joke here that almost anything that happens we blame it on the Super Bowl ad.
So if the food is specially good in the cafeteria we say the Super Bowl ad did it.
But the reality is that following advertising's direct impact is always a difficult challenge.
What we can measure is the level of communication.
Web site hits impressions conversations around the brand.
That we can measure.
And so we know we had a lot more conversations generated about cruising.
There is no question about that.
We would hope that over time that translates to greater demand and ultimately bookings and higher yield.
So we have confidence that that combined with all the work that brands already do combined with the public relations that we have in general.
Things like the naming of the Britannia things like the Rose Parade as I mentioned with Princess in the opening comments.
All of those things create positive noise and consideration for cruising.
And we do try to measure of course and we do track.
And we try to measure uptake and bookings and so on to just make certain that we are getting the best result from the dollar and getting the return on investment.
It's a difficult thing to do because we are also doing product enhancements on board and we know those.
We can track that directly in terms of onboard revenue responses and in terms of guest satisfaction scores and what have you.
So we feel it accomplished what we set out to do.
We will be evaluating it through the course of the year to figure out what to do next but we have four ships three ships and a baby ship that we want to introduce to the market in next year in 2016.
That’s going to provide us with tremendous opportunity for PR events to build awareness and conversation and we are going to factor it into our planning as well.
Just a quick question on the onboard spend.
I was just wondering whether there's any way you could give us some color on disaggregating what I think you've commonly referred to as some changes in consumer behavior onboard ships and their spending? And what would be consumer recovery to get a flavor for where that boost in onboard spend is coming from please? Well we always feel that the better the economy the better off we are.
But the reality is our onboard spend increase is across the board.
So it's clearly not only tied to consumer response from economic improvements because it's everywhere.
And so we know that it has been in part due to the stimulation of the brands working together sharing ideas building on each other's idea sharing best practices.
For example the one example I gave the Wi-Fi at Sea is a comprehensive conversation about how do we enhance connectivity on board the ship for both our guests and our crew.
And coming out of that a number of things were done collectively and some individually by brands based on the collective sharing and discussion.
And ultimately it's led to a nice uptick in both guest satisfaction scores with connectivity and actually also in terms of onboard revenue.
So we would see far more of the benefit coming from focused actions and efforts on the part of our outstanding employees that have revenue management responsibilities onboard revenue management responsibilities and they are working together and sharing best practices.
Okay.
And just to follow up.
I mean obviously that's alluding to the fact that it's partly what you're doing to encourage changing consumer behavior.
I mean although the comps will get harder does it give you some confidence that the acceleration in onboard spend and not forsaken to suggest it stays at 7.7% going forward but it will stay better than perhaps GDP based thinking? Well obviously we want to drive it as much as we can.
And it's not so much change in consumer behavior as much as us listening to our guests and giving them more of what they want.
And if you give them what they want they will buy it.
So yes we feel that we are going to work it and continue to work it.
We think there is additional growth prospects but at this point in time we think the prudent thing to do is the guidance that we guidance that we gave.
Thanks guys for squeezing me in here.
My question is on the revenue management practices.
I guess first I'm just wondering how material that benefit is and then separately just timing is the benefit really limited to 2015 or is there an annualization effect that is going to continue to be a tailwind in next year as well as 2017? Well in terms of revenue management and dynamic pricing and all of that that is an ongoing effort.
It should yield results for some years to come.
We want to accelerate the learnings we have and accelerate the adoption of those across the brands.
It's very significant for us.
We are at roughly 80 million passenger cruise days a year so $1 a day across our fleet is $80 million and $10 a day is $800 million.
So revenue management is absolutely a prime area of focus.
It's the biggest driver we have and small tweaks add up to real dollars.
So whether it's the actual tools that we use the management systems that allow us to do more inquiry and change prices at smaller increments faster and so on and so forth or whether it's actual presentation and psychology and packaging on pricing all of that.
All of those are areas that we continue to mine.
We have got a clear line of sight from the study on about 21 different areas to explore.
We are doing that.
Luckily we are nine brands we can do a lot of that simultaneously.
Two in this brand to in that brand.
Get the learning and share it more rapidly.
We have a guru in place a coach that’s there to monitor process and encourage the brands and make certain that the communication takes place across the brands.
And it's going very well.
So we have an expectation that no pun intended they will yield results for several years to come.
Thank you.
All very much.
I really appreciate your interest and we were happy to deliver the quarter and we are looking forward to building on that momentum.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Abrupt Start …CEO of Carnival Corporation &amp; Plc.
Thank you all for joining us for our Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I’m joined by our Chairman Micky Arison; by David Bernstein our Chief Financial Officer and by Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations.
Before I begin please note that some of the remarks on this call will be forward-looking I must refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
Our team has continued to make strong progress so far this year as we march toward our goal of double-digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years.
In the first half of 2015 albeit from a low base our earnings are up five-fold year-over-year and we are well on our way to our second consecutive year of 25% annual earnings improvement.
This was another strong quarter for our company more than doubling the earnings from the prior year and significantly exceeding guidance by $0.12 per share of which only $0.02 resulted from further improvement and a combination of fuel and currency.
All of our North American brands had a strong performance led by the Carnival Brand which achieved a double-digit improvement in ticket revenue yield a testament to the strength of the Carnival cruise line product and the brand team's incredible execution in delivering a vacation experience that truly resonates with our guests.
The Fun Ship 2.0 features including Guy's Burger Joint The Punchliner Comedy Show and Seuss at Sea to name just a few examples are continuing to elevate the guest experience.
The series of investments in product innovation travel agent engagement and marketing have delivered and the brand continues to outperform.
The power of our diversified portfolio overcame the Continental European brand challenges for macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties.
During the quarter we made progress on multiple initiatives designed to further out journey to our consistent yield improvement by creating demand in excess of supply.
Our award-winning public relations effort is providing ongoing opportunity to address new cruisers by creating more conversations around cruising.
A good example of our ongoing public relations effort was demonstrated by Cunard creating nearly one billion media impressions around its 175th anniversary celebrations as the three Queens took center stage and what may have been the largest attendance at a single day maritime event anywhere in the world.
To witness and to feel the deep sense of pride and awe emanating from its estimated 1.3 million people packed on both banks of the Murphy stretching the 22 miles from Liverpool to the mouth of the River as the three Queens; Elizabeth Victoria and the iconic Queen Mary II did their own version of a river dance had a phenomenal display of engineering and maritime technical excellence and execution.
It was an incredibly uplifting and moving experience.
For several hours the million plus onlookers were totally captivated by our ship and Cunard and I’m always moved by the deep connection of our brands our history and what we do collectively without just our guests with the broader communities they represent around the world.
It was a job exceedingly well done by our Cunard and Carnival UK Shipboard and short-side team members whose execution was a marvel on to itself.
The event drove a tremendous amount of public interest as I had mentioned and followed on the heels of the incredible launch of Britannia christened by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the IInd an event itself which drew significant international attention and showcased cruising on a global scale.
While training demand through events such as these we continue to manage capacity growth in our core source markets in North America and Europe by redeploying capacity towards emerging markets attracting increasing numbers of new to cruise.
With additional capacity redeployed to China in 2016 we will offer an industry-leading approximately four million passenger cruise days dedicated to the burgeoning China cruise market that’s substantially more than our closest competitor.
Moreover in 2017 our Princess Brand wants the first ship to be purpose built for Chinese consumers that's an industry first.
While today China represents just 5% of our global guests its growth will continue to have significant ancillary benefits by constraining capacity in our core markets in both North America and Europe.
So growth prospects in China contribute to enhance relative scarcity elsewhere in which we market the remaining 95% of our capacity.
Over time we are confident that China will become among the largest source markets for cruise given the increasingly favorable demographic trend and high satisfaction scores we are commanding.
Chinese outbound travel is expected to double by 2020 and we are certainly well positioned to capitalize on the explosive pent-up demand for international travel following the recent easing of travel restrictions coupled with the booming upper middle class.
Beyond the growth opportunity in China we're accessing a new segment of the global market with the launch of our test brand in the Carnival Corporation of family [indiscernible].
The purpose is to do good and in doing so we do expect the assets to perform financially as well.
We believe U.S.
UK Australia and Northern Europe over index with travelers in this segment.
Fathom will offer travelers authentic meaningful experiences to target destinations to work alongside locals for transformational community impact.
At the same time Fathom creates a holistic sustained impact through a market-driven business model.
Now this is a new travel category for us.
Importantly from a pure business perspective Fathom generates a totally different conversation around cruising stimulating greater demand for cruising in general.
To date Fathom has already garnered over 3.5 billion media impressions and growing.
Beginning in April 2016 Fathom will embark on seven day voyages from the Port of Miami to its first impact destination Puerto Plata in the Dominican Republic.
This is also where our new $85 million Amber Cove port development is set to open this October and ready to receive several of our other world’s leading cruise-line brands.
Fathom is headed by our new global impact leader Tara Russell a proven social entrepreneur with a track record of developing self sustaining impact entities.
Now you can view the launch and find out more about and about Tara and about Fathom at Fathom.org.
Including Tara talent development continues to be an important focus and we have effected change by complementing a solid core with additional new talent further strengthening our management team.
In addition to seven new brand presidents we’ve added talent in the areas of maritime strategy revenue management communications procurement and innovation.
Our team is totally engaged in communicating collaborating and cooperating to capture the full benefit of the latent opportunity inherent in our industry-leading scale both in driving revenues and in containing costs.
We continue to make progress on our roadmap to advance revenue science and systems including investing in dynamic pricing expert brand teams to improve our decision making capability establishing price boundaries for relative price position across our portfolio and piloting regional price coordination in Alaska and Australia for example through increased booking visibility across the brands and through joint decision making.
Now we’ve also made progress in our initiative to drive onboard revenue as evidenced by the 6% onboard revenue growth and that's in constant dollars achieved this quarter the fourth consecutive quarter of mid-single digit growth in onboard revenue.
The outsized growth in casino bar and communication realized this quarter was again partly driven by best practice sharing.
This is set to rollout of our casino engagement program beverage packages and additional bandwidth are just a handful of examples of initiatives that drove our onboard revenue strength in the past few quarters and will continue to pay dividends over time.
Now all of these initiatives are building block for capturing multiyear yield growth needed to deliver double-digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years.
We remain focused on our initiatives to contain costs by leveraging our scale and we remain on track for savings of $70 million to $80 million in 2015 and continuing over multiyear period and we continue to look for opportunities to invest and generate return including our stepped up marketing investment of second half of this year to build a strong base of business heading into 2016.
Progress continued on our fleet enhancement program as we finalized the contract with Meyer to build four state-of-the-art ships designed to provide an exceptional vacation experience tailored to our guest's preferences.
This was part of our largest strategic partnership announced in March with Meyer in both Germany and Finland and with Fincantieri area in Italy to build nine ships over four year period from 2019 to 2022 and keeping with our measured capacity growth strategy.
These next generation ships will be the most efficient ever build with a total guest capacity of 6 600 through an innovative design pairing incredible cabins with even more innovative use of the ship public spaces.
Adding price per berth in line with our existing order book these ships will significantly enhance the return profile of our fleet.
Moreover these next generation ships will pioneer a new era in the use of sustainable fuels through our green cruising designs representing the first cruise ships to be powered FC by LNG.
This was yet another strong quarter once again exceeding guidance.
Now while we remain confidence in delivering 25% earnings growth again this year we caution you given ongoing macroeconomic and geopolitical risk not again ahead of expectations for the year simply based on our consistency and exceeding our quarterly guidance.
We do however remain on a clear path to achieving double-digit return on investment capital.
We're focused on measured capacity growth by delivering innovative and significantly more efficient ships while at the same time removing from service less efficient capacity.\ We're committed to driving relative scarcity by creating even more demand for our brands that outpace this capacity.
We remain focused on driving yield growth in the low to mid single digit range through higher ticket and onboard revenues while containing cost increases through our initiatives to leverage our scale and we look forward to enhancing total shareholder returns including further opportunity to return capital to shareholders as we drive for our double digit return on invested capital and our ready strong cash flow continues to build.
I’d now like to turn it over to David.
David? Thank you Arnold.
Before I begin please note all of my references to revenue and cost metrics will be in constant dollars unless otherwise stated.
I’ll start today with a summary of our guidance topping second quarter results.
Then I’ll provide some insight into our current book position and finish up with some color on our 2015 June guidance.
Our a non-GAAP EPS for the second quarter was $0.25.
I’m excited to report that this was $0.12 above the midpoint of our March guidance.
The improvement was driven by three things.
First $0.06 from net revenue yields mainly due to better than guided onboard and other yields.
Second $0.03 essentially from lower operating cost due to the timing of expenses between the quarters and third $0.02 from the impact of fuel price and currencies.
Now let’s turn to our second quarter operating results first in the prior year.
Our capacity increased 2%.
The North American brands were essentially flat while the European Australia and Asia brands also known as our EAA Brands were up over 6%.
Our total net revenue yields in the second quarter were up over 4%.
Breaking apart the two components of net revenue yields; net ticket yields were up 3.5%.
Both sides of the Atlantic were up but the improvement was driven by larger increases at our North American brands particularly Carnival Cruise Lines as Arnold indicated.
If you remove the unfavorable transactional currency impact the net ticket yields were up almost 5% of what we referred to as constant currency.
The increase in net ticket yield was across the Board with improvements in Caribbean Med and North European itineraries.
As Arnold indicated onboard and other yields increased almost 6% again both sides of the Atlantic were up but the improvement was also driven by the larger increases at our North American brands.
Net cruise cost per ALBD excluding fuel was up about 6%.
This was driven by the previously discussed increase in dry-dock days for the year which disproportionally impacted the second quarter.
During the second quarter we did benefit from the net impact of fuel and currency by $0.10.
In summary second quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.16 higher than the prior year driven by improved net revenue yields worth $0.20 and the favorable net impact of fuel and currency worth $0.10.
both of which were partially offset by higher net cruise cost excluding fuel costing $0.15.
During the second quarter we had a $7 million restructuring expense in our U.S.
gap results but excluded from our non-GAAP result as you’ll see in the reconciliation table in our earnings release.
For the full year 2015 we anticipate a total of $27 million of restructuring expenses as we further leverage our scale which will benefit us in 2016 and beyond.
Let’s turn to booking trends.
Bookings for the next three quarters taken during the last 13 weeks have been strong.
Volumes are well ahead by the slightly lower prices driven by unfavorable transactional currency impacts.
At this point in time cumulative fleet wise bookings for the next three quarters are well ahead at slightly lower prices but again driven by the unfavorable transactional currency impact.
Our increased pace of booking puts us in a strong position as we finish our 2015 and begin 2016.
Drilling down into the cumulative booking position; first for our North American brand.
Caribbean itineraries are significantly ahead on occupancy at slightly lower prices which bodes well for pricing on future bookings and pricing in the last six weeks has been higher.
Alaskan itineraries are nicely ahead on both price and occupancy.
While other North American brand deployments combined which includes the seasonal European programs are nicely ahead on occupancy but at lower prices which are being unfavorably impacted by transactional currencies.
For our EAA brands all itineraries combined are nicely ahead on price with occupancies that are in line with the prior year.
The solid booking trends are consistent with our guidance.
Now looking at our full year 2015 guidance we expect net revenue yields to be up 2% to 3% versus the prior year which is slightly better than our March guidance.
Net revenue yields on a constant currency basis after moving the transactional currency impacts are expected to be up 3% to 4% versus the prior year.
This is consistent with our March guidance.
The additional strength we've seen in Caribbean and Alaskan ticket yield as well as onboard yields has been offset by geopolitical risk in the Med and macroeconomic uncertainties in Continental Europe.
Now turning to cost.
For the full year 2015 net cruise costs without fuel for ALBD are now expected to be up 2.5% to 3.5%.
This is a slight increase from our March guidance driven by decision to increase spending on advertising and certain strategic projects in the back half of 2015 both of which should benefit us in 2016 and beyond.
For 2015 we're forecasting to benefit from the net impact of fuel and currency by $0.16.
Taking all these factors into consideration our non-GAAP EPS guidance for the full year 2015 is now $2.35 to $2.50 versus a $1.93 for 2014.
On a final note I wanted to share with you our current rules of the thumb about the impact that currency and fuel prices can have on our results.
To start with a 10% change in all of the relevant currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar would impact our P&amp;L by approximately $0.25 to the full year and $0.18 for the remainder of 2015.
This includes both translational and transactional currency impact.
The fuel price changes a 10% change in the current price represents a $0.10 impact for the remainder of 2015.
The third rule of thumb relates to a fuel derivative portfolio.
A 10% change in brand would result in a $0.04 change in the realized losses on fuel derivatives for the remainder of 2015.
And now operator we're ready to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Robin Farley your line is open.
You may proceed with your question.
Great thanks.
Two questions.
One is I wondered if you could give a little bit of color around the cost of brand.
You mentioned Continental Europe and the economic issues there.
So I -- maybe cost won’t be seeing positive yields this year I wondered if you could put color on that? And then the other question I had is you've talked about increasing advertising expense and I guess I was curious if your volumes sound like it's up nicely and so if the issue is on the currency side it seems like advertising is something that would -- you would use to drive volume but if your volumes are up already why would advertising be the solution to the kind of the FX related pricing? Thanks.
Good morning Robin and good to hear your voice.
First of all I will talk about the advertising.
We’re always looking for opportunities to invest to create additional demand because ultimately the key for us of course is relative scarcity creating demand in all the markets around the world excess of supply and excess of capacity.
And so when we recognize some opportunities to drive additional demand the brand teams or all brands come up with innovative concepts that we think can generate more conversation around cruising and attract new to cruise then we're willing to invest in it.
And so that's the basis [indiscernible] an ongoing investment to continuously generate additional demand.
With regards to Costa I'll let David make a few comments and then I'll weigh in.
Sure.
As we had said before in the notes there is a lot of macroeconomic difficulties in Europe.
The economy seems to be bouncing along at the bottom.
Our Costa brand is doing very well but as a result of the geopolitical risk and other things they have had some challenges on the yield side this year.
And so as a result overall our EAA brands as I said in my notes are up.
They're all doing very well but the Costa does face its challenge.
Okay great.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Okay thank you Robin.
Our next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I've two questions.
The first one is we've been hearing from travel agents that all the cruise lines in the Caribbean are exercising discipline regarding near-term discounting as one of your peers made a very clear splash about that.
Just wondering what your stance is on that? And then also I just wanted to confirm that the increase in advertising that you talked about is not inclusive of any promotional spending? Okay.
So concerning the situation and pricing obviously we all independently make our pricing decisions.
We said over two years ago almost that we were looking at changing the psychology of pricing concerning our brands in the Caribbean in terms of waiting to the end -- I guess waiting to the end and seeking discounts.
And so we trialed a number of things and rest of little occupancy at times for that and generated some success with that and we continue to try to put pricing integrity in and discipline in for our brands independently of what anyone else does.
So for us we have seen some positive trends there and we will continue on that course.
When you asked the question about advertising and promotion I think obviously we're looking at promotional activity as well.
When you say promotion I don’t know if you're referring specifically to travel agent promotion effort or if you so could you clarify your question for me.
Yes I think the concern that we've heard from some investors this morning is it gets to the more of a discounting part of it.
So just your advertising is what you maybe talked about in the last question and just … No it's absolutely not discounting ticket pricing or anything of that -- not that kind of investment.
This is to create demand and awareness and conversation around cruise.
Thank you.
Great.
David can you help bridge something you beat the quarter by $0.12 on a current dollar basis which flows through your earnings.
Your net yields were improved by 1.5 at the mid-point.
Your net cruise cost ex-fuel improved by 1.5 [ph] at the mid-point.
Your fuel price per metric ton improved since your last guidance.
You said your fuel hedges benefit by your FX and fuel benefit by $0.16 for the full year.
When I add that all up that comes out to a lot more than at the mid-point $0.02 increase to your full year earnings So how much is that advertising -- increased advertising spend and can you just help bridge your earnings guidance versus what looks like to be pass-through of a lot more than that? Sure.
No problem.
When you look at fuel and currency for the full year it's actually pretty flat versus our March guidance.
So what’s coming through is we do have a little bit increase in the revenue yield as well as the cost side.
And trying to understand what’s going on versus the second quarter yes we did beat by $0.12 but remember $0.03 of that was simply timing of expenses between the quarters.
So on a full year basis it's really $0.09 and we also had about a $0.05 increase in overall costs flowing through which was the mainly advertising but as I indicated some strategic projects that we decided to invest in and so net there was a $0.04 $0.05 of improvement which gave us the confidence to increase the bottom end of the range by a nickel.
Okay Not really because net revenues I can take this offline but if you go line by line you get more than so you said net $0.04 to $0.05 improvement but you’re increasing at the midpoint your full year by $0.02.
Okay.
I think one of the things that you’re coding the constant dollar numbers and Beth can take it offline with you but when you… No I’m actually coating the current dollar numbers.
No the current dollar but that’s all impacted by currency.
So if you go to… No I know but that would be in your earnings number right? Correct but if you go at a constant currency okay basically our guidance per revenue yields in constant currency did not change.
We also just increased the cost a little bit and still overall what you’re seeing happening as I said to the full year currency and fuel basically netted out.
So we did see a bit of an improvement in the bottom end of our guidance range.
So hopefully does that clarify it for you? Yeah it does.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning… Harry you're breaking up.
Harry now you’re still.
Hang on one second while I'll try to fix the line all right.
Thank you.
We can take another question while Harry is trying to…No Harry its little bit -- we'll try to hear your question; give it a shot if we can hear we'll try to answer it.
Go ahead.
Okay.
So my question is related to 2016 when you think that 2016 bookings were looking and explain to increased less the annual marketing expenses in 2015? The question is related to 2106 bookings picture is that how is that looking? Is that driving the advertising investment is that correct Harry? That's correct.
Let me answer the second part first.
Again we’re focused overall on delivering double-digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years.
And to do that we have to have sustained revenue growth in terms of ticket and onboard revenues.
And to do that we know we have to continue to create relative scarcity with demand and excess of supply.
So our decisions are not strictly for any reaction or anything to a period.
They are ongoing considered investment to create over time what we need to create.
And so overall we’re looking at 3.7% capacity increase for 2016 and for the first quarter we're ahead on occupancy which bodes well for pricing on the remainder of the year.
And we're only in June.
So we have very little visibility into next year outside of the first quarter but we’re cautiously optimistic about 2015.
Thank you.
And I'll try to sneak one other question if you can hear me and it relates to churn.
With the incremental in the industry I was curious about giving for the… Okay.
I didn't get it all but with complex you're asking about with the capacity going into China what give us confidence that we can continue to show positive results there.
If that’s the question the reality in China is we already have the relative scarcity I’ve been talking about in terms of trying to create additional relative scarcity in the more developed markets and already has there.
The biggest outbound tourist industry in the world and is growing at a rapid rate in fact is expected to double by 2020 in terms of outbound tourism.
And so given that we actually have relatively scarcity and we’ve seen continued strong yield performance with the capacity additions we’ve put in to-date and we expect to see it going forward.
Okay.
I get back.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Wieczynski from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
David I don't know if you've said this now but I know you said $0.06 in terms of the bead in the second quarter was based off better revenue yields did you break that down in terms of how much was ticket versus onboard? I didn’t but I did say it was essentially driven by onboard and other yields.
Okay.
And then could you guys Arnold could you may be have us and give us an idea of where you guys are at this point in terms of your book-to-load position for the third quarter and the fourth quarter versus historically and maybe versus last year as well.
The reality is we're ahead on booking and so we've less inventory to fill for the balance of the year and that gives us added confidence that we will deliver on the guidance and so bookings are strong at this point and in terms of yields and while we’re in tracking with the guidance of 3% to 4%.
But is it can I follow-up on that is it significantly better than where you’ve historically been? Well I would say over the last couple of years it is well ahead and we're feeling very good about our book position.
Okay.
And then one more quick question the new ships that you guys put on order that will be powered by the LNG can you give us an idea of how much more fuel efficient those ships will be versus the ship that was build two three four years ago.
First of all those ships obviously will be -- to be both LNG powered as well as conventional fuel powered but we anticipate over time that LNG is going to be a fuel of choice and based on that we're preparing for the future.
But having said that overall those ships versus the existing are going to be dramatically more efficient and in fact overall not just fuel based but overall we’re talking as much as north of 40% more efficient.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Can you guys comment I know you’ve talked in the past on air and travel transportation initiatives and the savings that you’ve made in that space and it looks like you have had those expenses decline in the last couple quarters.
So can you talk about maybe any strides you've made there and what we should expect in that going forward? We continue through all the initiative to space the ability to offset inflation which we peg about $70 million to $80 million a year.
We're definitely on track through the initiatives to achieve that this year.
We have fair line of sight for achieving that in number of years to come.
We’ve added some skill set in brining Julia Brown in who is our Chief Procurement Officer for the Corporation.
She is working already very closely with the brands.
Have lots of anecdotes that I can share a little one with you.
We had all the mattresses we buy a lot of mattresses a year.
And we put all the mattresses in one place for all the brands and then everybody sell everybody else's mattress look at quality and what not and we’re going to see probably a 20% to 25% improvement and cost improvement in that.
While increasing overall the quality standard for that mattress and then we have the scores of those examples and there is plenty of opportunities for us to do that and so we’re on that path and see a clear line of sight on the $70 million to $80 million for several years to come.
Okay.
And then I am curious -- go ahead.
No no go ahead.
I am curious on a separate topic.
I think one of your peers had commented on onboard spend for European consumers and it sounds like onboard has been really strong for you guys but I’m curious if there has been a bifurcation across consumers geographically that you’ve seen and if you have any color on that? I'll make a comment first and then overall again for us a lot of it is best practice sharing taking innovation in each of the brands and sharing that across the rest of the brands.
So we’ve seen very strong on Board revenue trends in our businesses as evidenced by the results and continue to expect to see that David.
Yes as I said in my notes the on board and other yields if the increase was driven much more so by the North American brands than our EAA brands.
So there is some we are seeing some better improvements in North America and over in Europe and I’m assuming this macroeconomic overall.
Okay thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
To circle back to China again Arnold you described the penetration opportunity there and the demand opportunity.
In the near term though we’ve heard a little bit from some industry sources that there has been a little bit of pricing activity going on and if you could refresh for us the ships are largely sold on a contract basis and then the end resellers keeps it different so that they’re able to sell it for.
So any comment that you can talk about any recourse you would have if that is ongoing in anyway in the near term and if it is is it MERS related predominantly.
So any color there and then David housekeeping item the restructuring just if you could just refresh how much you talked about there for the full year and is that included or excluded from your annual EPS guidance thank you.
Okay sure.
So first of all I guess MERS we’re watching that situation very closely but frankly we have not seen a significant impact so far.
People obviously always would pay attention to health issues but the reality is that MERS is very hard to contract and hopefully people will get educated on the very low probability of contracting MERS.
We have -- rare it is from China that touch Korea and we have modified some itineraries at the request of our shift charters but one of the strategic advantages that we have as an industry versus land based destination is our ability to mitigate when appropriate and adjust itineraries to maintain guest confidence satisfaction as opposed to being locked in to surroundings no matter what the circumstances are.
Technically we do have a measure of protection by having charters but we don’t expect the situation to become a material issue for us or our distribution parts.
And overall we continue to see strength in China in the yields and our charters or all the feedback we are getting is they are pleased now financially at this point.
And the restructuring charges Tim it was $27 million restructuring expenses that we expected for the full year and in this second quarter we have excluded the restructuring expenses from our non-GAAP results and remember we give guidance on a non-GAAP basis.
So it’s not included in the overall 235 to 250 guidance we gave.
Okay.
That’s what we thought thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just a couple of questions for you Arnold you mentioned a couple of times you want to achieve double-digit return on invested capital.
I’m not sure that you gave a specific timeframe when you wanted to achieve that also can you just discuss you also mentioned the couple of times that you want to have demand greater than supply and I certainly understand that what is the basis for laying out so many ships for such an extended period going out into the 2020 period or so.
I’m just trying to figure out what the drivers are that gives you the confidence that that would happen and then just one final thing on China I know people are talking a lot about it.
Could you give us an update on the two memorandum of understanding you had with your Chinese partners any progress coming to agreement on port development or ship building with the Chinese partners.
Thank you.
Very good.
I’ll start from the bottom up.
On the memorandum of understanding Steve you know Alan Buckelew our Chief Operations Officer for the Corporation resides now in Shanghai in China and we’ve made very meaningful progress with both CSFC and the China Merchant Group and hopefully we’ll have something more specific to say Chinese specific joint ventures in the coming months here we are very excited about the progress we are making in that particular arena and the continued support overall from the Chinese government to the cruise industry.
So we’re very very positive on that front and hopefully will have more to tell you.
Concerning to ship order as we are articulated at the time the overall the large order nine ship order between Fincantieri and Meyer that was done for number of reasons.
Number one is prototypes that we want to get plenty of lead time for those yards to engage the subcontractors that need to be engaged and for those subcontractors to know that both entities Meyer and Fincantieri would be building ships and it wasn’t a single order that they were competing for.
And so hopefully that will lead to efficiency and ultimately lower cost of acquisition for us.
From a practical matter we have to plan way ahead to secure the slots and to give the yards plenty of time to work with us to perfect and effective designs.
And so that is the reason for that the reason to build the ships in the first place is that by the time the ships come in we should have achieved our double-digit return on invested capital that is certainly our plan and our focus and what we have clarified right now three to four years is what we’re saying we say at a year ago three to five years and so that is three to four years we should be delivering on double-digit return on invested capital.
And then those ships individually each return well above the baseline double-digit return on invested capital 10% well above that and so they allow us to enhance and sustain the double-digit performance out into the future.
Hope that answered your questions.
Yes thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Milota with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Had the question on the advertising spend I was hoping to get some color on what you’ve seen from a first time cruise based on what you spend in kind of the first half of the year kind of late last year and is that really the reason for taking up spend now.
I guess secondly what are you seeing from a competitive perspective as it relates to marketing and advertising as well is that an additional reason to spend now? First of all for us our business is pretty straightforward and so we consider our competition to be land based vacation.
We have very differentiated product offerings versus the other cruise companies.
We do all competes on new to cruise because often the new to cruise there is no concept what cruise would best with them and that is what we come on travel professional partners especially as well as our own people to make certain we get the right people on the right ships but real competition cruise is land based and so we focus on that.
So what we need to do as an industry as well as a company is create considerable interest improving just getting the conversation how people think about cruising and we’ve done at a number of ways whether it was the Super Bowl initiative we had.
We did it most recently with the launch of Fathom we did it with what I have references in terms of celebration of Cunard’s 175 Princess’s 50 anniversary and all of those things are interesting stories and create opportunities for us to really talk about cruising and get it in the conversation.
And that is so how we look at it we don’t look at it as advertising to how to advertise we want the competition advertising promote.
One of every two people cruise in the world cruise with us and anything that generates interest in cruising automatically helps us and frankly it helps the other companies as well.
So that is the focus of it and we think we’re seeing some success there are some variables in any given year in any given market at any given time.
But clearly our results have been strong and we don’t doubt for a second that is in part because we have had some success through the individual brands and then collectively been generating more interest in cruising.
Let’s keep in mind that as a company we spend we have said before over $600 million a year in advertising expense and all we are talking about is a few percent change here as the year progresses we continue to tweak things and make adjustments to be as optimal as we can be throughout the year.
So it’s just really change in a big number.
And frankly mark is more interested in the specific idea in the execution how it is going to generate additional interest than we are in the dollars.
We don’t have rule of the thumb of how we need to spend different amount of dollars and anything like that we will look at individual initiatives projects and things that would show me how we’re generate number of impressions generate conversations with the specific execution.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
You can ask follow-up.
I was just wondering from based on what you spend I mean have you seen a meaningful increase in the percent of first time cruisers if you look at specific basis? You know I would say overall first time cruisers are up dramatically now there is a number of things that contribute to that beyond this year I guess last year we were 3.4 million first time cruisers whereas the year prior we were like something like 2.7 or 2.8 or something.
But there are number of things that drive that number one we have got lot of first time cruisers elsewhere in China so that is part of it another part of it is in the Caribbean there was so much capacity last year in the Caribbean.
The only way to fill those ships with other lots of new first time cruisers and so that drove first time cruise and added yield that we were happy with but it drove additional base load of first time cruisers and then of course all the initiatives we had to create demand and others and industry have we think all of that collectively contribute to what you saw in terms of the increase in first time cruisers last year versus previous year.
Okay.
Very good thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just a question on the ship orders that you’ve announced recently I guess the new ships are going to have the capacity as 6 600 guests.
I know you alluded to in the press release about how you will have more efficient use of the ship spaces in order to accommodate the guests.
I was hoping you could maybe elaborate on that and also within the design of the cabins are you going to doing a single cabins or anything kind of outside of the box what you have done historically.
\First of all the current space per guest in terms of space per guest it is similar to the ships we have on order now for those ships.
So really was innovative design and Micky Arison and then Michael Thamm who runs our Costa group were very ingenious in the original conceptualization for these ships and then the new build teams in house and at the yards we are able to follow during execution of that.
So we actually feel an incredible guest experience great cabins absolutely great cabins and really phenomenal public space and are able on that platform to have as I mentioned space per guests comparable to the ships we currently have on order.
So it really is the efficient interior design and then very creative design.
Just to be clear the 6600 is total passenger capacity based on two passenger per cabin is just north of 5000 per ship or passengers.
Okay thanks.
And some of the things absolutely the ships are being finished some of the conceptualizations there are some single cabin concept.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of [Edward Stanford with Ross] [ph].
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Just intrigued by your new Fathom brand could you take us through why you decided to do this how big is the potential market do you see it is an interesting growth area was it a requirement with the Dominican Republic as part of your investment in that country perhaps you could elaborate on that please.
So first of all the reason behind Fathom Fathom the purpose is to do good the unique aspect of it is holistic market driven approach to doing this so have to be a win win win.
So we have to do financially well with it that gives us freedom to do it and make it sustainable.
So the shareholders win.
It has to resonate with the guests the people have to want to travel on it and if they don’t they won’t.
So it makes it a win for them and then obviously the ultimate reason the starting point is to do good and so we have the real genuine impact with it otherwise was the point.
So the concept of win win win while it does resonate in index with what we usually call Millennial it appeals to a broad spectrum of people who basically want to grow themselves so it is not just a matter of going someplace to do some good help out is an enrichment and emerging experience for the travelers themselves and very unique and different approach and one that brings scale that previously just doesn’t exist and never existed.
So it is new.
So we picked up -- and Puerto Plata recently in the Dominican Republic we checked out a number of different countries to start and we landed there primarily because there are entities on the ground there that have demonstrated long-term history of genuine impact in the areas of economic impact as well as environmental and educational impact.
So there are Dominican organizations on the ground that are currently delivering impact so the guest get to work alongside those proven Dominican impact providers and scale up the impact they can have.
So we will end up with thousands of volunteer days a week spread across the region in a holistic fashion not doing any one thing but doing a combination of things that collectively can transform a community over time and ideal go with -- few years and no long we need it and we will move on somewhere else.
How big it is ultimately what the advertisers we have done a lot of research we paired our team with the McKenzie Group and ton of announcements over the last couple of years leading us to where we are.
But obviously all have to be proven out we have every confidence we will be successful with the initial foray and then if it is successful it is scalable and replicable and as long as they are on the ground entities that are already delivering real impact that we can help scale up what they are doing and accelerate that impact it has.
That is the concept we feel big appetite for it.
We it is financial model for us it will have to financially perform that gives to continue with it and we are very optimistic but it has to be proved.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stuart Gordon with Berenberg.
Please go ahead.
Yes good afternoon gentlemen couple of questions please.
I think previous calls you have said on both spend assumptions within guidance around about 2% mark I was just wanting to check that that was still the case looking forward I am assuming so given the comments you have made already and the second one is just whether you have seen any impact in China from the thinking that happened a couple of weeks ago.
I appreciate it obviously it is river cruising it was local operator but clearly could impact first time cruisers in that market and what you will be doing to so to educate them on the differences between sort of the river cruisers and your ocean cruisers thanks very much.
Thank you.
I think we are in the early stage of growth in China that there are a lot of things that happened that it was a more mature market you might see some kind of impact or response from.
But again the relative scarcity exist there today and so that buffered a lot of things and so frankly no we have not seen any impact from the incident that occurred.
And as more and more people cruise obviously we're continually educating our distribution partners there and then as well as the general public about cruising and the differences but we have not seen any effect there.
I'll let David answer the first part of your question.
So we did assume a 2% in the back half of this year.
Keep in mind that as you begin to analyze that that the back half of last year and onboard and other was up mid single digits and it was significantly better than the first half of 2014.
So we do have more challenging comps in the back half so take that into account as you analyze the numbers.
Yeah absolutely.
And just on the onboard it sounds from the comments that you may just -- seeing pretty pick up from sort of your not just the consumer confidence coming back but also from your sort of your self help things that you’re doing onboard is that something that is now fleet wide or is it still rolling out? There are still a number of things that we're rolling out.
So we expect -- continue to see benefits in the future from some of the initiatives in communications casino and beverage.
A great example there was a press release Idida put out yesterday on their internet service and how they had headed on a couple of shifts and they were expanding it to the rest of that fleet.
So we do expect to see additional onboard revenue from those initiatives.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Rollo with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
First question is just on the yield growth guidance in the third quarter.
I’m just wondering given the momentum you're seeing and the sort of a positive outlook statement.
I’m wondering why that yield growth is weakening year-over-year in Q3 than Q2? Are you just being conservative or is there more of that European geopolitical sort of issue in the mix in the quarter? And then other question just on costs as we look into next year you talked before about quite a lot of this year’s dry dock reversing and it seems like marketing costs are somewhat elevated would you expect cost growth to continue in the low single digits even with your savings or should we expect a sort of this year’s cost step up? Thank you.
I guess I’ll start with on a constant dollar basis the guidance for the third quarter is the same as the guidance we gave for the second quarter.
Yeah in terms of what you actually delivered in the second quarter.
So are you saying it's -- well somewhat you’re saying is sounds like you're just being quite conservative there? Keep in mind I had already indicated that we included in that guidance was only a 2% increase in onboard and other and that compares to the 6% in the second quarter.
And as far as the ticket side as always we give you our best guess as to what we believe the net ticket yield will be and we included that in the guidance as well.
So overall we got some pretty good increases in the third quarter on a constant currency basis.
We're expecting it to be like 3% to 4% included in the third quarter.
So we’re very pleased with those yields and hopefully we can do better.
But then also the base comparison for the third quarter is a little more challenging than the second.
And on the cost side I think we had indicated back in December there was a big increase in dry dock this year.
It was driving two of the three percentage point increase in cost.
We did expect to see dry dock days decline in 2016 and so about half of that increase would go away.
So that will be a benefit for 2016.
It’s a little early to give guidance on cost for 2016 overall.
We are hopefully as Arnold indicated with all of the leveraging our scale to perhaps be able to offset inflation but we still have got to go through the whole planning process and make some decisions on investments and we'll do that over the next couple of months.
As to double digit return on invested capital and in the next three to four years and the way we’re going to do that ultimately is through yield and so to the extent we need to invest to do that we will but we don’t see that need to invest or those opportunities to invest to think is well out of range or anything on cost going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for fitting me in here.
Just wanted to make sure I understand what’s changed over the last three months or not changed I guess in terms of the guidance.
I guess more specifically help me understand why the constant currency guidance is unchanged despite the meaningful beat in the second quarter? Is any of that timing related? I know the costs are timing related but the yield is timing related it sounds like there is a healthy dose of conservatism.
And I guess if the entirety of it is just weaker Europe in Med can you maybe drill down and help us understand which itineraries in particular are trending what would almost need to be meaningfully beneath expectations for the back half of the year? I’ll start with a general comment.
The general comment is that while results are tempered by Europe for 2015 we are going to see growth in yield in Europe and both in the brands and in the regions.\ And also we continue to see strong booking patterns there where the booking curve is being pushed further out and that bodes well because you have less inventory to sell and then that’s also obviously good for yields.
So despite a lot of the challenges and cost in particular have been facing challenges since 2008 with macroeconomic Malaise and other issues and just a trading environment.
But despite that not only Costa but the entire European team Carnival U.K.
Idida as well have been doing a great job in managing the brand over this period.
So I'll let David comment on some of the specifics but overall things are positive.
Yeah we’re very positive on the year.
Some of these numbers as I had talked we said we would beat the second quarter by $0.06.
So overall when you put together our guidance for the year keep in mind that to move our yield guidance takes $0.17 one percentage point is $130 million or $0.17.
So as we look at all the numbers the $0.06 movement causes a few decimal point movement in the mid -- in the guidance but it doesn’t necessarily change the whole overall range for the year.
So we’re trying to just give you ranges and averages but we're flowing through the benefit as I had indicated before of the second quarter and it was partially offset by cost and we still increased the midpoint and the bottom end of the range.
Okay.
And then just maybe longer term and I understand it’s always a difficult challenge to properly allocate capacity on a global basis but as we think about the outperformance of the Caribbean this year versus Europe and the Med it was the reverse last year and it was also the reverse capacity situation.
So I guess the question is how do we know that the I don't know that the underperformance of Europe is a function of macro rather than just may be getting too much capacity versus what we saw last year? And I guess longer term how do we think about the right amount of capacity growth in Europe versus the Caribbean? So first of all I think capacity in Europe is going to be about 6% but that's nowhere near with the capacity increase was in the Caribbean last year was up more than double digit was dramatic increase in capacity in the Caribbean last year.
And so that’s two very different scenarios and when you talk about Europe you’ve got the Mediterranean and Northern Europe whereas in Caribbean you got the Caribbean as Eastern and Western but it's still just Caribbean.
So there are two very different situations.
So the issues in Continental Europe we don’t believe our capacity driven there are different issues the reality is that the macroeconomic situation there and then the geopolitical issues that have popped up have certainly tempered the results there.
still strong but it tempered the results.
And coming into next year well we're going to be down in capacity ourselves in the Caribbean a couple of points.
Overall the industry will be up in the Caribbean actually but nowhere near where it was last year in terms of increase and obviously we have a much stronger base of guests now to fill those ships than we did a year ago when that we had a huge capacity influx for the Caribbean and we will see what happens in Europe but probably a little bit of easing of capacity.
I think the big issue there is just letting the time go by and continue to create demand in Europe and manage through some of these geopolitical tensions and get through and there are always going to be issues somewhere in the world that's the beauty of our business.
We can move our capacity and we do have a broad portfolio especially for us as a company to buffer a lot of these things.
But I don’t want to understate the performance of Europe given the dynamics but the dynamics are not comparable to what they were in the Caribbean last year.
If you think about the longer term I think we talked about this either on the last call or December I can’t remember our capacity growth on a compounded annual basis from 14 to 18 is only 2.9%.
And if you take into account all the announcements we've made to date and there will be more announcements of ships going to China the compounded annual growth rate for that four-year periods for North America would be 1% and Europe would be 2%.
And so the growth rate as I think Arnold has indicated before are very measured particularly in the established markets and so China is growing and for all the reasons Arnold talked about before we believe it's going to be a fabulous market for us over time with measured capacity growth in the existing markets.
And that bode well.
Thank you.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
And I think at this point operator we will take one more question.
Perfect.
Our final question comes from the line of Edward Friedman with McLean &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hello thank you taking my question.
You guys talked about increasing capacity in the next couple of years I was wondering you guys also talked about relative scarcity and I was wondering how does that jive together like if you increasing your ALBDs through the more shifts how does that create the scarcity that you talked about? Yes I think first of all overall the capacity growth for the industry is in the 4% to 5% range and our capacity growth along with vessels that we take out of service is going to be less than that.
So we are totally focused on measured capacity growth.
And we feel that with China in particular but even without China and the existing markets that that level of growth as long as we're creating demand because we're still relatively low penetrated as an industry as cruise industry in the overall vacation market that there is ample opportunity to create the relative scarcity to get yields off over time and to have them be up and still the greatest vacation value there is while providing the greatest vacation experience there.
So we are quite confident for ourselves and for the industry that we can create a relative scarcity that will bode well for the future.
Have you seen that the industry is also doing the same thing? I overall would say yes.
It's being demonstrated today.
As you can see the results we are achieving we're out 25% '14 over '13 our guidance to be up 25% in this year and that's not from 25% added capacity obviously.
And so we are in a process of demonstrating it.
We certainly have plans in place and for making the investment to continue to do so.
You'd have to talk to the other companies how they see it but our perception we're one of every two people who cruise in the world.
So we're relatively reasonable Bellwether for the overall industry and we see it as a strong industry for years to come.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for your questions everyone and for being online.
We had a strong quarter.
We are confident in our guidance going forward.
And we look forward to delivering results and ultimately delivering the double-digit return on invested capital the next three to four years.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Please proceed.
I'm hoping to drill down into the somewhat more conservative than expected outlook for both yields and cost in the fourth quarter.
In your guidance it would imply that there's been a sequential decline in your pricing power in the fourth quarter and so my first question is if you could address whether or not there has been a sequential decline? So there are a couple of factors involved.
We have first of all more difficult comparisons in the fourth quarter than the earlier quarters.
For example in the fourth quarter of 2014 we were up 2.8% whereas in the quarters prior we were up 1.8% actually now 2.2% in the third quarter.
And so it's a tougher comparison.
That's one aspect.
And in addition we are still facing some continued headwinds in Europe that can affect yield.
But overall we are very pleased with the yield result for this year and we have increased our overall guidance for the year in terms of results and are looking to finish the year strong and with the lengthening in the booking curve going to next year well-positioned for continued yield improvement.
How much space do you still have to fill for the fourth quarter is there still some opportunity there to see some stronger pricing in these quarter-end bookings? Typically we say for the current quarter we're at 85% plus booked.
I mean so we are very strongly booked.
We gave our best guess.
And given the strong close in bookings that we saw in the third quarter is part of the reason why we took up the yield guidance for the fourth quarter.
And by the way we took it up both on the ticket and the onboard side.
And so that was the $0.04 improvement that I was talking about in revenue yield for the fourth quarter.
So there might be some more upside but basically we gave you our best shot at the overall yield for the fourth quarter.
And on the cost side could you comment on the fourth quarter cost? Sure.
Harry on the fourth quarter costs remember as I commented on the third quarter what we had indicated was that there was a seasonalization of cost between the third and fourth quarters so there's about $0.04 of cost that we do still expect to spend for the full year but we flow it into the fourth quarter which drove that number up.
A lot of that was advertising and it just has to do with the timing between the quarters.
And the decision to invest to drive revenue and yields next year.
Go ahead Harry.
Okay.
And just the last piece of it on the timing of the delay and did I read this correctly that that should also impact the fourth quarter by $0.04? Yes.
And remember Harry we've said this many times in the call before it's very hard to get the timing of expenses between the quarters correct and you really have to kind of judge us on the full year and we didn't make any change in the overall cost for the full year it's just a flip-flop between the quarters.
The reason I'm drilling down into it and I appreciate that is that we've gotten a number of questions on why the yields are so sequentially or apparently weaker and then the cost apparently higher so I'm just trying to drill into that a bit more but thanks for the color.
Just to follow up just quickly on what Harry just said about this is once again a beat and raise quarter and then the guide seems to be once again a little bit lighter than people expected.
Besides the stock implications I just wanted to know from an operating environment how do you focus your organization on goals if you seem to be not getting to them quarter to quarter? And then separately the yield management system which is interesting that you're going to integrate all of them at least integrate six brands together are you using an outside consultant and are there potential for integration or any other issues which sometimes seen that with other companies and I just wanted to see how that process is going to work? First of all I'll take the second part first on the yield management revenue management system it’s just a system so it's a platform and it involves the [indiscernible] modeling and inquiry systems and what have you we'll just go to a common platform that six brands will initially adopt and over time the other brands may migrate to it as well.
Each of the brands have their own revenue management system today very different platforms some are more sophisticated than others.
So this will be an overall enhancement so two.
And obviously we are using outside resources to help us develop to and implementation has already begun.
So it's part of work that we have undertaken over the last couple of years.
In terms of setting goals and whatnot first of all we think about it over the long-term as well as annually and we manage the business to double-digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years.
To do that we have to have solid yield growth we have to contain costs and we have to be disciplined in capital management.
Our teams have performed very well.
This year we just had record earnings we feel very good about it we just increased guidance for the year and we are marching forward.
In fact we are ahead of pace based on this year and that's why I put in the caution that we don't expect always to be ahead of pace but this year we are ahead of pace.
We are going to grow earnings 35% and that's despite drag of a few pennies net of fuel and currency compared to prior year.
I'd just like to add on the fourth quarter that the comparison for transactional currency is greater in the fourth quarter so on a constant currency basis the fourth quarter yields are up 3% relative to the third quarter which was up 5%.
And again the sequential from last year had much more difficult comps in the fourth quarter of last year.
Okay so thank you for that color both of you.
Just Arnold on the yield management system because I think it is very interesting and I think it shows the integration that you have started to put through within the different brands is it really just so that they can see some of the trends that one brand is seeing so it's really more informational or are you going to start to link some of the pricing and mechanisms together or is that sort of step two at some point? The reality is again is the behavior of communicating coordinating and collaborating.
So the yield the revenue management instrument itself is a combined ideation of best practices across the brands and then new ideas from the outside and inside.
So it's an elevation of capabilities that we are going to introduce and six of the brands can adopt it at once.
The other brands already have more sophisticated revenue management tools and will migrate over time as we make the enhancements and refinements to the basic system once it's in place.
So the reality here is our brands are very different from each other they compete in different typographic markets but they can learn from each other and common itineraries and common regions of the world and intelligence in terms of what's happening with booking curves and reactions especially since they all tend to extend chasing newer cruise than chasing different newer cruise individuals because of the typographic profile but they are all chasing newer cruise.
So we've had benefit to date which is why we have had some of the outstanding operating results we've had and this too will allow us to capture even more benefit regardless of the environment.
David in the release and then also in your prepared remarks you gave us some color on the booking curve and on pricing next year.
I'm wondering when you all talk about the pricing being at lower constant dollar prices for next year relative to better bookings can you give us that color in constant currency? Is it also down year-over-year in constant currency? We don't have all the details in constant currency in bookings which is why I gave it to you in constant dollar but we can clearly see a portion of it as I indicated in my remarks for the North American brands was attributed to the transactional currency impact.
So that's part of it.
Yes and I recall you saying that so that's why I was wondering it was kind of begging the question if it were just for the transactional currency or the pricing is the pricing up? The pricing would still be down but less.
But overall when you look at this Felicia when you look at the whole position you got to keep in mind that it's not about where we are today it's about where our goals and what do we want to be at the end of the day when we closeout the first second third and fourth quarter of 2016 and we are driving the booking curve ahead we're well positioned we said we have less to sell.
And so what we are looking to do is to mitigate the discounting that's closer into the sale and to drive yields up for 2016 and we feel very good with all the things that Arnold talked about relative to yield management practices and other things and we feel very confident we'll be able to do that in 2016.
That's great to hear because we're just getting a lot of questions from investors about the pricing power of your brands because it seems like you are in a very good position and Arnold you said earlier that Carnival was booked at better pricing than you have seen since 2008 so just questions on why the pricing why you wouldn't have more pricing power now? Keep in mind though when you start putting all this together keep in mind that we don't necessarily have to raise prices from where we are to finish-up up.
If we discount less as we go forward which is something we have been talking about for quite a while now that we will finish the year 2016 with increased yields as I indicated in my prepared remarks.
I think the simplest statement we can make is for those who are considering cruising next year is better to book now because this is the best time for them to book.
That's very helpful thank you.
And Arnold you've been consistent with your outlook for getting to double-digit ROIC consistently staying up three to four years.
Just wondering if you could help us understand what the starting point or the potential ending point is in terms of year? In the next three or four years.
So are we starting from today or starting from…? No that's three or four years from today yes.
So if fuel stays low and currency improves for us meaning the dollar weakens [indiscernible] gets stronger then we get there sooner.
If not we'll get there in that timeframe or at the tail end of it dependent on what happens with all those dynamics but fundamentally we started out four to five years last year we are down to three to four next year we'll be down to two to three.
Just as a point of reference at the midpoint of our September guidance we'll be about 7% ROIC for 2015.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
Going back to David in 2016 I understand when you talk about pricing being down it makes sense especially in North America given your pricing strategy but when you look at the EAA markets I guess that's the one that's a little bit more surprising.
So what I'm trying to get at is as you look at the EAA markets are there any markets that would particularly stand out to you that are a little bit more challenging at this point? Overall Continental Europe is probably more challenging.
When you think about all of the economic difficulties and the geopolitical issues and the growing refugee concerns that's the area that has had the most challenges in terms of pricing for 2016 but we've had these challenges all year in 2015 to some extent and we are forecasting that we are going to get yield improvement for our EAA brands for 2015.
So hopefully despite all these challenges we'll be able to do that in 2016 as well.
And one of the things to keep in mind as well is we are also seeing a transfer we have announced the Costa Fortuna will be going to Asia in 2016.
So Costa will have reduced capacity which also helps play in less supply in this type of environment which should help yields for 2016.
The other comment too is to just keep in mind and I know why you guys focused on yield and we do too but there is another aspect to this we can be return accretive and drive return on invested capital in certain markets across certain brands even with some challenging yield and that results from just capacity additions and overall improvement in total mix and onboard revenues et cetera.
So while yield is definitely a key metric and we totally focus on it as well slower than you might expect yield growth does not necessarily equals slower than you might expect return accretion.
And just to follow up on that the Asian component of that EAA you guys are still pretty encouraged about what you are seeing so far for 2016? Absolutely.
Asia again that will be a good case in point China yields may come down a bit but they're going to be return accretive because of the significant increase in capacity.
Now at the same time with that capacity increase they are still going to represent 5% of our total capacity and by having the capacity there it actually reduces our capacity growth in the rest of the world.
And so we won't be happy even though we have 3.7% capacity growth for next year.
Only 2% of it is outside of the Asian market.
And so 2% capacity growth in the rest of the world is reasonably conservative growth for us in the current environment which is also good.
David can I ask you one more question in terms of the NCC I know you talked about next year that that being slightly up or that's what you guys are seeing right now I guess maybe what is driving what potentially would drive that up next year and is there anything are there any levers that you guys can pull especially on the marketing side given where the Carnival brand is in terms of their pricing now relative to where it was back in 2008? Just real quickly before David comments and we will give you guys full guidance in December we are about to go through our planning meetings that David mentioned we are evaluating all the reviews from the brands in terms of investment spending they may want to make in digital media broadcast media events and PR promotions and other things to drive demand.
So we'll take a hard look at all that.
Our plan is to deliver the double-digit return on invested capital and we're not going to save our way there but we also have a focus on cost containment.
And as I've mentioned to you in previous calls we are focused on cost containment for two reasons one is the drag on earnings but the other one is it creates the dollars to invest to drive revenue.
And so we are achieving the cost savings that we set out to do and then the question is whether that will flow through the bottom line are we going to invest them to drive yield.
The investments we have made to date appear to have paid off because of the significant improvements and the business and we'll be taking a hard look at that going forward.
And I went through some of the areas I mean Arnold just talked about the investments that we could potentially make and we'll evaluate but the other things that I had mentioned in my notes are the fact that while headline inflation is zero because of commodity prices there is inflation in certain areas of our business and we built that into our 2016 numbers as well.
But offsetting all of that we are looking at leveraging our scale.
We had talked about the fact that we saved $70 million to $80 million in 2015 and we're working hard to do something similar for 2016 and we also have some benefit from the reduced drydock days as well.
So it's a combination of all those things which let me to give you guidance that cost could be up slightly next year.
So I do have a question that I was in line for already but first I just wanted to clarify Arnold you just said something about Asia yield I'm just wondering was that a theoretical comment you said something about Asia yields may come down next year but it would still be return accretive was that kind of theoretical or is that describing what you're seeing with yields? It's too early to delve on that but it's plausible and it's possible but it's too early to conclude that at this point in time.
But what would not be too early to conclude is that if the yields come down it will still be return accretive.
Robin I'm surprised you're this deep into the call.
If I heard a question from you so normally… I tried to get in line earlier.
So I just wanted to clarify so that was you weren't giving that as a guidance you were just sort of saying as theoretical… No that was for example.
Okay great.
And then so my original question was this I think the comments about expenses shifting between quarters and your yields going up for this year I think that's pretty straightforward that it's a better outlook than the year started.
My question was really on 2016 and I know that David you mentioned that certain things about the base of comparison getting better means that your prices wouldn't necessarily have to change but I guess I just wanted to clarify in your June release you talked about 2016 prices being lower due to FX and then in this release you said prices are lower in constant currency and so I understand that lower prices but higher volume means that you can raise prices as you get closer but can you just kind of clarify if we were talking about apples to apples what you are seeing now versus what you were seeing in June just because the commentary and the release is kind of on a different basis so just sort of what happened with pricing for 2016 just since June? It's really an apples and oranges comparison because in June the comments that we were making related to the back half of 2015 the last two quarters and the first quarter of 2016 whereas the comments I made here related to the first half of 2016.
So because the prior year comparisons are different it's hard to read in and these are apples and oranges comparison because they are different time periods.
So if you were talking about just the 2016 what would you have seen just incrementally since June on just the 2016? As we had indicated in the third quarter I mean we had seen a 20% increase in volume.
I mean we were very pleased with the volume but we did say it was at lower prices so we are driving the booking curve ahead and overall we believe we'll get yield improvement for 2016.
I will just add to David's comment to December it's too early to give yield guidance for 2016 but if you're saying what's the feeling compared to June I would just say that we remain very confident in our ability to drive directionally towards the double-digit return on invested capital in next three or four years.
To do that we have to have solid yield improvement and we feel very confident probably even more confident than we did in June that we can deliver on solid yield improvement next year and that's despite some of the headwinds that today exist in Europe and by the time we get to December maybe those things won't be the same but today with some of the headwinds in Europe geopolitical macroeconomic malaise the intense tension over there around the refugee situation that has affected all travel not just cruise but all travel.
So those things may still be present or they may wane between now and when we get to December but we will give you full guidance then.
A couple of quick follow-ups here.
So sort of going back to handicapping the yield guide for the fourth quarter remind us what the mix of business is between the Caribbean and Europe 3Q versus 4Q? I don't know if you have those numbers in front of you but it seems to me that your mix of European business goes down your mix of Caribbean business goes way up European business is trending not quite as well as or not nearly as well as your Caribbean business it sounds like.
So it seems like there is a pretty nice sequential yield benefit just from mix.
Help us dimentionalize that am I thinking about that the right way? I think I'll just start with a general comment.
From a deployment standpoint I think that's a fair statement and David will certainly comment on those numbers but I think the comment we are making from a source market perspective we are still sourcing a substantial amount of consumers in the third and fourth quarter and that doesn't change from quarter to quarter.
On the deployment in terms of whether ships are sailing David? In the third quarter it's about a quarter of our capacity is in the Caribbean and 45% in Europe and that goes up to 30% in the Caribbean in the fourth quarter and Europe goes down to 30%.
So you are right there are more ships in the Caribbean and less in Europe in total in the fourth quarter than the third but I think you have to remember that on a year-over-year basis it was a similar trend in 2014.
And so when you are comparing year-over-year you are comparing then apples and apples and as Arnold indicated we saw some pretty good yield improvement in the fourth quarter of 2014 and so as a result of that yield improvement we are guiding to 3% constant currency yield increase in the fourth quarter which may be down slightly from the third but remember the fourth quarter last year was higher than the third quarter last year in improvement.
So it is a more difficult comparison.
Got it that makes sense.
And then maybe this is slicing the information a little bit too finely but obviously at the end of your quarter at the end of August stock market was in freefall.
Could you see any discernible change in demand over that period of time and if so has that then recovered so far during the month of September? We did not see any falloff in demand related to stock market or general economic fluctuations none whatsoever.
Okay.
And then just last question for me sort of going back to this lengthening of the booking curve basically it seems like David what you are saying here is that we should very much expect bookings to be up and prices maybe to be flat to down just based on how you are doing your pricing strategy.
I guess the question is A is that right is that what we should expect going forward and B does that have any impact on your guidance in that a lot of the pricing strength that you are going to get is ultimately going to be close in? I guess the other way to put it is are you assuming that close-in pricing is better in your guidance or are you sticking to a wait-and-see approach with respect to the close-in numbers in light of the new pricing strategy? By moving the booking driving the booking curve further out we are actually hoping to have a lot less to sell closer in overall and we are looking at it as a situation where as we have said before what we want to do is have people book early it is the best time to book because the pricing will only go up and there won't be last-minute deep discounting to fill those cabins.
That's the strategy we've been talking about for about two years now.
And so as a result of that I think we're on the right path towards good yield improvement for 2016.
There are other factors in addition to transactional currency and stuff that influence the appearance of early pricing and yields.
We have targeted affinity groups that some of the brands target.
They book earlier that kind of make the yield look lower but in fact it's just coming sooner then it's spread over time with those affinity groups.
Those affinity groups have big onboard spend patterns and overall we yield in total very nicely on those.
Of course we don't have the onboard revenue yield factored in to this at this point in time.
So there are a lot of dynamics that can influence what it looks like early.
Some of it is just pricing philosophy of a brand and some is just booking patterns and charters and all that can come into play as well as affinity groups to fill out cabin to drive onboard revenue.
Most of my questions have been answered but I'm curious if you guys have changed your hedging strategy at all now that energy prices are pretty low and they look like they're going to be sustained at low levels for some time going ahead? Our policy has been to use the cash flow as collars.
We have already I believe 48% of 2016 already collared and the future pricing which is what you have to establish the collars on is not the same of course as the spot pricing.
At this point in time we have seen no advantage to unwinding those collars or anything to that effect.
When we looked at it once earlier this year we would take them and then if we had done it we would have lost on both ends unwinding and then setting new collars.
And so at this point wouldn't have any particular plans to change but we review it constantly.
And we also as you can see in our filings we have got the cash flow collars for 2017 and 2018 as well and so we are well positioned and well hedged at this point in time but we continually re-evaluate it as Arnold indicated.
Arnold and Mickey and I and Josh Weinstein our Treasurer frequently get together and talk about it and take a look at it and review input from other sources as well.
Okay.
And then for Europe you guys had discussed a couple of areas that were struggling.
Was there any geography that came in really well ahead of expectations overseas? First comment I'd like to make is that our European brands have performed well.
So I don't want to leave an impression like they are stumbling and bumbling or anything they performed well and as David mentioned EAA [indiscernible] despite all the stuff we've been talking about and that has occurred this year we have seen yield improvement and have seen return improvement.
So that's the first comment.
The second comment is that Continental Europe has been hit hardest.
We have seen we have the 175th anniversary year for Cunard that was a very successful year for the Cunard brand.
We had the spectacular launch of the Britannia which helped elevate the entire P&amp;O brand.
So the U.K.
did well very well this year.
And again AIDA continues to perform in Germany despite capacity introduction from competitors as well as just also the impact of sailings related to geopolitical tensions and so on and so forth.
But the brands continue to do well and are doing better collectively than they have in the past and we expect that to continue into next year despite the challenges.
Just a couple of things here on the booking curve you mentioned several times that you'll continue to push to lengthen that or being successful in doing so.
Historically if we go back pre lot of incidents and the financial crisis from that the industry was running about a six-month window on bookings.
Could you tell us specifically where you're at right now and sort of where do you consider the sweet nirvana spot to balance that don't give away too much upside on remaining bookings versus give enough all into persuade the consumer that they will understand and get the best price the earlier they book? The sweet spot will vary over time as you would expect as people change environments change and those types of things.
So I don't think there is a nirvana.
That's something that we continue to look at over time and will evaluate that.
But where we stand today as I talked about in my notes the North American brands were well ahead.
So the North American brands are at a higher end of the historical booking curve whereas the EAA brands which I said were in line with the prior year while they are still within the historical booking curves they are at the lower half of the historical booking curve.
So it's a mix of two worlds.
As we have talked before the strength of the economy in North America clearly has helped shape the booking curves in the two segments of our business.
And David is there a specific number where you are on a global blended basis or a specific those ranges of historical booking curve ranges that you are referring to? We've given you the ranges before and as I said North America is in the higher half and EAA is in the lower half and for competitive reasons that's all the detail I want to share.
Okay fair.
Regarding the 2016 cost that you said would be up slightly at this point on that cruise cost should we think about that you are winding down the accelerated dry docks in the first half of 2016 and therefore from a cadence standpoint all else being equal and assuming that you are increased marketing or other investments would be spread evenly would we expect the first half of the year to have a little more skew of that higher cost versus the back half? It's very early to tell so it's very hard.
We have not gone through we have a difficult time and uptime analyzing it quarter by quarter within 2015 as you saw the timing of expenses between the third and fourth quarters that I referred to.
So it's very difficult to tell this early in the year where we are.
The one thing that I did mention relating to the first quarter or the first half is that there is a significant transactional currency impact particularly in the first quarter.
And so as you think about next year keep that in mind.
This is Assia.
I will just ask one question.
Given that last year Europe was surprisingly a strong performer was [indiscernible] this year the Caribbean seems to be the star performer.
So it seems that especially for Q4 and Q1 when we have a lot more of the ships being deployed in the Caribbean and the Bahamas there probably is a lot of upside especially given your good booked position at this point.
Would you Arnold and David and Beth agree with this? I would say again we're not going to give any more guidance for 2016 it's too early for us.
But the reality is that Carnival outperformed late last year as well and they continue to outperform throughout this year the Carnival brand which is primarily in the Caribbean.
They have had an outstanding year with strong demand and strong yield as reflected in everything we said to this point and reflected on the fact we've raised guidance for the full year.
So we have a lot of momentum there and we feel very good about it but at this point it's too early to give firm yield guidance on anything for 2016.
And Arnold it seems that the Carnival brand was very helpful in terms of the excellent Q3 results? Absolutely yes.
All the brands [indiscernible].
We had growth in both sides of the Atlantic as David pointed out but the Carnival brand definitely outperformed again yes.
Okay.
Thank you Arnold for taking my questions.
Again congratulations on a great Q3.
We'll take one more call operator.
So two quick questions I guess capacity growth did that change for the fourth quarter given the AIDA delay and what are you expecting for capacity now? Yes it did change a little bit.
For the year our capacity growth came down to 1.7% and for the fourth quarter it's 2.3%.
Okay perfect.
And then I think you changed some commission structure elements at the Carnival brand.
Can you talk about that and kind of what the travel agent response has been and whether that's something you are assessing within the other brands? Fundamentally for the Carnival brand to get everyone up to speed we basically allow people to achieve a certain payout at a lower tier level in the commission structure.
That was a combination of one acknowledgment to travel professional partners for the great work and contributions they have made to our success this year and also just the recognition for the brand and their Carnival conversations discussing the travel professionals changes that the travel professionals thought would really make a difference and would balance things from their perspective.
So it's in response to input from the travel professional partners and the acknowledgment of their contributions and what we thought it would take to help them help us sustain the momentum.
Each brand does their own evaluation.
The brands have some overlap in travel professional partners.
There is also [indiscernible] because the guests are different and each brand makes its own evaluation and Carnival brand was starting from a different point just some of the other brands were so that all of the brands will make independently their decision.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Everyone thank you very much again.
We appreciate your interest.
We feel great about the quarter.
We have increased guidance for the year.
We feel strongly looking ahead that we are on a good path to deliver the double-digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years.
We see solid yield improvements for next year.
We'll give you actual yield guidance and stuff in December as well as tighter cost guidance for the future but we feel very good about the business and the momentum and we thank you for your interest.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Audio Gap] Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This is Arnold Donald President and CEO of Carnival Corporation &amp; plc.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
Today I am joined by our Chairman Micky Arison David Bernstein our Chief Financial Officer; and Beth Roberts our Vice President of Investor Relations.
Now before I begin please note that some of our remarks on this call will be forward-looking.
I must refer you to the cautionary statement in today's press release.
2015 was a great year for our company.
In fact one of our strongest ever all thanks to the dedication and enthusiasm of our 120 000 team members who delivered nearly 11 million joyful vacation experiences.
And due to the vital support from our tens of thousands of travel agent partners around the globe.
Despite a $0.10 drag from currency and fuel despite macro economic and geopolitical challenges despite MERS and despite the usual weather and other one-off events we were able to exceed the high end of our full year guidance that we provided last December delivering over 4% higher revenue yields 40% growth in earnings and that's after a 25% earnings increase last year and well over $4 billion of cash from operations.
Our strong cash flow was more than enough to fund our capital commitments and return value to shareholders through our 20% increase in the dividend to over $900 million annually and the recent repurchase of more than $400 million of Carnival stock.
I am very proud of our team's many accomplishments this year particularly the successful efforts to increase awareness and consideration for our great cruise vacations.
including our multi-faceted campaigns those around the Super Bowl that generated over 10 billion positive media impressions during the height of wave season.
P&amp;O Cruises delivery of Britannia the largest ship ever built specifically for British guests and named by her Majesty Queen Elisabeth II drawing a worldwide audience and a ringing endorsement of cruising.
Princess Cruises' 50th anniversary celebration which reunited the original cast of the Love Boat TV series and included an award-winning float in the Rose Parade.
Cunard's 175th anniversary salute to Liverpool where the three Queens Elizabeth Victoria and Queen Mary II captivated 1.3 million onlookers in what may have been the largest attendance at a single day maritime event in history.
And most recently our five ship event in Sydney Harbour which garnered P&amp;O Cruises Australia well over three hours of live coverage on Australia's Today Show.
Now these well-crafted opportunities showcase our brands increase an awareness and consideration for our cruise vacations.
In fact our positive media impressions are up threefold in just two years.
This year we made significant progress on multiple other efforts designed to further our journey toward consistent yield improvement by creating demand and excess of supply.
Now we reinforced our leadership position in the burgeoning China cruise market with the successful introduction of our fourth ship in 2015.
And we are well positioned in 2016 with two more year-round ships entering the market one each for our Costa and Princess brands.
In 2017 we will have both our Carnival Cruise Line and AIDA brand enter the market along with Princess Cruises' Majestic Princess the first ship built specifically for Chinese guests and designed to maximize Chinese consumer demand.
In addition we recently signed a joint venture with CSSC and CIC to begin a new cruise brand in China.
Eventually we expect to bolster our growth in China for many years to come.
Entering the market with multiple brands allows us to grow our presence faster and achieve deeper penetration by serving more of the differentiated market segments that exist there.
We also launched our 10th brand in the Carnival Corporation family Fathom addressing a whole new travel category.
We are excited about the prospects of doing good while offering meaningful experiences to travelers initially to the Dominican Republic.
We are also excited about our planned sailings to Cuba made possible by Fathom.
To date Fathom has helped generate over 20 billion media impressions and counting.
Now of course the best way to increase demand is to continue to exceed our guests' expectations.
We continue to bring the best specialty restaurants and celebrity chef-designed menus to sea.
We have further elevated the guests' dining experiences through our growing list of celebrity chefs which now include the renowned Thomas Keller as well as Australian chef Curtis Stone and chocolatier Norman Love joining Marco Pierre Weight Guy Fieri and David Burke amongst others.
Our entertainment offering continues to be further enhanced including BB King's Blues Club Lincoln Center Stage and composer Stephen Schwartz of Wicked along with a host of other innovations.
The diversity of great entertainers aboard our ships keeps getting better with headliners like folk legends Crosby Stills &amp; Nash jazz star Herbie Hancock; country singer Trace Adkins; Diana Ross and even the Grinch through Carnival Cruise Lines Seuss at Sea program.
And to give consumers yet another reason to take a cruise we will even host our first fashion week at sea.
Now these along with fresh retail and gaming options including the launch of innovative new mobile gaming at sea are all designed to offer guests even more of what they want and in turn drive higher onboard revenue.
We are realizing the benefits from improved coordination which has already contributed to the yield [ph] improvements we've seen.
We've now completed the design phase of a common revenue management system for six of our brands; the full impact of which we will begin to see in 2017.
We continue to share learning’s to improve onboard beverage revenues through bar-related experienced innovation menu design and all-inclusive beverage offerings.
The behavior of communicating collaborating and coordinating has already resulted in improved beverage revenue across the fleet; yet it is still in its early stages.
Now we've also prioritized 2016 sourcing savings opportunities and have identified efforts to deliver another $75 million of cost savings bringing the cumulative total since we began the conversation to $170 million to help offset inflation.
Clearly all these efforts and many others are simply building blocks.
And its very gratifying to see return on invested capital in the year at nearly 7.5%.
Now that's up from roughly 4.5% just two short years ago.
In fact a number of our brands have reached the double-digit threshold already including our flagship brand Carnival Cruise Lines.
We are very very proud of the Carnival brand team who have worked so hard and so effectively to accelerate the brand's return to double-digit return on invested capital.
So look we have much more to do to keep the momentum going into 2016 and beyond.
In 2016 we are especially excited about our new ship deliveries AIDAprima Carnival Vista Holland America [indiscernible] and Seabourn Encore offering innovative features such as an outdoor ice rink a lazy river ride an open air sky ride the first IMAX theater at sea and BLEND the first purpose-built personalized wine blending venue at sea and many many others all engineered to help exceed guests' expectations.
We expect each delivery to help drive demand well in excess of our measured supply growth.
Our capacity growth in both North America and Europe is less than 2% next year.
As expected our overall 3.5% capacity growth is less than the industry growth and will again be weighted toward the Asia-Pacific region as we transfer our capacity to meet the increasing demand there.
We remain committed to our ongoing strategy to drive demand and our booking levels for the first three quarters of 2016 are well ahead of last year with pricing comparisons turning increasingly positive.
Of course we start the year with our usual degree of caution since we give guidance before the wave season begins and we face more difficult comparisons as we lap our very strong 2015 success.
At this point in time we expect a favorable environment in North America tempered somewhat by ongoing geopolitical and macro economic uncertainties particularly for European markets and destinations.
We currently expect another 20% improvement in earnings in 2016 to a midpoint of $3.25.
That's a historical high for our company and more than double what we earned in 2013.
As we benefit from continued strong operational execution and at the moment an added boost from the net impact of fuel and currency.
Now while we cannot count on this benefit from fuel and currency over time and while the path may not always be smooth we are confident in achieving our double-digit threshold and we have multiple avenues to get there.
So while we are briefly celebrating the year and indeed it was a great year we remain focused on our primary objective.
We expect return on invested capital of 8.5% in 2016 and we expect to reach double-digit return on invested capital in the next two to three years.
And now I'd like to turn it over to David.
Thank you Arnold.
Before I begin please note all of my references to revenue ticket prices and cost metrics will be in constant currency unless otherwise stated.
I'll start today with a summary of our 2015 fourth quarter and full-year results.
Then I will provide some insights on current booking trends and finish up with some color on our 2016 December guidance.
Our adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.50.
This was $0.12 above the midpoint of our September guidance.
The improvement was essentially driven by two things $0.04 from net revenue yields which benefited from improved pricing on last minute bookings as well as strong onboard spending and $0.05 from lower fuel prices and currency.
I am pleased to report that we still would have been significantly higher than guidance even without the benefit of lower fuel prices and currency.
Now let's turn to the fourth-quarter operating results versus the prior year.
Our capacity increased 2%.
The North American brands were essentially flat while the European Australian and Asian brands also known as our EAA brands were up close to 6%.
Our total net revenue yields in the fourth quarter were up just over 4%.
Let's break apart the two components of net revenue yield.
Net ticket yields were up almost 4% driven by our North American brands from improvement in the Caribbean and late season Alaska programs.
Net onboard and other yield increased just over 4.5% mainly related to bar casino and communications as our initiatives in those areas continue to pay dividends.
Net cruise cost per ALBD excluding fuel were up just over 3% which was in line with September guidance.
In summary the fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.23 higher than the prior year driven by operational improvements worth $0.13 and favorable net impact of lower fuel prices and currency worth $0.10.
Now let's look back at the full year.
Our adjusted EPS was $2.70 versus $1.93 for the prior year.
The $0.77 improvement resulted from $0.46 of operational improvements driven by a strong 4.3% revenue yield improvement and a $0.31 benefit from lower fuel prices and currency.
The 2015 adjusted EPS exceeded the high end of the initial guidance range we gave last December of $2.30 to $2.60.
The improvement over last year's December guidance resulted from essentially two things $0.40 of higher net revenue yield from better than expected net ticket yields at our North American brands driven by Carnival Cruise Lines and stronger onboard and other yields.
This was partially offset by a $0.10 drag from fuel prices and currency.
Let's turn to booking trends for 2016.
As I indicated at the beginning of my remarks all of my references to ticket prices will be in constant currency unless otherwise stated.
We have transitioned our P&amp;L analysis from constant dollars to constant currency.
We are now working to transition our bookings data to constant currency as well which we expect to complete over the next year.
We do currently have some bookings data in constant currency that we will share with you.
However you will occasionally hear me refer to certain bookings data in terms of constant dollar until the transition is complete.
Remember that constant dollar comparisons do not remove transactional currency impacts.
For example constant dollar does not remove the currency impact of the Aussie dollar revenue at our US dollar brand Princess Cruises.
At this point in time for the first three quarters of 2016 cumulative fleetwide bookings are well ahead at slightly higher prices.
The fact that we are well ahead on the booked position with less left to sell should bode well for pricing on future bookings.
Now let's drill down into the cumulative fleetwide book position.
First for our North American brands Caribbean occupancy is well ahead of the prior year at higher prices.
For Alaska occupancy is nicely ahead of the prior year at higher prices.
2015 was a great Alaskan season and 2016 is shaping up to be even better.
For the seasonal European program occupancy is nicely ahead of the prior year at lower constant dollar prices primarily driven by transactional currency and ship mix as the Carnival Vista is sailing a Mediterranean program this summer right after we take delivery of the ship in Italy.
Secondly for our EAA brands both occupancy and pricing are in line with the prior year.
Now turning to booking volume.
Since September for the first three quarters of 2016 booking volumes are in line with the prior year at higher prices.
Since our book position is ahead and we have less to sell than the prior year booking volumes being in line with the prior year is an encouraging trend that gives us the opportunity to get higher prices on the remaining bookings.
Finally I want to provide you with some color on 2016.
Many early indications are positive but as Arnold mentioned our guidance is tempered by ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainties particularly for the European markets and destinations.
With that said for 2016 we are expecting net revenue yields to grow by approximately 3%.
This increase does include one point of yield resulting from an accounting reclassification in our EAA segment.
However the reclassification has no impact on operating income as the dollar change in net revenues is offset by an equivalent dollar change in the cruise cost.
For the full year we are expecting to see yield improvement in almost all itineraries.
However we are being cautious on Asia where industry capacity is expected to increase by 33% this year and Australia where the industry capacity is expected to increase by 19%.
Now turning to costs.
Net cruise costs without fuel per ALBD are expected to be up approximately 2% for 2016.
However this does include a 1.5 point increase resulting from the reclassification in our EAA segment that I previously mentioned.
Without the reclassification costs would be flat to up slightly which is in line with what I indicated on the September conference call.
Broadly speaking there are four major drivers of the cost change.
First we expect to benefit about 0.75 of a point from the lower drydock days in 2016.
Secondly we are forecasting about a point of benefit as we further leverage our scale.
Offsetting these benefits is about 1.5 points for forecasted inflation and additional investments in both the products and new markets which we expect to cost about 0.5 point.
This includes enhancements to both entertainment and food along with the upfront investments by Carnival Cruise Line and AIDA in 2016 to support their entry into China in 2017.
For 2016 we are forecasting to benefit from the impacts of lower fuel prices which we expect to be partially offset by the stronger dollar.
The net favorable impact of lower fuel prices and currency included in our guidance is $0.22 versus the prior year.
Putting all these factors together our adjusted EPS for 2016 is $3.10 to $3.40 versus $2.70 for 2015.
And now I wanted to share with you some of our current rules of thumb about the impact of currency and fuel prices on our 2016 results.
To start with a 10% change in all relevant currencies relative to the US dollar would impact our P&amp;L by approximately $0.30 for the full year and $0.04 for the first quarter.
For fuel price changes a 10% change in the current stock price represents a $0.10 impact to the full year and $0.02 impact for the first quarter.
The third rule of thumb relates to our fuel derivative portfolio.
A 10% change in Brent would result in a $0.04 change in realized losses on fuel derivative for the full year and a $0.01 impact for the first quarter.
On a final note for your planning purposes I wanted to let you know that we expect the March conference call to be a little later in March than usual to allow time for internal management meetings that will be held around the South Florida Cruise Shipping Convention in mid-March.
And now I will turn the call back over to Arnold.
Thank you David.
Operator now let's open it up for questions please.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this question-and-answer session is being recorded Friday December 18 2015.
One moment please for the first question.
Our first question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
First with a revenue related question.
You talked about the inventory left to sell.
If you could put that in percentage terms do you have 50% of your inventory left to sell through the first three quarters? I'm just trying to get a sense of how much is left to sell.
Generally speaking when we talk about where we are at this point in time for the whole year we are about half sold far more sold than the first and second quarter than the back half of the year but we are about 50% sold on average.
Okay.
Very good.
And then my second question is related to fuel.
Do you have any interest in changing the way that you are approaching your hedges given the extremely low level of bunker fuel and the impact that it could have should the price of Brent for whatever reason increase significantly? Hi Harry.
Good morning.
We review that constantly but so far with forward pricing we haven't seen an opportunity to do anything that we think makes sense.
Obviously nobody really knows as is evidenced by what happened the last couple of years.
But we constantly review it.
But at this time we see no reason to do anything different.
Keep in mind that given the collars and given the fact that the bottom of the collars are roughly $78 to $80 if fuel does go up we are very well protected up until the $80 and then we get back into the collars.
So we are well protected at the bottom end.
Okay.
My concern is not the bottom end; it's the top end.
We do have the high end in the collars but as Arnold said we are not changing given our point of view and given the amount of collars we have out there we feel that we are well-protected for the next three years.
All right.
Perhaps I'll give you a shout later on to get into more detail on that.
Thanks.
Okay you bet.
And just one last comment the last time we almost pulled the trigger on that we would have taken all the losses and then a couple of days later we would have been back in a loss situation again.
So we constantly look at it though.
Our next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
So you guys have both said in your prepared remarks in the guidance in your yield guidance you built in some cautious outlook.
One point was caution regarding Europe and the geopolitical events.
Just wondering how much that's weighing on your yield forecast for 2016? At this time overall we are being - we hope we are being conservative.
If you look at the high end of our guidance that would be a 4% yield improvement.
So definitely it's factored in along with a host of other things.
But we feel confident we are going to see yield improvement next year.
At this point in time we've done what we think is prudent and makes the most sense.
We are pre wave.
We've got a lot of information yet to see.
And that 4% is inclusive of the reclassification? Yes on the high end of the guidance.
Yes.
Okay just wanted to make sure.
And then just moving to Asia where you are also being cautious because of the capacity increases there when you look at China specifically for next year what's the trajectory of pricing that you have baked into your forecasts? In the end we expect overall our returns in China to be above the fleet average again next year.
We have a significant capacity increase 60% plus and around 60%.
And so we - it's a unit growth story for us in China.
So we are anticipating that while yields may come down a bit on balance our returns are going to be better than the fleet average and overall we are very very positive on the China market.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
Please proceed.
Great thanks.
I wonder if you could on the China question give us a sense just kind of ballpark of what you think China maybe contributed to your yields in '15 and what part of your guidance for next year is driven by China? In 2015 keep in mind we did have about a 50% increase in capacity in China.
And also with the impact of MERS we did see yields down just a little bit in China in 2015.
And as Arnold indicated we are looking at a 60% increase in China capacity in 2016.
And so - but it is a unit growth story and China is still getting yields particularly on the ticket side way above other parts of our business and it's an excellent market and it's gotten a very promising increase.
Keep in mind though that China is still in 2016 just 5% of our business and so it's a very small piece of the total.
But as Arnold said it's a unit growth story and over time we do expect it to be very promising.
Okay.
Great.
And my other question is I know your commentary about volume and pricing better than the guidance that you had talked about in September.
But I'm just thinking about in the last month or the last five weeks there's been a few incidents in the world.
Can you give us a sense of maybe how - I would assume there's some volume reduction initially after a disruption and then are volumes back to normal levels now versus a couple of weeks ago? We saw some impact from the events and the media associated with it and obviously saw the European activity was particularly impacted.
We saw some movement for North America brands - for itineraries that had that as a destination.
All that's been factored into our guidance going forward.
It's reflected in our projections and we feel confident about the projections at this point in time.
Overall I mean as Arnold indicated we see the blip but it has started to improve and we feel very good about the overall trend and where we are today.
So - and we built all of that into our current guidance.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Wieczynski with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
So David you kind of glanced over the accounting reclassification I guess.
Could you go into a little bit more detail as to what exactly it is and I guess why at this point why is this being done now? Steve it relates as I said to the EAA brand and it simply is a re-class between revenue and cost and there is no impact on operating – I am sorry operating income.
It really benefited internal management reporting and really this change it's not material.
We weren't even required to disclose it but we just wanted to be transparent so that everybody understood where the revenue yields were and that the 3% did benefit by about a point of the accounting reclassification.
So I guess another way to say it too is that if you look at your yield guidance for next year it's essentially 2% and then I think Arnold noted on the top end of that could be more like 3%.
Is that the right way to think about it? That's the right way to think about it yes.
Okay.
And then second question I guess just a little bit bigger picture question with China.
I guess Arnold how do you think about the market in terms of you guys are taking a bunch of different brands in that market AIDA and Costa and some other brands like that.
Do you think an AIDA brand will resonate well in that market and is it something that along the lines down the road you could create a little bit more confusion with the tour agencies over there? I think first of all as you are well aware there are over 100 million outbound tourists in China already and today cruise is capturing less than a million of those tourists and that number is going to grow dramatically in terms of the total number of outbound tourists and the fit for cruise is far greater than less than 1%.
So there's plenty of demand.
And then the Chinese are not that different than Americans or Europeans or anyone else.
There's a huge distribution curve of different interests and appetites.
For some a German product is going to be something they are very excited about; for others an Italian product; for others an American product and so on.
And so we see the opportunity in China to introduce a number of brands to take advantage of the pent-up demand there and to fit the various appetites and desires and different types of cruising experiences that the Chinese will want similar to other people around the world.
So that's it in a nutshell.
So yes we are launching AIDA and Carnival brands in 2017.
We already have Princess and Costa there today.
We have the joint venture with CSSC and CIC for a domestic brand launch sometime in that kind of timeframe.
And so we are very excited about China.
It is today only 5% of our capacity.
There may be discontinuities at times as you try to get distribution lined up with that pent up demand but it's all from our perspective very manageable.
But a very great market a strong future market a contributing market today to the bottom line and to our whole approach on developing relative scarcity around the world.
So the capacity growth that you see for us a lot of that goes to China and therefore - and similar for some of the other companies in the industry as well.
And so that constrains the capacity growth in the other markets.
Thanks for that Arnold.
Could I add one more question onto the end of that I guess when you look at China next year and your yields there next year will there be a significant impact from your change in terms of port mix and also some colder itineraries as well? We've been sailing year round in China for a while.
As you know we are number one in China in terms of home port activity and so we've been season-long.
So you won't see a lot of seasonality in our business.
You won't see a lot of port differentiation at this point either between Shanghai and Tianjin and the mix of our business either in China.
So we are expecting again good yields in China better than the fleet average next year.
But with capacity expansion we do recognize it's more of a unit volume growth play than a pure yield play.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Two questions.
First we saw a news story that Costa will be selling direct in the UK.
Is that something we could see in other markets or for other brands in the UK? So that's my first question.
And then second look your guidance has been very conservative the last few quarters.
This quarter $0.50 was $0.10 above the high end of the range.
I guess what I'm trying to understand from an operating perspective is where is that upside coming from quarter after quarter since so much of your bookings are on the books they are pre-sold.
So I'm trying to see where the variability is when you look back over the past few quarters to the upside? Okay first of all concerning the Costa comment travel agents are absolutely essential to our business.
They are a critical part of our business.
And something got lost in translation or whatever but the bottom line is we are not moving away from travel agents.
The reality in the UK for Costa is that they have very little business there and they are choosing to concentrate elsewhere.
However travel agents in the UK who choose to book on Costa can still do that.
The existing travel agents who are approved travel agents they can still do that and they can do it through Genoa and the mechanism is in place.
So something got lost in translation there but Costa is not going direct in the UK.
And your second question Steve there's a lot of moving pieces to our guidance.
I guess I would categorize them into four categories that affect our ability to get the accuracy correct.
First of all the net ticket revenue.
I mean yes we always say 85% to 95% of our bookings are on the books when we give the conference call but we are trying to project that last 10% or 15% and like this time in the fourth quarter we got better last-minute pricing on those bookings and that positively impacted the results.
Second is onboard.
We have no advanced bookings for onboard revenue and it gets very difficult to project the exact amount of money that 2.5 million or 3 million people are going to spend each quarter on our ships and so this quarter we were a couple of cents better on onboard revenue.
Third is net cruise costs.
And I think as I've said in the past while we are pretty good at the full year it's very difficult to predict every single month and every single quarter the exact split.
So we do occasionally talk about the seasonality or the timing between the quarters.
And really the fourth is fuel and currency.
I mean if you've got a crystal ball that we could use I would love to have it but I will tell you we take the current spot price of fuel and the current currency rates and we bake them in and they do change.
In fact in the fourth quarter as I indicated we saw a $0.05 improvement from the net impact of fuel and currency.
So those are the four things that vary and we are doing the best we can.
Obviously we've beaten the high side estimate for a number of quarters in a row and beaten guidance at minimum a number of quarters in a row.
We're going to work like crazy to keep doing that.
Having said that it's not always going to be smooth sailing and certainly quarter-to-quarter not and maybe not even year-to-year.
And so we do the best we can in the forecast.
But fundamentally we are on a path to get to the double-digit return on invested capital.
And that's the ultimate goal and we celebrate the mileposts along the way and we work like crazy to accelerate achieving that and we will continue to do that.
But we are trying to be as transparent as we can.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jared Sajan [ph] with Wolfe Resources.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So you said advanced bookings are well ahead of last year but does that apply to advanced book load factors as well more on an occupancy basis? And if so how do you arrive at just 2% yield guidance with higher bookings and higher prices? Thanks.
When we say bookings are ahead we are talking about booked load factors or occupancy onboard the ship.
So you can say it's sort of like a let's call it a capacity-adjusted metric.
So we are definitely looking at occupancy and we are looking at cabin occupancy.
Now prices are ahead.
We talked about that but we have only recently seen pricing turn positive as Arnold had discussed.
And so overall we had indicated we are slightly ahead and so we do have to see a continuation of this improvement for us to achieve our overall 2% yield guidance in the net ticket yield basis.
So with that in mind and also tempered by the macroeconomic and geopolitical issues we think we gave you our best guess it's a 2% yield guidance but we hope we are being conservative and do better.
3% yield guidance.
3% sorry.
Forgot about the accounting re-class apologize.
Right okay.
Thanks.
And then just as a follow-up separate question here are you comfortable taking on incremental debt to fund the buyback? And assuming you have $4 billion in CapEx for next year correct me if that's not the right number plus about $1 billion for the dividend.
It would seem like you would have to take on more debt if you want to buy back stock.
So can you just help us understand how you are thinking about that? Thanks guys.
Sure.
Okay well it's a couple of factors that we are putting here.
First of all if you go back to 2015 and you look at what we did we had in 2015 about $2 billion of free cash flow.
We returned $800 million in the form of dividends.
By the end of the year we had only returned $300 million in the form of share buyback.
So we still - we returned $1.1 billion and we still as of year end have $900 million of free cash flow that we are expecting to return in 2016.
so we've got end - we also have significant free cash flow expected in 2017.
So we have plenty of opportunity to return free cash flow to shareholders.
And on top of that I think I've said this before over the long run if all we do is return free cash flow to shareholders because of the earnings over time we would delever.
So overall debt levels over the extended period of time can increase and we can maintain the same leverage ratios and return that cash flow to shareholders as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Katz with Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Hi everybody.
Good morning.
I have a couple questions.
First can you talk a little bit about the CSSC relationship and how you are preliminarily thinking about building out that relationship whether there's an opportunity to move some older ships into capacity there or if you are thinking about maybe newbuilds despite putting so much new capacity into China or maybe you haven't gotten to that point yet? Yes so first of all we had an original memorandum of understanding agreement that basically covered everything port development shipbuilding domestic cruise company ship-owning etc.
And we now have from that agreement executed a joint venture agreement around establishing a domestic brand together there.
So we're concepting that out with them.
Over time that brand whatever form it takes would include both ships transferred in existing ships as well as newbuilds over time.
And clearly CSSC being a shipbuilding entity is clearly interested eventually in building cruise ships.
And they also have an agreement with Fan Cantiere [ph] in development around shipbuilding.
So ultimately it would involve new ships and just keep in mind that the China market over time will probably like it is in almost every other consuming activity be the largest market in the world just from sheer numbers.
So over time China will be able to absorb many many many cruise ships.
So we are excited about it.
We are looking forward to developing it.
We are excited that that agreement is now reflected in China's national five-year plan showing their commitment to development of a cruise industry and to working with us and so we are really looking forward to the partnership.
Okay.
And then on some of the cost savings that you've talked about I know in the past you guys have talked about things like air.
But I'm curious if the next $75 million in cost savings that you mentioned earlier on the call are coming from new opportunities and maybe what those opportunities are.
We have efforts going on an ongoing basis so it's important for me with the organization that these aren't one-off projects.
Its ongoing underlying behavior communicating collaborating coordinating and so airlines we definitely have realized benefits from that and we'll continue to going forward.
In the area of food and beverage we are beginning to pick up momentum in that area across the brands as they collaborate with each other.
And it's not only on the cost savings side which was your question but it's also on the revenue-generating side in terms of how they package beverage packages how they are presented to the guests who presents them to the guests the incentives involved the timing and learning’s from that that actually help drive onboard revenue as well.
Other areas include technical which we are at the very beginning of.
There's huge opportunity in that area and we are not even - we've barely begun that one.
And there are a host of other areas as well.
Yes things like media buying and marketing port shore excursions.
I mean there's a long list of things.
We are working through them in a variety of phases because you can't accomplish everything at one time.
So we did a point last year $75 million to $80 million last year.
We are doing another $75 million this year and we hope to continue to be able to produce additional savings in 2017 and beyond.
And again it's not just a one-shot deal.
These are ongoing behaviors that constantly drive savings in the areas.
So it's not a one and done in the various areas but we are very excited about them especially excited about seeing the behavior and the enthusiasm of our various team members who are engaged in this and working together.
Okay.
And then lastly would you guys be kind enough to offer just capacity growth by quarter if you have it? It is 3.9% for the first quarter 1.8% for the second 3.9% for the third 4.3% for the fourth for a total of 3.5% on the year.
Excellent.
Thank you guys so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Just a couple here.
Arnold you had mentioned when you sort of started laying out your vision for the Company here of it's much easier to generate incremental revenue from your existing customer base.
Can you maybe give us an update as to where repeaters stand right now maybe just in North America and Europe? I know a lot of the new customers are coming from Asia but just in North America and Europe your customer base repeaters versus first-timers? And then as it relates to China how should we think about comps sitting net yields versus as you expand into new sourcing areas from China versus capacity? I guess if we had to break down your net yield outlook it sounds like it's going to be down a little bit given multiple factors are comps sitting at yields still looking pretty good? And then I guess do you have to lower a price for somebody that's a first-timer in China? Okay.
Well let me answer your first question with regards to just onboard revenue generation.
Could you repeat that again - the first part of your question? It relates mostly to… Oh first-timers… In US and Europe in particular.
Yes two disruptions for first-timers.
First there was a lot of capacity last year in the Caribbean a lot of capacity and to fill that capacity we had to have last year a lot of first-timers to fill out that capacity last year.
It was a major increase and I'm talking now 2014 okay in the Caribbean.
And so that expanded the base for the Caribbean.
You mentioned China already as being the other component.
Outside of those two dynamics the trends are pretty much the same as they have been in the past which is a smaller and smaller percentage of new to cruise only because the base is getting larger and that base grows and capacity isn't expanding dramatically.
So there's always a slight downward trend in number of new to cruise required if you don't have significant capacity increase in any other market.
So it's just an artifact of the numbers.
If you look at our total business though that's a little bit different because we have approaching 11 million individual guests a year and probably 3.4 million of those are new to cruise.
A large portion of that number - it used to be 2.7 million.
A large portion of that number is driven by China and as I mentioned that big expansion in 2014 of capacity in the Caribbean.
In regards to China we don't have like same city if that was what you were asking.
Our sourcing -- we expand the sourcing as we expand ships but the ports that they are selling from are the same and so Shanghai and basically Tianjin.
And so we are expanding the sourcing we are reaching further out into the China market for guests but in terms of -- the ports are pretty much the same.
Yes and Tim when you look at it same port year-over-year we are actually hoping to do better year-over-year in the yields but keep in mind as Arnold indicated we are looking at approximately a 50% 60% capacity increase in China.
So we are being cautious as I indicated in our guidance as we move forward into next year.
But remember overall that China yields are better than the fleet average.
It is only 5% of our overall business and it is a great market.
And so it's a unit growth story and the operating income in China is improving quite dramatically from 2015 to 2016.
Okay.
I guess with the questioning on China I was just trying to understand as the industry has entered the market you get the great prices and if you are growing penetration should you still get that same price because everybody is coming from the same base of not knowing what a cruise is.
So - or is it just trying to put a lot of capacity through a very tight funnel? Is that what's pulling the yields down? But I do get the thing that overall from a global mix standpoint this is still very very positive for yourselves and the industry.
Again there are some discontinuities potentially in the market because of the way the distribution channel operates and where we are chartering ships and what have you.
But philosophically our intent is for strong pricing in China and China is a place where we are profitable.
We intend to be profitable and if things started moving a different direction or prices plummeted too far then we would pace the growth and we would change destinations for the ships.
We don't have any interest in creating a market in China that's a big discount market or anything like that.
Okay great.
Thanks for the clarification.
But it's still above the fleet average.
Okay.
Thank you for the clarification and great year.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Milota with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning everyone.
Two model-related questions here.
Within your guidance have you assumed any buybacks and if so could you give us a dollar amount that's pegged there? And then secondly on the income statement what in the 3.10 to 3.40 EPS guidance what are you factoring in for the fuel derivative net impact to EPS? Thank you.
Sure.
We did not include any - we did not assume any additional buybacks in our guidance.
We had bought back a little over 8 million shares as of yesterday.
We did assume that in our guidance but we have not assumed any additional.
And as I did mention we probably still have another $900 million or $800 million from this point forward of free cash flow from last year that we can return to shareholders.
As far as the 3.10 to 3.40 the fuel derivative I think it was… It looks like about 200… No no no in 2016 it was $336 million of losses.
And that's on a net basis? Realized losses yes.
Okay.
And could you just confirm the dollar amount? So you did $300 million in buybacks in the fourth quarter and about $100 million or so here in the first quarter of '16? Yes something close to that.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McKenzie with Buckingham Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Congrats on the quarter.
I am wondering if you can talk a little bit or just update us a little bit on your port expansion in Asia just in general and when any potential new ports might come online.
And just tied to that how you would expect that to benefit the China part of your business.
Over time there's no question there's going to have to be additional ports in China and obviously there are a number of local entities in China working on that if we are focused on China.
To handle the volume in China there's actually going to have to be expansion in ports surrounding China as well so Taiwan Korea Japan.
It will be necessary to expand the capacity of those ports to handle the Chinese guests.
So that's all in discussion and under analysis and development and it is definitely going to be required as is expanding the cruise terminals in Shanghai and in Tianjin and points nearby there.
Basically those same cities but different locations for the terminals.
So all of that is underway.
It's all going to take some time but with the pace of things keep in mind we can only build so many ships a year because there's only so many shipyards.
There's demand right now everywhere in the world for cruising so you are only going to move so many ships from other markets into the China market.
So there is a natural pace to this that exists because again of the artifacts of the construct with shipyards and demand elsewhere in the world.
So we are working diligently and I'm sure others are too and looking at different ports in China as well as working with ports in Asia throughout Asia where the Chinese would want to sail to.
I guess kind of what I'm wondering is if the ports would represent a capacity constraint to that part of the world because as you think about outbound travel of China doubling by 2020 just given the macro volatility that statistic is perhaps something less than that but I'm guessing cruise ports aren't going to double by 2020.
I'm just wondering if you can just… They probably won't.
You are absolutely right.
There is a bit of a constraint.
But the other thing to think about is fly cruise for the Chinese which helps demand in all the rest of the world markets.
So the bulk of those 100 million tourists today are flying out to somewhere and so fly cruise for the Chinese to Europe to North America to Alaska to the Caribbean they become a huge source market for existing itineraries and that will be part of the opportunity as well.
I see.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Assia Georgieva with Affinity Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and congratulations on the great results.
I had a couple of quick questions.
Q1 is going to be probably a little bit stronger then Q2 and that's probably because you have much more of an exposure to the Caribbean in Q2 Europe may be somewhat weaker.
We probably are still close to the Paris events and is it fair to assume that it's not going to be a bell curve sequentially Q1 through the rest of the year and that Q2 might be a slight downward blip? The reason that Q1 was better has a lot to do with the comparison to the prior year.
It's got more favorable comparisons because the second third and fourth quarter of last year were up more than the first quarter.
So it's a little bit on the prior-year comparison.
But your point is well taken.
We talked about the Caribbean doing very well talked about it being booked well-ahead.
It's at nicely higher prices and as a result of that the first quarter we do expect to be a little bit better than the remainder of the year in terms of the net revenue yield.
Thank you David.
And the second question is more of a philosophical question if you will.
It seems that a lot of the newbuilds that are going to be headed to China in 2016 and 2017 and that's on an industry-wide basis are going to spend if they can the European summer season in Europe.
Is that because you are trying to take advantage of that strong season despite the very good yields that you are getting in China? We can't speak for others.
We can only speak for ourselves and for us our first newbuild going into China will be the Majestic Princess in 2017 with our Princess Cruise Lines.
And our focus is to get her into China she's purpose-built for China.
She does do a little bit in Med.
And she does a little bit of Med but the ships are built in Europe and have to be trans located over to their destination market.
So in our case she will do some inaugural stuff in Europe simply as a way to make her way over to China.
Okay.
Take care and again congratulations.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
David… Operator I guess we'll take one more question at this point.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Brian Egger with Bloomberg.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
I just wanted to parse the language a little bit on your 2016 yield outlook.
So in September you had said that first-half cumulative bookings were well-ahead on lower constant dollar prices and now I think are saying first three quarters they are well-ahead on slightly higher constant currency prices.
So I just wanted to know if that generalization would be the same if you had revised that in constant dollar terms – just make there's no change in significance there.
Yes the most important thing if I go back we were behind in constant currency and as we said for the last three quarters prices were up and now we are ahead.
And so it's been a good booking quarter for us good volumes higher prices as Arnold indicated an improving pricing trend and that's why we are forecasting the yield improvement.
It was something we had expected would occur and it has occurred over the last 13 weeks.
But the difference isn't in the terminology -- or in the metric of constant dollar versus constant currency.
The difference is actually in the bookings.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey look everyone I want to thank you all for being on the call.
Thank you for helping us celebrate what was really a great year.
Happy holidays to everyone and I'll be a little unprofessional and say happy birthday to our Chief Financial Officer here.
It's David Bernstein's birthday today so David happy birthday.
Hey everyone thank you very much and happy holidays.