Good afternoon.
My name is Ginger and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coeur d’Alene Mines First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Tony Ebersole Director of Corporate Communications you may begin your conference.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss the company’s first quarter 2011 results.
This call is also being broadcast live on the Internet through our website at www.coeur.com where we have posted slides to accompany our prepared remarks.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available for one week following today’s call.
On the call today are Dennis Wheeler Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mitchell Krebs Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Leon Hardy Senior Vice President of Operations; and Don Birak Senior Vice President of Exploration.
Any forward-looking statements made today by management come under securities legislation of the United States and Canada and involve a number of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please see our full cautionary statement on slide two.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Tony.
Welcome to you all and thank you for joining us today.
We’re very pleased to showcase to you today another quarter of solid performance driven by the combination of production from our three long-life silver and gold mines and from the new realm of precious metal prices that despite recent volatility remains strong based on sound supply and demand fundamentals.
With one month of second quarter results now behind us we are seeing even stronger production and cash flows which is the trend we expect to continue throughout 2011.
The important takeaway for you today is that we will produce 20 million ounces of silver and 250 000 ounces of gold in 2011.
Despite the recent volatility current prices remain well above our first quarter average realized prices of $31.27 per silver and $1 374 per ounce of gold which underpin our confidence in the remainder of the year.
Achievements during this most recent quarter: net sales of $199.6 million; $90.1 million of operating cash flow; adjusted earnings of $37.5 million representing $0.42 per share; 4.1 million ounces of silver along the 53 130 ounces of gold.
Average cash operating cost were $8.36 per ounce of silver.
With silver and gold prices expected at Coeur to remain at newly established levels we are on track to the company’s best year ever by a wide margin with record cash flows and the total stated production of approximately 30 million silver equivalent ounces.
We’re moving along the schedule with our expanded production plan and mine life at our long time flagship Rochester silver and gold mine in Nevada.
It’s on schedule to start adding new ounces of production in the fourth quarter for at least eight more years with plenty of exploration potential remaining.
Silver prices have raised about 20% this year and our $37.28 per ounce this morning up $1.46.
During the first quarter of last year silver averaged $16.84 per ounce compared to $31.27 per ounce in this year’s first quarter.
It’s exciting that silver is benefiting from the dual role this essential metal plays in the world today as both an investment and industrial metal.
Although recent momentum in the silver market has been slowed by the 84% that 84% increase in margin requirements in three separate hikes in just the last two weeks the fundamentals for silver remained solid.
Clearly investment demand has been the single biggest reason for silver’s upward move.
Silver ETFs added 120 million ounces to their holdings during 2010 which now stand at approximately 547 million ounces worldwide.
This is remarkable considering the total global production of silver in 2010 with 735 million ounces.
While investment demand has exploded it’s important to note that industrial demand grew 21% in 2010 versus 29% as a result of emerging market demand for products containing silver and importantly due to a growing and diverse set of new uses per silver.
This includes a robust increase in the manufacture of electronic context in uses like rMOBILES not simply our response to an increase in the volume of rMOBILES made but also because the number of end users for silver in cars is continuing to expand.
The use of silver in photovoltaic cells for alternative energy is dramatically increasing.
And global industrial demand is now projected to grow another 36% to 665 million ounces by just 2015.
Average gold prices also continue to set new highs with today’s price of $1508 per ounce up $11.40.
During the first quarter of last year gold was $1104 compared to $1374 per ounce in this year’s first quarter a significant 25% increase.
Like silver gold continues its upward march.
Based on factors such as the weakening dollar Middle East political instability inflation concerns sovereign debt in the euro zone and a continued bias towards what appears to be lose monetary policy.
I’ll talk more on the outlook for this year for Coeur in a few minutes.
But now I’d like to ask Mitch to join me to comment on our first quarter financial results.
Thanks Dennis.
We had the best first quarter in company history in terms of production sales and cash flow all of which continue to climb in the current quarter.
With the strong April behind us we’re pleased to see our cash balance now exceed $100 million a material junk from $64 million at the end of March.
On slide nine you can see our first quarter metal sales of $199.6 million it was about double last year’s first quarter about half of this increase is due to higher production rates especially of gold now extending in its operating while the other half is attributable to higher metal prices.
Based on our full-year production guidance and year-to-date average prices of $36 an ounce for silver and $1424 an ounce for gold 2011 metal sales for Coeur are on track to exceed $1 billion.
On slide 10 you can see the first quarter-adjusted earnings was $37.5 million or $0.42 per share which nearly equal adjusted earnings for the entire year last year.
This first quarter result is the substantial increase compared to the same period a year ago when adjusted earnings totaled just $1.7 million.
On a U.S.
GAAP basis first quarter net income was $12.5 million compared to a net loss of $12.9 million in last year’s first quarter and a net loss of $5.1 million in the prior quarter.
We also continued our upward trend in operating cash flow reporting $90.1 million in the recent quarter again based on our full-year production guidance and year-to-date average prices well over $500 million of operating cash flow is expected to be generated in 2011.
Our confidence in this full-year performance is based on three main drivers.
Palmarejo is now full stride with the record start to the second quarter we’re seeing increased gold production from Kensington and Rochester is expected to contribute new silver and gold ounces beginning in the fourth quarter.
Our capital expenditures continued to decline as planned now that the major investments in our new mines are completed.
We saw 40% decline in CapEx from the fourth quarter and just $15.9 million in the first quarter.
We still anticipate full-year CapEx of around $120 million.
We took advantage of our strong operating cash flow and low CapEx to aggressively repay outstanding obligations especially short-term obligations reduce stables and eliminate the remaining Mitsubishi gold leases in the first quarter.
The company’s working capital as of March 31 reached a solid $71.4 million compared to its deficit of $4.5 million at year-end.
Also as shown on the graph on slide 14 our number of shares issued has remained consistent now that the company is self-sustaining from internally generated free cash flow.
Leon will now take us through the company’s operating results.
Thanks Mitch.
In the first quarter the company completed the necessary modifications to stabilize performance at our anchor mines.
This was reflected in the start of the second quarter with very strong operational results in April.
The company produced 4.1 million ounces silver in the first quarter 1.7 million ounces from Palmarejo and the same from San Bartolomé.
On the gold production side shown on slide 17 we produced 53 130 000 ounces in the quarter down slightly from the fourth quarter but more than double what the company produced in the last year’s first quarter.
We saw higher gold production in April and remain comfortable with our full-year production targets at both Kensington and Palmarejo.
Palmarejo produced 1.7 million ounces of silver and 23 676 ounces of gold in the quarter and an average cash cost of $4.33 per silver ounce.
Metal sales at the mine were $88.1 million with operating cash flow of $48.8 million.
Our full-year forecast is (inaudible) by the record results in April where the mine produced over 800 000 ounces of silver and 11 650 000 ounces of gold.
We are confident at Palmarejo we will reach our target of 9 million ounces of silver and 120 000 ounces of gold.
San Bartolomé produced 1.7 million ounces of silver at an average cash cost of $9.13 per ounce during the quarter.
Metal sales were $46.1 million and operating cash flow was $18.4 million at the mine.
We are confident San Bartolomé will achieve the target of 7 million ounces of silver.
As many of you are aware there were erroneous reports out of Bolivia regarding the nationalization of the country’s mines.
Unfortunately this failed to clarify that these comments did not pertain to San Bartolomé.
We want to emphasize that the government of Bolivia at the highest levels including Mining Minister Pimentel have affirmed our legal ownership rights at San Bartolomé.
Also and importantly both our unions and mining cooperatives continue to buoy strong support for the company and San Bartolomé.
So mining operations at San Bartolomé continue to operate as usual.
At Kensington the mine produced 23 676 ounces of gold in the quarter with metal sales of $48 million and operating cash flow of $13.7 million.
Production was down from the previous quarter due to lower head grade as mining transitioned into new areas.
Higher grade zones are now contributing Coeur to the mill leading to higher production rates.
At Rochester we expect to start holing and stacking ore on the new leach pad in early July and anticipate ounces to begin coming out of this new pad in the fourth quarter.
This is supported by current reserves of 28 million silver ounces and 247 000 gold ounces.
Rochester contains an additional 109 million ounces of silver resources and 777 000 ounces of gold resources which we expect to further increase production levels and mine life at Rochester.
I’ll now turn the call over to Don for our exploration updates.
Thanks Leon.
Good morning everyone.
Our exploration strategy this year is focused on adding to resources and reserves at Palmarejo and Kensington and supporting the expansion of mining activities at Rochester.
Our 2011 budget for all exploration expense and capitalize is over $20.7 million that includes over 82 000 meters of new drilling.
Thus far the 2011 program is off to a good start with over 14 500 meters of new drilling completed which will accelerate considerably in the second quarter and into the third.
In addition to the focus I mentioned we will again drill at Rochester and Joaquin and are now collecting samples from new trenches and pits at San Bartolomé to expand and upgrade mineral resources and reserves.
This past quarter at Palmarejo we completed over 9 900 meters of drilling most of that around the main mine area.
We have some encouraging new drill results from Tucson and Chapotillo.
One of the best results from Hole 149 shown on the map return average silver grades of 1174 grams per ton silver and 7.2 grams per ton of gold over nearly 4 meters.
The map in the upper left of the slide shows five horizons to be drilled this year of surface and underground.
Shifting now to Guadalupe in the southeast section of the Palmarejo District the slide shows a long section with our year-end 2010 mineral reserves outlined in dark ring and it’s lined by areas of additional mineral resources in lighter green.
Color-coded drill hole pierce points has an intersective to Guadalupe zone are shown.
It’s important to note that while we are at the sign Guadalupe to over 68 million contained ounces of total silver and over 900 000 total gold ounces deposit is still open for expansion.
Many of the opportunities to add resources and reserves are readily reachable with surface drilling shown on this slide.
The deeper extensions and some tighter space in-built targets will be drilled to underground positions.
We are driving our road from Palmarejo to Guadalupe now expect Coeur a north portal at about the 1200-meter level in July.
Now let’s move to Kensington Southeast Alaska where we have our second largest program underway.
Late last year we commenced drilling on the Raven Vein a gold-bearing share vein similar to other such veins in the current Kensington Mine.
Raven occurs about 2000 – do west to the Kensington Mine and it’s easily access to the main tunnel from the north side.
The significance of the Raven discovery is its high-grade nature and demonstrates the potential for additional similar structures in the market.
Here in long section looking where we show some initial modeling of the drilling we completed in 2010 and in the first quarter of this year.
We have now completed the first mineral resource (inaudible) property located in Santa Cruz Argentina about 70 kilometers north of our Martha Mine.
We’re now focused on adding to the resources and beginning work on a feasibility stay.
This initial resource of approximately 68 million silver ounces and 80 000 gold ounces prepared by an independent engineering firm is metal prices up $1320 per ounce of gold and silver respectively.
Mineral resources are summarized in the appendix of this presentation.
These ounces were discovered and defined for less than $7 million in expiration cost or around $0.10 per silver ounce to 2010.
I’ll turn the call back to now to Dennis for closing comments.
Thank you Don.
We’re looking ahead to record-breaking year for Coeur in terms of silver and gold production sales earnings and cash flow now that our three anchor mines are all in production for their first time.
We also have the contribution of new silver and gold production from Rochester starting in the fourth quarter.
Our full-year 2011 production forecast remains a record 20 million ounces of silver and 250 000 ounces of gold.
We also expect to report progress on adding to reserves at Palmarejo and Kensington growing the resource base on our large land package of Palmarejo and supporting the mining activities at Rochester and also advancing the Joaquin project.
So we thank you all for joining us on the call today and now we’ll be happy to answer your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question is from the line of Jeffrey Thorp.
Hi Dennis hi Mitch congratulations on another solid quarter.
Thanks Jeff.
Hey Jeff.
Jeffrey Thorp Couple of questions.
Just want to make sure that I heard correctly that you guys have $100 million of cash now so it looks like you’ve generated $34 million in April.
And so I guess my question is given that you’re generating so much free cash flow what do you plan to do with it? Well Mitch mentioned that we’re currently forecasting free cash flow of approximately $0.5 billion this year.
And that money will be devoted to growing the business of Coeur everywhere from acquiring further greenfield exploration properties for the company.
We’re actively looking at development stage properties and operating mines.
And of course it’s only appropriate that we take a good look at our shareholders in terms of dividend policy for the company.
Jeffrey Thorp Great.
And then second question is I’m just wondering what sort of cost pressures you’re seeing on the consumable side or input side of your business? Well costs are rising.
There is no question about that but they’re not raising anywhere comparable to these new paradigms in pricing that we do expect to continue.
We will continue to focus I can assure you on how to bring to further cost efficiencies to the company in terms of reducing our cash cost as we go through the balance of the year.
Jeffrey Thorp Thank you so much.
And our next question is from the line of Andrew Kaip.
Hi Dennis hey Mitch.
Look I’ve got just one question regarding Kensington and that is – that costs were higher than what we were expecting I think the Street was expecting at Kensington.
And can you give us some detail on how costs are going to – how costs are going to be for the remainder of the year? Are we going to see those costs come down or should we be modeling higher costs at the operation to the remainder of this year? They were higher and I’m going to ask Mitch to break down our expectations on costs.
Yeah.
Hi Andrew.
We saw in the first quarter especially from the beginning of the first quarter to the end of the first quarter starting to pair off some of the field startup related costs there at Kensington things like equipment rentals outside services freights things that still holdovers from the initial ramp-up pace there at Kensington.
So from January to the end of the quarter we’re seeing a trend that is pointing favorably.
Those costs will continue to come down throughout the remainder of the year.
The target is by the end of the year to be around $600 an ounce obviously as the denominator increases as we see great recover from first quarter levels that will obviously push that cost per ounce down to those ranges as we look forward throughout the rest of the year.
Okay.
And then on the production side you indicate that production was lower due to lower grades and that April production is showing the capacity to move into higher-grade portions of the deposits.
I’m just wondering whether you’re at the point where your production schedule is stabilizing and we should expect more – we should expect grades to remain at those higher levels or should we forecast slightly lower production or slightly lower production in the third quarter as you then sequence into another backfilling program where there is more emphasis on backfilling? Andrew I’ll ask Leon to handle that question.
Andrew we’re going through a cycle cycling pattern at Kensington.
We came out of last year without sufficient backfill capacity we brought that up in the first quarter we had cost to backfill up and I don’t feel that the rest of the year will have a shortfall and backfill.
So our higher-grade zones as well as the other zones in the mine will be all be blended in on an equal basis for the rest of the year.
Okay.
So we should be expecting much more stable production from Kensington moving forward? That’s correct.
All right.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Okay our next question is from Patrick (inaudible).
Hello can you hear me? We can.
Fine Patrick.
Hi I just wanted to get your opinion updated opinion on hedging how potential production this year next year and just down the road obviously silver has been very volatile this year I just wanted to get your thoughts in terms of locking in some of this cash or make it more predictable if you will leased on a partial basis? We will not hedge silver at Coeur that’s been our policy for some time we don’t anticipate change in it.
I’m fully convinced that our shareholders want to have the volatility behind the silver prices that translates to our shares and that’s the policy we intend to keep.
That’s certainly definitive.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question is from the line of John Bridges.
Good morning Dennis everybody.
I just wondered if you could give us a bit more color on the Joaquinproject and how you can see that developing and how margins interact with Martha? I am going ask Don Birak to jump in here John.
Thank you.
Good morning good afternoon John.
how are you doing? Fine.
Thank you.
Joaquin is on a track now precisely completed the first no resource on its property we are finishing up with some drilling on both La Negra and moving to La Marocha and we are starting is an internal studies to produce eventually I think facility on this.
We’ll go through the engineering and metallurgical work again add new metallurgical and engineering parameters and analysis to the study and get to the point where we can see this is going to produce for core a new line.
Obviously would be synergies with Martha in terms of management and running the project beyond that we’ll look at all opportunities to lever of what we have in Martha.
How would you characterize the mine also cost per ton do you think you could achieve from this thing? I think it’s a little bit premature to put that out.
We just completed the resource estimate and of course that had some assumptions about cost for the Whittle pit scoping study or scoping analysis and that will be – we’ll crystallize that in the tech report that we’re going to be filing here within about 45 days.
Okay.
That will be an interesting read.
Are there enough – any other veins on the side? Yes there are John.
We’re drilling on extensions of LaMorocha to the northwest of that zone and we also see potential to expand La Negra to the east and of course the depth extensions of both particularly LaMorocha look quite good.
But I still remain very excited about this property it’s a large property and we really want to explore the southeast portion of this large property.
Okay.
Excellent.
Thanks a lot Don.
Thank you John.
And your next question is from line of Adam Brooks.
Yes real quickly can you maybe give us the progress in the quarter as far as times of Palmarejo was done a little bit sequentially maybe you could tell us how things performed from January to February to March maybe even into April? Yeah Mitch here.
I will ask Leon to take that.
Leon? Okay.
Thanks.
Actually went into the first quarter with a strict blending plan where we actually restrict the tons going through the mill.
As we came out of the quarter our tons have been growing steadily we’re on-target for April and we expect the rest of the year to be the same.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Andrew Kaip.
Hi.
Next just one further question can you remind us what metal price assumptions you are using for your estimate of 500 million of operating cash flow? Yes sure Andrew with $36 now per silver and 14.24 for gold.
All right.
Thank you.
Yeah.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
Thank you operator.
We’d like to thank all of you for joining us as we report close first quarter results today.
And we look forward to keeping you timely wise the major developments within the company and look forward to have new joiners for the next quarterly conference call.
Thanks again.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for participating.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kelly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coeur d’Alene Mines second quarter earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
(Operator instructions) I will now turn the conference over to Wendy Yang to begin.
Thank you Kelly.
Welcome everyone.
I am Wendy Yang and I joined Coeur last month as Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss the company’s second quarter six-month results.
You will find Coeur listed CDE on the New York Stock Exchange and CDM on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
This call is also being broadcast live on the Internet through our website at www.coeur.com.
We have posted slides to accompany our remarks that you will find on the website.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available from our website for one week following today’s call.
We will be discussing forward-looking information today.
So we caution our audience that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please review our cautionary statements shown here and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry described in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
On the call today are Mitchell Krebs our new President and CEO; Leon Hardy Senior Vice President of Operations; and Don Birak Senior Vice President of Exploration.
With that I will turn it over to Mitch.
Thanks Wendy.
Hello and thank you for joining us today.
I have been with on these calls many times in the past as the company’s CFO and this will be my first as Coeur’s new President as CEO.
I look forward to saying a few words about the company’s priorities and direction going forward near the end of the call.
But first I want to tell you about the really solid second quarter Coeur just had.
Our outstanding financial performance with large jumps in quarterly sales in our earnings and operating cash flow our operating costs per ounce were down 58% to $3.39 per silver ounce.
Palmarejo had record a second quarter all time best with 2.4 million ounces of silver and over 333 300 ounces of gold with operating cost at Palmarejo negative $3.68 per silver ounce.
This consistent performance out of San Bartolomé with 1.7 million ounces of silver produced almost identical to the first quarter of the year and our operating cost there were about $8.73 an ounce in the second quarter.
The expansion down underway at Rochester our longest running mine is now back in production and stacking over on the newly constructed leach pad like someone from Rochester said this morning it’s good to hear that crushers are running again.
And there is a 67% increase in our second half exploration program which is intended to increase resources and reserves near our existing operations and Don Birak will talk more about that in a few minutes.
We expect to produce 19.5 million to 20.5 million ounces of silver and 240 000 to 250 000 ounces of gold and we anticipate continued strong silver and gold prices during the second half of the year particularly with the unfolding EU issues and our relative events and challenges here in the U.S.
We have many initiatives underway at several of our operations but we expect to leave the higher second half production and lower cost and even stronger financial performance which Leon will describe in greater detail in a couple of minutes.
On slide five these improved second quarter results were due to the contributions from having all three of our core mines on line most significantly a very strong performance from our Palmarejo silver and gold mine in Mexico.
Before I go into further details there are two specific items I want to mention regarding our second quarter financials.
The first is on the income statement there is about $11 expense for pre-development costs this relates to Rochester pre-stripping activities.
Normally you see that capitalized in the CapEx line on the cash flow statement but because Rochester’s existing operations were required to expense that so there is $11 million expense on the P&amp;L that is worth about $20 million [ph] now and that’s something won’t be there in the third quarter as we progress into that mining and operations there.
The second is the difference between the ounces we produced in the second quarter and the ounces we actually sold.
We produced 4.8 million ounces of silver and sold 4.1 million.
We produced 60 000 ounces of gold and sold about 50 000.
This is nearly timing related just a function when we shift metal from our operations and it is now all of that metal is sold here in the third quarter but that had a significant impact in terms of sales and our earnings about $45 million of sales that didn’t take place in the second quarter that will show up in third so that’s worth mentioning as well.
Getting back to the slide there on slide 5 starting with the top left chart we continue to see quarterly increases in our realized silver and gold prices.
Our average realized prices were $39.11 per silver ounce and $1504 per gold ounce.
This is an increase of 111% for silver and 28% for gold compared to last year’s second quarter.
And as you’ve probably seen this morning we are above $17 000 on gold and silver is again close to the $40 an ounce mark.
Moving to the chart on the right metal sales reached a record $231 million in the second quarter which is up 16% over the first quarter and $129% higher than the second quarter of last year.
Silver contributed about 69% of the company’s total metal sales while the remainder was derived from the sale of gold.
For the first six months metal sales were a record $431 million up 128% compared to the first six months of last year.
For the full year of 2011 we expect to generate approximately $1 billion in net metal sales and over $0.5 billion in operating cash flow based on our expected full-year production guidance and assuming that we have the same precious metals prices in the second half of the year that we averaged during the first half of the year which are about $35 an ounce for silver and about $1450 an ounce for gold.
Looking at the chart on the lower left we generated operating cash flow of $116 million in the second quarter that’s a 29% jump over the first quarter and about five-fold increase over the last year’s second quarter.
Also adjusted earnings totaled $58 million during the second quarter which is up 55% over the prior quarter and a significant improvement over last year’s second quarter when the company had an $8.9 million adjusted loss.
But we expected higher production and lower unit costs in the second half of the year especially at Palmarejo Rochester Martha and Kensington we expect our second half metal sales operating cash flow and adjusted earnings to exceed first half levels.
On slide six it shows improving financial metrics being driven by our higher production metal sales and cash flow.
Starting again at the top left hand chart cash and equivalents stood at $107 million as of June 30<sup>th</sup> which is about 66% increase over the end of the prior quarter and more than one-and-a-half times higher than 12 months ago.
This obviously does not take into account the ounces produced but not sold during the quarter that I mentioned earlier.
Turning to our CapEx on the top right we expect to show a year-over-year decline in CapEx once again.
We have slightly raised our 2011 full-year CapEx guidance from $120 million to $130 to $140 million.
This additional capital will fund several capital projects at Kensington that are designed to increase productivity and reduce cost.
Kensington is slowly but steadily settling into light as an operating mine but we still have work to do there.
Production for 2011 is going to end up being a little bit over 100 000 ounces.
This reduced production level for 2011 is mostly due to lower than expected grades which in turn is keeping cost per ounce as much too high levels.
The additional CapEx being invested at Kensington in the second half of the year and into 2012 is designed to increase production and reduce costs by accelerating underground development activity in higher grade areas getting the underground (inaudible) plant operational so the mine can have more flexibility in where it mines and completing several surface facilities in order to better support the operation.
As throughput increases and the average grade rises cost per ounce should trend downwards during the remainder of the year and as we head into 2012.
Our total shares outstanding remain constant as we seek to increase our per share value for shareholders and the bottom right reflects the company’s growing balance sheet strength as cash rises due to free cash flow from our operations.
Thanks Mitch.
Leon Hardy This is Leon Hardy.
Let’s take a closer look at second production in the charts at the top of the slide.
Our second quarter production of 4.8 million ounces of silver was up about 16% over the second quarter of 2010.
Palmarejo accounted for approximately 50% of the silver production in the second quarter.
Pulp production was a record 600700 ounces.
40% or 26 000 gold ounces came from Kensington which began operations a year ago and over 33 000 ounces were produced at Palmarejo.
Pulp production was up 14% over the prior quarter and 162% compared to last year’s second quarter.
Our consolidated cash operating costs were $3.39 per ounce of silver in the second quarter which was a 58% reduction from the year-ago quarter.
Our full year company-wide forecast for cash operating costs are $5.75 per silver ounce and $8.50 per gold ounce at Kensington.
As Mitch said Palmarejo had a record second quarter and is hitting its stride.
Palmarejo produced 2.4 million ounces of silver and 33 400 of ounces of gold at cash operating cost of negative $3.68 per ounce after the gold buy product credit [ph] Metal sales at Palmarejo were $124 million during the quarter; operating cash flow was $79 million; capital expenditures were $10 million.
The excellent results are attributable to higher silver and gold grades and an increase of nearly 6% in silver recovery rates to a 78% average in the quarter.
This is due to less oxide material as the open pit gets deeper and continued blending improvements.
During the second quarter increased throughput and sustained silver recovery rates are expected to drive increased production and continue to lower cost.
San Bartolomé continued the form consistently.
The mine produced 1.7 million ounces of silver at a cash operating cost of $8.73 per ounce.
Metal sales were $56 million with operating cash flow of $41 million.
Capital expenditures during the second quarter were $3 million.
Kensington has now completed one year of operation.
For the second quarter 25 800 ounces of gold was produced at a cash operating cost of $924 per ounce.
Quarterly metal sales were $26 million.
Operating cash flow totaled $11 million.
Capital expenditures were $7 million.
As Mitch mentioned we will increase the number of tons milled throughout the remainder of the year in order to maximize full-year production which we expect will be approximately 100 000 ounces.
As we increase throughput and see improvements in the average grade costs per ounce are expected to trend downward during the remainder of the year.
The Rochester expansion in on schedule.
We began holing and stacking ore on the new leach pad in late July which will lead to higher silver and gold production at Rochester in the fourth quarter.
During the second quarter residual leaching activities at Rochester produced 333 400 silver ounces and 1 400 gold ounces.
Cash operating costs were $4.34 per ounce of silver net of gold by product credit.
Metal sales in the quarter were $14.4 million.
Operating cash flow was negative $2.3 million which is a reflection of the fact that all pre-stripping costs related to the expansion at Rochester are expensed rather than capitalized.
And capital expenditures totaled $4.2 million during the quarter.
Considerable upside potential remains at Rochester as we begin to see the impact of this initial 50 million ton leach pad.
We will begin to focus our efforts on recovering additional economic material from further exploration and development of large mineral resource based at the mine.
Don will highlight the exploration potential out of our Rochester property including the adjacent Nevada Packard Bay.
This is Don Birak.
The pace of our drilling ramped up considerably in the second quarter and will continue into the second half of the year with over 66 000 meters of drilling plan as compared to 43 000 meters in the first half of the year a 50% increase in our exploration drilling for the second half of the year.
To support the accelerated drilling we have increased our second half exploration budget by 67% or $40 million for our total 2011 budget of $23 million 29% increase over 2010 levels.
This invest expected to continue into 2012 reflects the prospective nature of our property and will help extend mine life by adding to mineral resources and reserves.
Adding new ounces near our existing infrastructure represents an excellent way to deploy the company’s cash flow and generate value for the shareholders.
Starting with Palmarejo we drilled now 27 000 meters during the first half of the year largely around immediate Palmarejo mine area followed by Guadalupe and La Patria.
Together these three historical deposits represent just 10% of the total Palmarejo land holdings.
Palmarejo mine itself spans an area over 2 000 meters by 1 500 meters in size and includes both surface and underground mine operations.
Mineralization at all five of this indefinite strike and the next months and into 2012 we will continue drilling at these areas and on new zone veins and stackwork discovered in the hanging of the 76 ore zone.
In more detail this image shows the location image on 16 shows the location of the drilling completed this year at Palmarejo and some key results.
Results from drilling at Tucson and Chapotillo two of five zones that make up the Palmarejo mine area bode well for expansion of surface mining activities.
In the second quarter we recommenced drilling at Guadalupe in the east central part of the district and started drilling on La Patria which is located about three kilometers to the west of Guadalupe.
This La Patria drilling is the first such program conducted by COEUR since acquiring Palmarejo in 2007.
Thus far our drilling there has encountered multiple near-surface closer silver mineralized vein.
We are pleased with this initial core drilling and results suggest the potential for both surface and underground mining operations at La Patria.
Now let’s shift to Rochester a world-class silver and gold mine in Nevada where we have produced over 128 million ounces and over 1.4 million gold ounces since production commenced in 1986.
This image shows the Rochester and Nevada Packard deposits some key production infrastructure and several promising exploration targets.
In the second quarter we commenced drilling on the LM and NWR targets at the northwest and the Rochester and also at Nevada Packard.
These areas have good potential to grow our resources reserves and will be prime areas for drilling in the coming months.
Current now reserves at 48 million short tons are all slated for processing in the new stage three leach pad.
However Rochester’s additional measured and indicated mineral resources stand at nearly 250 million short ton and over 21 million tons of inferred modeled using $1300 per ounce of gold and $20 per ounce of silver.
This large robust mineral resource and our new exploration targets are strong opportunities to expand reserves and the mine life further and we are currently conducting engineering and environmental studies towards that end.
Moving south I’m pleased to report that Coeur completed the first mineral resource estimate for the Joaquin silver and gold property in Argentina and while the technical report on sedar are discussed on the results.
The report finds – indicated a third mineral resources on two deposits La Negra and La Morocha at Joaquin.
We commenced destination drilling and other studies which are expected to lead to a feasibility study; old deposits we may open for expansion.
Joaquin property is twice the size of our Palmarejo property.
We only really explored a small part of this large 24 000 acre hectare property.
And with our (inaudible) efforts on both feasibility and the exploration funds.
To close now with some results in the Raven-style at Kensington.
The results from four new core holes were recently received shown on this long section slide 20 and related foot wall and hanging wall have potential to add meaningful high-grade tonnage to the Kensington mine plan.
In addition to more drilling at Raven in the coming months we will be testing some new targets which have potential for mineralization similar in style to the main Kensington deposit.
Thanks Don.
Slide 21 shows the map of our operations as well as a handful of silver exploration companies in North and South America in which Coeur has made strategic investments.
Year to date Coeur has made $17.9 million of these investments in five exploration companies.
This junior silver exploration companies have primary silver projects in Canada Mexico Chile Peru and Bolivia.
We’ll continue to evaluate other opportunities like these and make similar investments from time to time as we seek to build out a balanced pipeline of growth opportunities for the future.
And we remain bullish on the precious metals markets.
Both silver and gold remain among the best performing asset classes and the expectation by most experts is that this trend will continue; we share that view.
Investment demand through ETFs remain very strong for both metals.
Total ETF demand for silver is above 450 million ounces worldwide.
Industrial demand remains strong and the economy has continued to recover and emerging market is robust.
There continued to be strong investor demand for silver coming from both China and India.
And new uses for silver the most widely used industrial metal in applications for solar energy to wider electrical components within automobiles continues to grow.
The drivers behind gold’s record run are similar to silver.
Obviously the S&amp;P downgrade of the US credit rating will be key driver for gold as concerns about the US dollar sovereign credit issues both here in the US and in Europe and inflation.
This is driving investors to safe haven of gold and silver.
In July investors added a net $13.2 billion to the gold ETFs and we expect August ETF close to be even stronger.
In addition central banks continue to add to their holdings.
Year to date net purchases by the world’s central banks totaled 203.5 metric tons which is already 168% increase from 76 metric tons for all of 2010 Mexico Russia Thailand and South Korea.
So we believe that the fundamentals underline these strong metals prices will continue to support the market.
With these underlined strong metals markets and with our core lines all operating together in their first full year together we are looking forward to a record year for Coeur in terms of silver and gold production metal sales and adjusted earnings and cash flow.
We expect full year net metal sales approximately $1 billion and operating cash flow in excess of $500 million.
Our 2011 full year production forecast is unchanged at 19.5 million to 20.5 million ounces of silver and 240 000 to 250 000 ounces of gold.
And as we have mentioned we forecast full year average operating cost of about $5.75 per ounce of silver and Kensington’s cash cost per ounce of gold should average about $850 an ounce for the full year.
Our confidence in these full–year targets are based on five main drivers.
Palmarejo was operating stride with the mine plan calling for increased mill throughput and the silver recovery rate remaining high during the second half of the year.
Like Palmarejo San Bartolomé lives to be operating at full stride and on track for a solid consistent year.
And Rochester is expected to product additional silver and gold ounces from the leach pad started in the fourth quarter.
Although we have work to do at Kensington we expect higher production levels in the second half of the year and as cash operating costs continue to decline through the remainder of 2011 as we increase production and aggressively pursue opportunities to reduce costs at all of our mines.
As many of you are aware July – the company announced last (inaudible) its President and CEO and the appointment of our recent Lead Director Rob Mellor as the new non-Executive Chairman of the Board.
On behalf of our company we extend our gratitude and well wishes to Dennis Wheeler who we hired after 25 years of service as our CEO and 33 years as the Director at Coeur.
In my new role I see the company continuing on a trajectory we had put in place over the past few years.
That said there are things that we’ll change enhance and build upon with the objective of creating a true value creating primary silver company.
I’ve been dedicated professionally to Coeur for 16 years and I have seen it evolve from a small company to a $2.5 billion market cap company.
With the level of cash flow we are now generating I see tremendous upside potential for our shareholders.
We have a great set of assets and we will continue to build a balanced pipeline of new growth opportunities.
We have great people who are dedicated to the company’s success and are constantly working to team in bringing the best talent possible.
We have a great middle environment.
We are working hard to exploit that in every way possible.
That said we will always be mindful that we operate in a cyclical commodity business and we will strive to develop positions flexible and opportunistic.
We are on bit of a role here at Coeur and the company’s performance is improving with each quarter but that’s no reason to sit still.
I believe we can make Coeur into the premier company in this sector.
We need to sharpen our focus on delivering consistent performance at our existing mines while reducing cost everywhere we can.
We have talented General Managers at our properties who need large teams of dedicated employees as these people and these assets that are the engines that make this company run and outlook so promising.
We’re going to work hand in hand with these teams to extract as much value as possible from these operations.
So we have invested such significant resources over the past few years.
At the same time environmental stewardship safety and community relations are priorities for us.
We need to be a leader in these important aspects of our business if we want to truly be the premier company in our sector.
Although these aspects of the business don’t get a lot of attention from quarter to quarter this company will not succeed in creating value for its shareholders if it doesn’t get it right in these critical areas.
And our current operations begin to perform as consistently as we are beginning to see and as we expect and we are all already seeing this kind of performance at Palmarejo and San Bartolomé.
We must start to look forward and outward to grow.
We will grow in a disciplined accretive fashion that will always place value creation and return on capital as the main criteria when evaluating opportunities.
We will pursue organic opportunities like Rochester and the accelerated exploration program Don mentioned and we will pursue external opportunities that make sense and that we feel will create long-term value for our shareholders.
As our cash flow accumulates over time and cash position becomes more than sufficient to support these objectives the company and its Board will evaluate and implement a rational policy on how best to return capital to the company’s shareholders.
I’m very excited about the opportunity and our company’s bright future so is our management employees and Board of Directors.
We hope you our shareholders and stakeholders around the world share that excitement as we work hard to build a truly great company here.
Thank you for your time.
And operator we are ready for questions.
(Operator instructions) Your first question comes from Jeffrey Thorp with Sonoma Capital.
<br> Hi Mitch.
Congratulations on another excellent quarter.
Hi Jeff.
Thanks a lot.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First is you are producing a lot of cash probably even more significant if you include the inventory build.
And so my questions with respect to that are can you give me a little bit of information with respect to when the inventory will be converted to cash if it’s not already been done? And what you’re going to do with the cash that you’ve been producing? Are you considering paying down debt or paying a dividend? Yes all that milled that built-up in the second quarter and silver in the third quarter has now been sold so that will show up in our third quarter results which will then as you point out lead to a significant bump in our cash.
We highlighted a few priorities here on our call and for us it’s all about deploying that cash to the highest return opportunity available to us.
Exploration is probably at the top of that list that’s why we are increasing exploration as aggressively as we are in the second half of the year.
Right behind that I think the close second is organic opportunities like we have at Rochester not only this existing expansion with this new leach pad that’s now underway but future opportunities there that really represent high return relative risk growth opportunities for the company.
Those opportunities though Jeff I think this is where your question is pointing we can do all of those things and we are still going to be generating cash flow in excess of those priorities.
We will seek to reduce debt opportunistically but I think overall what you’ll see from us is a balanced approach some of the growth opportunities that we mentioned reductions in our debt and we want to maintain a sufficient cash balance so that we can withstand any potential hiccup in metals prices and any potential operational unanticipated hiccup.
Above and beyond that the dividend question return of capital question I think is where we next in line and that’s something that the Board will be evaluating here as the cash does accumulate in the second half of the year and as we enter 2012.
And I think returning capital to the shareholders is a 2012 event not a 2011 event but it is something that we are all very calm conduct and we will be on the front burner as we end the year and start 2012 with what should be a pretty significant cash balance.
Does that help you? And just one more question if it’s okay could you talk a little bit more about your guidance and the breakdown by mine and if you can and you may not want to or can’t be that specific with respect to Kensington I’m just curious what your cash flow guidance for that would be if you can make it? Yes Jeff walk through the production if you look at through the first six months of the year results and just eyeball those and compare those with the second half expectations at Palmarejo we did have a slow start to the year if you recall.
So production through first six months of the year was 4.1 million ounces will be well in excess of that in the second half of the year mostly on the silver and that maybe because silver recoveries in the first quarter were pretty slow.
We think this kind of cracked that nut and with that continuing to be consistent in the second half that silver production will be quite a bit higher in the second half.
Gold will be about the same in the second half as it was in the first half at Palmarejo.
San Bartolomé we’ll increase throughput a little bit and we will see a slightly higher second half first half was 3.5 million ounces; we will see that plus probably another couple of hundred ounces out of San Bartolomé in the second half.
The big ramp-ups for us are at Martha and at Rochester in the second half.
And the second half at Martha is really based on two – three things really.
One is they’ve now gotten into the Betty and Betty [ph] zones which will begin to contribute ore to Martha.
They’ve also expanded the mill capacity there from 240 tons a day to 480 tons a day.
That will allow them to process not only with the ore but also they are going to start reprocessing there at the site.
And so you see Martha through the first six months of the year 280 000 ounces of silver production is going to be a material increase there in the second half.
And at Rochester for obvious reasons with respect to the new leach pad the ongoing residual leaching generated 670 000 of silver in the first half of the year through the first half especially with fourth quarter there materially higher and that’s where we kind of break down our 19.5 million 20.5 million.
And on the gold side it’s much more straightforward story; we got about a little over 100 000 ounces.
At Kensington like we mentioned we’ve got – if you take the first half of Palmarejo of 61 000 ounces that gives you up to a little over a 120 000 ounces there so that’s 220 000.
And then you’ve got Rochester making up the bulk of the difference on the gold side.
So that’s sort of how our guidance breaks out.
Thanks very much and continued success.
Thanks Jeff.
Your next question is from Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.<br> Good afternoon or good morning over there gentlemen.
Mitch just following up a little bit on your opportunities at Rochester could you talk to the point as to the cycle time for – between the stacking and when you are going to see first silver out of that leach pad? And then you mentioned in your press release that there could be about 200 million tons of additional mineral resources whereas you are indicating above 48 million of mineral resources in your presentation so if you could just kind of scope out how big you think Rochester could be and what the timing would be to put in more leach pads into services? Yes sure.
Hi Jorge.
I’ll take the second question; Leon will handle the first question.
Like you said Jorge and like we said in our comments this additional leach pad that’s been completed as the capacity for about 50 million tons of ore lease stack down there and that’s the material that is currently listed as reserves at Rochester of about 28 million ounces of silver and about 250 000 ounces of gold and too that will be mined over the next seven years or so off of this new pad.
Where things I get really interesting Rochester is that in the resource categories measured and indicated and inferred if you add those off together you’ve got over 225 million tons of additional mineralization there at Rochester primarily in the vault of the exiting pit that has been created since 1986.
And so yes you compare the 50 million ton capacity of this initial pad to that total size of material.
We’ve got another four of these things that we can feasibly get into underleach and into production.
There is a wide time there as we seek the permitting required for additional leach pads and there is probably about a three-year lag associated with that.
But you can kind of see how this steer step back into becoming a real significant asset for us and that said not are we enthusiastic about what we’ve got going on there and now and the impact that’s going to have in the fourth quarter and over the next few years but really the bigger potential there is what still remains.
Leon do you want to handle the other question about when that ore goes on to the pad and when metal comes out? Yes that’s bit of a complicated question but get an initial – from the minute you stack it and you put it under leach you get an initial spike of grade usually your gold comes out first and then your silver but your initial spike can earn up to 50% over the first three months.
And then over time which may require one to two years you will get the rest of your recovery up to 65% 70% both metals gold and silver.
Jorge just to add to that historically it’s a five to 10-year process but ultimately recover all that metal.
So it’s a relatively long leach curve but like Leon said there is the short-term dynamic that make up the bulk of that recovery.
Yes the 30% to 50% of the short term.
And for the permitting you mentioned there was a three-year lag or lead time would that be per leach pad or would be able to essentially apply simultaneously for all four with one permit within three years? Yes to the extent that we could get a larger one larger pad permitted at once that would be probably the most advantageous way it can about it but we are still making it look what makes most sense there.
I wouldn’t think about it in terms of each new pad being the same size.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Your next question is from John Bridges with JPMorgan.<br> Morning everybody.
Congratulations on the new appointment.
Thanks John.
And just wondered at Kensington the capital you’re spending now where is that going and how much more capital does need to spent? Also what’s the sort of maintaining capital level for the mine? Yeah just take the second part of your question.
The sustained for non-growth non-start up related CapEx there on year-in year-out basis would be in the $10 million $12 million and that includes obviously underground development and everything else that goes into sustaining an underground operation in a location like that.
The funds that we mentioned in our comments are related really the first and the foremost Leon I mean you – or have anything else to add but it’s underground development we really need to get ahead of the game on underground development especially in the higher grade areas so that the mine has a bit more flexibility and more sources of higher grade material contributing to the mill.
There is along with that underground development the need for some additional equipment.
And then there is a series surface facilities for example an expanded man camp [ph] expanded warehouse things of that nature that would better support the operation there given where it fits and the logistics associated with operating there at Kensington.
Leon do you have anything to add on that? No that pretty well covers it.
We haven’t had a much higher mining rate than our nameplate which was 1250 tons per day which is even average 1430 tons; all that requires more manpower more equipment and that’s the mode we are in for the second half of this year.
I’m afraid that No we try to keep our development two years ahead of the mining and we want to keep it there.
Okay.
And then another bigger picture question.
With this cash that was referred to earlier you’ve got a tremendous opportunity or Don has got a tremendous opportunity to go off and find things but also a very big responsibility.
And I was just wondering how you were sort of thinking about the longer term and how you are going to direct these funds in exploration development M&amp;A how you’re thinking about taking the company forward? I’ll start and then Don can chime in.
I think we are blessed to have three mines with long mine lives.
So we are not in a situation where we are living hand to mouth in terms of reserves to support the next year or two or three in terms of mine life but the focus of the company from an exploration standpoint going forward I see it on two tracks.
One is helping connect the dots and then in the eyes of the investment community on the extent to which Palmarejo can be become a true long-life operation.
We ever since we made that acquisition have been talking about Palmarejo the large land position and the potential there to be mining for a very long time.
And obviously new reserves and new sources don’t pop up overnight it takes time.
We are getting now to the point where Don can take some increased exploration money and in addition to supporting sort of the in-line drilling to support active operations can step out and really start to provide us and shareholders with some visibility on the long-term potential of the larger district.
And one area that is perfect example on that is the La Patria that Don mentioned where we haven’t – Coeur has done a lot of drilling there.
We’ve been busy drilling in other areas since we acquired Palmarejo in ’07.
Guadalupe was the first initial example of a new deposit that will begin to contribute to ounces to Palmarejo probably the end of next year.
Now with La Patria with its near surface potential to be an additional source of open pit mining and those are the kinds of things that represent one avenue of opportunity.
And then the second is we – and I am looking at this I guess with the financial perspective and on a depreciation depletion and amortization per ounce basis with all of our mines now up and running that’s a high number.
And in order to really drive earnings we need to spread that DD&amp;A out over as many ounces as possible and that’s something that’s important for us to do with the dollars as well as to add to reserves.
It’s going to make our income statement and our earnings all the more attractive and hopefully drive generate some additional value more for shareholders.
Don do you have anything to add to that? Yeah.
Thanks John for the comment.
You’re right.
We – over the years we tended to be fairly careful about the way we manage our exploration money.
We watched our dollars closely.
We put programs forth and kept our spending in line with budget.
This year we are seeing a lot of opportunity to really expand what we’ve been doing at the operating mines not just Palmarejo which is going to receive the biggest increase of the money that we talked about here earlier today.
We are going to ramp up our drilling at Rochester do more drilling in South America.
And hopefully get this and drill starting again on some new targets that I mentioned at Kensington.
And these are all just kind of – I would like to see these just roll right into next year at the same phase.
And you’re actually right we have to make sure we continue to manage the money properly but part of that increase is going to be working with our exploration senior people to lay out good targets and follow up on them diligently.
John just one follow-up there on Rochester.
I know you’ve always been a frequent follower of our activities and Don’s activities at Rochester.
There are two distinct growth opportunities there at Rochester one is just what we talked about the expansion through the – and getting additional funds under leach.
And then there is the second which is really the renewed drilling program that Don now got underway there.
And we have a large land package there and (inaudible) metals prices in this environment Don’s drilling in the second half especially is going to be really geared towards bringing as many of those new ounces into resource and ultimately reserves that makes sense in a $40 silver price environment and there is a lot of material that makes a cut at those prices.
It really does is to use the money that we’ve been given by you and the Board and go after the best targets so that we can get the highest grade ounces to come forward into mine plan rather than looking strictly at just conversion of resources into reserves with no first job and lots of opportunities to go after.
They are really high-grade things and increase the grade and the ton accordingly.
Okay.
Great guys.
Good luck.
Thanks John.
Thanks.
(Operator instructions) Your next question is from Andrew Kaip with BMO Capital Markets.
congratulations.
Hey Andrew thanks.
Hi.
Look just with respect to Rochester can you give us an indication of how much capital is remaining to be spent on the project? Yes.
Full-year CapEx at Rochester this year altogether is about $30 million.
And through the first six months of the year it has been about $16 or $17 million.
Okay.
And that includes Andrew just to be clear back to the expense versus capitalized account that pre-stripping cost that we are expecting at $30 million.
There’ll be a little bit in July in this third quarter but then that will go away and those costs then will give – into inventory so we won’t in the third quarter see nearly as large of a line item there on the income statement.
Okay.
And then just regarding that what you expect your ongoing reclamation expenses to be can you give us some guidance there? Just company-wide those that you are expensing.
Yeah.
Let me get back to you on that.
Andrew I don’t have that off the top of my head.
you spent approximately $17.9 million investing in five exploration companies.
Do you have an internal budget that you’re working towards an annual basis on making these kinds of investments or are these just as you go and you identify opportunities? Yeah that’s more the latter.
We don’t have a specific target in mind  dollars or number of opportunities it’s just as we identify companies that have projects of interest and locations of interest to us that we’ll dig deeper and pursue this strategy a bit more.
Okay.
And then finally just on the lag between production and sales what kind of lag should we expect or was this really an isolated incidence at – with respect to the production and the sales being so different this quarter? It – kind of the – the two products right the door A [ph] that we ship and then there is a concentrate that we ship in Kensington.
The door A [ph] at Palmarejo and San Bartolomé was really function of just when it shipped and then when brings out [ph] with the refinery and we were able to recognize with the sales.
And so that’s about 28 day to 30 day lag and it just happened this quarter to be a fair number of ounces that straddled at the date of June 30.
Yeah.
But that’s sort of one-timer.
The Kensington concentrate especially the half that get shipped to – a little bit over in Germany that more of a typical concentrate and smelting refining contract that’s where you will see the typical delay of 60 to 80s or so on 90% of the value of the shipment.
And I think first quarter it is the other way around more sales than produced and now this quarter about 10 000 6 000 ounces 7 000 ounces at Kensington other direction.
Okay.
Thanks Andrew.
Our next question is from Chris Lichtenheldt with UBS Securities.
Hi everyone.
Just a couple of questions I wanted to elaborate on Kensington the grade that you experienced it’s a bit lower than what’s expected what’s causing that? Leon you want to take that? Firstly our mining areas we started the property pretty much in the center of the deposit and extremities are where we have the higher grade that’s why we’re going to escalate the development plan.
Okay.
So it should pick up throughout the latter half of this year though you will see some improvement and then into next year that what we would expect at this point? That’s correct.
Okay.
The recovery that was at Palmarejo that was significantly improved over past quarters what has changed there? What gives you comfort that that should stay wise now and there has been some – various experimentation over past quarters and it dipped and then spiked a bit should we expect this to level off and if so maybe you can just a little bit about that? No primarily it’s because the open pit is getting deeper; we are getting out of the oxide zones and the leads to much higher recovery.
We are getting very good recovery on the underground ores.
And we have a pretty intense blending program that everybody is getting confidence in and implementing very well outside and I think all those factors together have put us in this high 70 range.
Okay.
That’s great.
And this may be a question that we follow up after but I just want to – just through the disclosure the cost disclosure at Palmarejo obviously very good cash costs.
But when I try to back out the gold revenue sort of proxy for what the costs are to run that site? It almost looks like the costs in millions of dollar have come down versus last quarter to run Palmarejo is that accurate? Do you know (inaudible) if so you can talk about what they might be? Yeah.
I will circle back in make sure I’m a fact straight but my immediate reaction is that that could be the takes [ph] I know in the first quarter we had a lot of maintenance expense equipment maintenance rebuilds that we get hard in the first quarter that aren’t there weren’t there in the second quarter.
That would be my – I know that’s actually a fairly large dollar amount in the first quarter.
So with that gone out of the second quarter I think you’re right Chris.
Okay.
That’s great.
And then actually just finally on Kensington the maintenance CapEx you talked about like that won’t be expense going forward right I mean you’ve hit the development expense this quarter but that should be sort of one-off? Yes Kensington sustained CapEx going forward of $10-ish million that’ capitalized not on the P&amp;L.
Do you expect any significant cost development work to be expensed over the rest of this year? Say that again Yeah.
I mean you have the largest development expense at – related to Kensington in this quarter? Do you expect any more of that in this quarter? Well the development will increase in the fourth quarter as far as this increased CapEx plans that we have to help increase production and reduce costs.
And so I think the beginning of the year we were targeting just under $30 million in total CapEx at Kensington and now that number is closer to 45.
And to the first six months of the year I think the CapEx at Kensington was around – after a follow-up but yeah I don’t have my hands on it right now but...
Yep.
Not a problem that helps.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our final question comes from Benjamin Asuncion with Haywood Securities.
Hi good afternoon guys and congratulations on the quarter.
Hi.
I just want to follow up on some previous comments that you made exploration.
So I guess the 2011 full year exploration budget has been expanded to $23 million.
Could you give me a breakdown for how much of that’s going to be spent I think sort of mine side exploration versus let’s call it a Greenfield exploration? Hi thanks.
It is Don Birak.
Most of our exploration is really organic growth so that’s the existing operations.
We do have some early stage properties in our portfolio that we are going to be testing principally in South America.
Right now we’re in sort of the winter season down there and though it’s difficult to get out to some of these places but by and large we put over 80% 85% historically at our operating properties for organic growth.
That will continue this year and probably into next year.
One thing that might change that is some success on some of the properties Greenfield properties that we have; we see success there we would ramp it up accordingly.
Okay.
And I guess maybe within that what’s going to account for the largest I guess organic growth projects here? And actually if you can comment on which sort of Greenfield project in going to be the largest within that budget? Palmarejo is by far the biggest and that’s things that we’re doing around the current mine area as well as these other targets that we mentioned while the Guadalupe La Patria for testing new targets in that district.
We’re putting the biggest the biggest being a portion of the increase towards Palmarejo.
Following that it becomes Rochester and also Argentina.
So the other one is really pay on [ph] comparison.
I am hoping that’s going to – we will continue to see good strong exploration at Palmarejo in the future and then going to ramp on the Greenfield side as we speak of the results.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Okay.
There will be no further questions.
Just one thank you again for taking the time.
And we are looking forward to reporting future results that are consistent with the things and the priorities that we laid out to you today.
And appreciate your time and we will talk to you at the end of the third quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Genesa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coeur d’Alene Mines third quarter earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
Ms.
Wendy Yang you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much.
Well welcome everyone to Coeur d'Alene Mines Corporation third quarter financial results conference call.
I am Wendy Yang I’m the Vice President of Investor Relation.
You’ll find Coeur listed on the NYSE and CDE and then on the TSX and CDM.
This call is also being webcast live on our website at www.coeur.com where we have posted slides to accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available from our website for one week following today’s call.
And as you know we will be discussing some forward-looking information today.
So we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please review our cautionary statements shown here and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry and these are described in more detail in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
On Slide 3 we welcome today to Coeur our first call with Coeur Frank Hanagarne our new CFO and Senior Vice President.
We also have Mitchell Krebs President and CEO; Leon Hardy Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Operations; and Don Birak Senior Vice President of Exploration.
Let’s get started Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Wendy.
Welcome and thank you for joining us today.
We’re pleased to have Frank join our Senior Management team.
Frank left Newmont to join us and brings a depth of mining industry expertise in finance operations and business development.
Coeur achieved all-time record quarterly sales and operating cash flow in the third quarter; 344 million in sales and 182 million in operating cash flow.
We also beat consensus estimates for adjusted earnings per share at $1.05 compared to $0.69 consensus.
And operating cash flow per share at $1.68 compared to consensus of $1.30.
Our increasing quarterly cash flow has strengthened our cash and equivalence balance to over 200 million.
Late last month we paid off the remaining $18 million of senior notes leaving only $128 million of remaining debt equivalent to less than three months of cash flow.
Turning to Slide 5 once again our record quarterly results were driven by our constant performance from our Palmarejo silver and gold mine Mexico and our San Bartolome silver mine in Bolivia.
Higher silver and gold prices also augmented our financial results.
During 2011 Palmarejo and San Bartolome have been achieving 60 to 70% gross margins quarterly.
At Rochester in Nevada we are on the cuff of a resurgence in production.
Production begins this fourth quarter from the new leach pad that was construction this year which adds seven more years of silver and gold production from our longest running mine.
Our number one priority for all of our operations is to achieve and maintain operating consistency.
San Bartolome and Palmarejo are now doing just that.
On the gold production side we’re not yet satisfied with Kensington performance.
Leon will speak more about the steps we’re taking there in a couple of minutes but in short Kensington is an underground operation with one primary way in and primary out of the mine through the main portal.
So we need to slow down production activities for about six months while we focus on completing several key projects which are designed to get Kensington performing consistently and more efficiently.
What this means in the short-term is that Kensington’s 2011 production will total about 85 000 ounces of gold and cash cost will be about $990 an ounce.
In 2012 we’ll see production rates increase in the second half once these projects are completed resulting in total 2012 production and cost roughly equal to what we expect to see here in 2011.
The payoff from this short-term reduction comes in 2013 and beyond when production and cost at Kensington will become more consistent and sustainable.
We expect Kensington’s production to be between 125 000 and 135 000 ounces of gold in 2013.
It’s important to note that there is no new capital needed for these initiatives.
What we’re doing is prioritizing the completion of these projects in order to support more sustainable operations over the long-term.
In order to do this we need to slow down production-related activities.
<br>Companywide we expect to produce approximately 19.5 million ounces of silver this year and about 220 000 ounces of gold.
The 19.5 million ounces of silver is in line with prior guidance and the 220 000 ounces of gold is about 20 000 ounces lower due to the temporary reduction at Kensington I just mentioned.
Cash operating cost for the company are expected to average $5.75 per ounce of silver for the full year.
And as a company we remain on track to exceed $1 billion of total sales and over a half a billion dollars of operating cash flow this year.
Now Frank will take us through some of the financial highlights from the quarter.
Thanks Mitch I’ll address Slide Number 6 which is a financial snapshot of our third quarter financial performance.
Starting with the top left chart you’ll see that we continue to realize strong silver and gold prices.
Our average realized price is for 38.35 for silver ounces and $1 681 per gold ounce.
That’s double for silver and 37% higher for gold compared to the last year’s third quarter.
Moving at the chart on the right metal sales reached a record 344 million in the third quarter which is 49% increase over the prior quarter and 190% higher than the year ago quarter.
Sales of silver contributed 68% of the company’s total metal sales while the remainder was derived from the sale of gold.
Looking at the chart on the lower left we generated operating cash flow for a record 151 million in the third quarter.
This was 30% jump over the prior quarter and fivefold increase over last year’s third quarter.
Adjusted earnings totaled 93.8 million during the third quarter up 62% over the prior quarter and a significant improvement over the last year’s third quarter adjusted loss.
We are expecting higher production and lower unit cost in the fourth quarter of this year from all our operations except for Kensington.
This should translate to our highest quarter of production sales and operating cash flow.
Now turn to Slide 7 and emphasize some key financial highlights.
Starting again at the top left hand chart cash and cash equivalence at a total of 208 million at the end of September and now stand at approximately 180 million after paying off 18 million of remaining senior notes subsequent to the end of the third quarter.
As shown on the lower right chart we have reduced our total debt by 20% from 160 million at the end of 2010 to a balance that’s currently at 128 million.
Turning our attention to capital expenditures at the top right as you heard no new capital is needed for the Kensington initiatives.
We expected CapEx in 2012 will be lower than 2011.
Our silver/gold operations will carry our momentum until Kensington resumes 100% mining operations in mid-2012.
Mitch I’ll turn it back over to you.
On Slide 8 you can see our shares outstanding has remained level for over six quarters now.
With our strengthened cash flow from operations our management and the board are evaluating means of returning capital to our shareholders in 2012.
We are considering the second half of 2012 for implementation once consistency is achieved at all of our operations including Kensington and Rochester.
In the meantime we are deploying our free cash flow towards internal and external high-return opportunities.
Where do we see high return growth for shareholders? First in exploration.
We increased our exploration investment in the second half of this year by 68% and by 37% over last year to $24 million for the full-year of 2011.
And we’re looking to increase this level to around $40 million in exploration investment in 2012 as we see great opportunity for additions to resources over the next couple years at our young underexplored mining district especially at Palmarejo and Kensington.
Secondly we are investing in growth at our existing properties including advancing the Waukegan Silver Project in Argentina to a feasibility study.
We are also planning the next generation of expansion at Rochester beyond the current reserves.
We will be submitting this next plan of operation for permitting in early 2012.
Thirdly we have invested almost $20 million year-to-date in five silver exploration and development companies.
These strategic investments provide exposure to several growing silver projects from British Columbia down through Chili that have the potential to add to the company’s growth pipeline.
Leon will now take us through our operational performance in the third quarter.
On Slide 10 our third quarter production of 4.9 million ounces of silver was up about 13% over the third quarter of 2010.
Palmarejo counted for approximately 46% of the company’s silver production in the third quarter.
Gold production was 57 000 ounces of which Kensington accounted for approximately 45% or approximately 26 000 gold ounces and about 30 000 ounces were produced at Palmarejo.
Gold production was down slightly from the prior quarter and about 20% higher than last year’s third quarter.
Our consolidated cash operating cost were $7.57 per ounce of silver in the third quarter.
Cost were higher than the -go third quarter due to short-term production at Palmarejo San Bartolome and Rochester which are expected to improve in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 11 Palmarejo produced 2.3 million ounces of silver and approximately 30 000 ounces of gold at cash operating cost of negative $1.16 per silver ounce.
Palmarejo turned in another quarter of consistent performance which included improving recovery rates of about 76% for silver and 94% for gold.
Palmarejo is our largest contributor of sales and cash flow as shown in the pie charts.
For the first nine months of 2011 Palmarejo accounted for 49% of consolidated sales and 58% of cash flow from our mines.
For the fourth quarter increased throughput and sustained silver recovery rates are expected to drive increased productions at Palmarejo.
On our next slide similar to Palmarejo San Bartolome continues to perform consistently.
The mine produced 2.1 million ounces of silver at cash operating cost of $9.32 per ounce.
Metal sales were 103 million with operating cash flow of about 50 million for the third quarter.
San Bartolome accounts for 26% of our consolidated metal sales and 27% of cash flow from our mines.
On to Slide 13 Rochester produced over 350 000 ounces of silver and about 1 400 ounces of gold at cash operating cost of $36.71 per ounce from on-going residual leaching activities while the mine focused on completing construction of a new leach pad and placing material on the pad.
<br>Cost were temporarily higher during the quarter due to these activities while ounces were produced solely from residual leach resulting in the higher cost per ounce.
We have been loading the new leach pad with ore containing 4 000 ounces of gold and 400 000 ounces of silver through the end of October.
We will continue loading that much material each month and we will expect rapid recovery in the first 30 to 60 days of placement which will drive higher productions in the fourth quarter.
As we have discussed in the past there is significant production potential at Rochester this initial 50 million ton leach pad only covers production from the existing reserves at Rochester.
There is a significant amount of resources containing over 100 million ounces of silver and nearly 800 000 ounces of gold which we are aggressively pushing to convert to resources while planing for new leach pads on which to place this material.
<br>Please refer to the appendix for a breakout of these resources.
Furthermore there is the exploration upsite to expand reserves and resources which Don will discuss later.
On Slide 14 Kensington produced about 26 000 ounces of gold $9 -- $973 per cash ounce in the third quarter resulting in 44 million in sales and 14.5 million in operating cash flow.
Now let’s discuss the path forward at Kensington on the next slide.
While Kensington has only been operating for 16 months during this time we have not achieved our goals in production cost and cash flow principally due to lingering startup issues.
We have primary access for all construction and ore production traffic at the underground mine.
To complete most key projects we must temporarily scale back production to sequence ore haulage with other work.
These key initiatives include accelerating the underground development to increase the number of working faces and enhance operational flexibility.
Increase infill drilling to improve definition of ore zones convert resources to reserves and discover and find new resources.
Completing the underground paste backfill plant to allow mining of more [inaudible] upgraded surface facilities such as the dormitory office facilities warehouse horse shed to better support operations and reinforce overall safety throughout the operation.
2012 is expected to be a transition year at Kensington to complete these initiatives and having operating activities resume at increased levels.
The objective of all of this is to lower cost and to achieve higher more constant production loads.
I’ll now turn the presentation over to Don.
Thank you Leon.
I’m really very encouraged to talk to you today about our exploration results and our reaffirmation of our commitment to exploration with a nearly $3 million increase to this year’s budget.
The new total of just over 24 million is over 37% larger than the full-year cost in 2010.
We completed nearly 40 000 meters of drilling across all of our properties the lion’s share of which were at Palmarejo and Rochester in the third quarter.
Drilling at both of these properties has yielded positive results.
Here we show some the favorable results received from drilling at LA Patria and Palmarejo.
We’re pleased with these initial results and I will talk more about La Patria later in this presentation.
In addition we completed the acquisition of an early-stage property Guerra al Tirano located within the limits of our Palmarejo concessions.
This was the largest foreign-held land parcel interior to our holdings and it straddles one of the major Northwest-trending ore-bearing structures that cut the district.
Turning to Slide 18 like at Palmarejo we significantly stepped up the drilling program around the Rochester mine.
Most of this drilling was devoted to two areas Nevada Packard at the south and Northwest Rochester at the north.
In both of these areas we received several positive results from drilling.
In particular the drilling at northwest Rochester cut wide intercepts of silver and gold significantly higher grade than the current metal reserves.
I will highlight northwest Rochester a little later.
Finally we recommenced drilling with the advent of spring weather conditions at Joaquin and southern Argentina.
The purpose of this drilling is to expand and define the current metal resources which stand at nearly 70 million contained ounces of silver at LA Negra and La Morocha deposits and to collect new samples from metallurgical test.
This drilling will be used to help support feasibility studies currently being kicked off.
Going to slide number 19 for the remainder of the presentation I’m going to focus on exploration at the holdings of Palmarejo and Rochester.
Slide 20 earlier this year we commenced the first Coeur drilling at La Patria.
This is located in the south centeral part of our Palmarejo land holdings.
La Patria is a zone of silver and gold veins on one of the major northwest trending structure cordial throughout the district.
<br>Current Palmarejo mine and the Guadalupe deposit are also located on similar northwest oriented structures.
We believe La Patria has potential to be a completely new mining area for us at Coeur both underground and surface.
Mineralization at this La Patria structure is demonstrated over nearly two kilimeters of strike and the structure itself extends to the north and to the south beyond the limits of our drilling.
Here we show on slide number 20 a surface image with the known zones of mineralization super imposed over it.
Location of the recently acquired Guerra al Tirano property is just off the slide to the left.
Next slide this image we show a cross section with the pierced points of our current drilling on the La Patria color coded by grade times thickness.
Holes drilled this year are noted by stars.
The first drilling performed by Coeur at La Patria since acquisition of Palmarejo.
We’ve completed over 3 300 meters of Coeur drilling to the end of September and we’ve recommenced drilling there again in the fourth quarter.
Drilling has – as I said recommencing we’re going to continue that program in to 2012.
Joining today is to defining at least three coherent zones with gold and silver mineralization in the La Patria vein system with at least two additional ones suggested.
Many of our drill holes cut multiple mineralized intercepts.
Much more drilling is needed here to further define this system and is wide open to depth and on strike.
Assays from our drilling are shown in the appendix of this presentation.
Now to shift to Rochester.
Drilling this past quarter was more than doubled from prior quarter and focused on two targets northwest Rochester north of the current Rochester surface mine and the Nevada Packard.
Again essay completion of this past quarters drilling are shown in the appendix.
Next slide shows the outline of additional mineral resources peripheral to the current or reserved limits.
The mineral resources just around the Rochester deposit alone are very large containing over 79 million silver ounces in total measured an indicated plus another 10 million of inferred mineral resource ounces.
<br>It is important to note that the resources are open on the north and west shown here.
We’ve been drilling on the northern side of the deposit this past quarter of the northwest Rochester target.
At this time our drilling suggest strong potential to extend mineralization to Rochester and Packard and we will be drilling there in the fourth quarter and into 2010.
Mitch?  We have invested about $20 million to date in five silver exploration and development companies this year.
These investments represent one component to our efforts to add new silver growth projects to the company’s pipeline.
<br>We have a 6% interest in Silver Bull resources which operations the Sierra Mojada project in Mexico where Silver Bull announced the 61 million ounce silver resource last month.
We also own a 7% interest in Huldra silver which is developing the high grade Treasure Mountain Property in British Columbia.
Turning back to Mexico we have 8% interest in Soltoro which is advancing the El Rayonier silver project which currently has a 58 million ounce measured in indicative resource.
In addition we own just under 10% of Apogee silver which is advancing the Pulacayo-Paca silver property in Bolivia and also has an early stage silver exploration project in northern Chile.
The company recently announced an increase in the resources at Pulacayo-Paca to 56 million ounces.
And finally we have a 6% interest in Caracara silver which is exploring perspective silver projects on its 24 000 [inaudible] land package in southern Peru.
We feel like we’re doing the right things here at Coeur to best position the company to deliver consistent performance over the long-term.
We’re on track for our best financial results in our 83 year history with $1 billion in metal sales and over 500 million in operating cash flow in 2011.
We’re a top ten global primary silver producer and we expect to produce 19.5 million ounces of silver at cash operating cost of $5.75 per ounce in 2011.
We’re taking action at Kensington with a short-term reduction in production to achieve long-term consistency.
We’re evaluating capital return to our shareholders in 2012 and evaluating how that best fits in to our overall strategy for creating long-term value for investors.
And in the meantime over the near-term we are investing our increasing cash flow and high return value creating opportunities.
<br>We appreciate your time today and your continued interest in our company.
Operator we’re now ready for your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And you first question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain of Deutsche Bank.
Good afternoon gentlemen and ladies and congratulations on your results.
My question was just related to the Kensington downtime.
How much of this pushback in your production rate is related to the unfortunate incident you had there resulting in the death of a miner a few months ago?  And could you quantify how much of those costs are related to perhaps the safety element?  Yes sure.
Hi Jorge it’s Mitch Krebs.
This initiative doesn’t have anything to do with that unfortunate incident.
This is a course of action that we’re taking based on the performance of the mine and is independent of that incident.
So you know we look at it as a completely separate course of action that will best position Kensington for the long term.
Okay great.
And my other question was was this related on squaring the company’s current debt balances?  I noticed that you do tend to exclude the leases and the short-term royalty payments there.
But it does beg the question – I do recall about three year ago when you were raising cash you had sold some of your operating equipment and did a lease back.
Is that part of some of these lease payments that you’re still making or have you closed those out?  And secondly in the current environment does it make sense for Coeur to perhaps deploy some of the cash to buy its own equipment instead of leasing it?  Yeah you’re right good memory.
There is a portion of our capital leases that involve the sale of lease back from 2008 I think or maybe 2009 and we have looked at that question as we’re evaluating ways to deploy free cash flow to the greatest good.
And the capital leases that we have on our balance sheet have an average interest cost to them of right about I think it’s 5 ½% or so.
So you know in terms of ranking of prioritization of free cash flow we’re starting with the strong double digit opportunities.
And right now those capital leases are down the list a ways.
But we’re you know we continue to evaluate every opportunity we can to deploy cash in the most efficient and value-creating way.
Thank you and sorry.
Third question.
Of the production decrease of operating rate you’re looking at Kensington will that have any impact on some of the sales contracts that you’ve already made to refiners for that metal or are you just below the – are you still within your threshold to meet those contracted commitments?  Yeah as you know we send half of the concentrate to China National Gold and the other half over to Arubus in Germany and we’re okay under both of those arrangements.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Thorp of Sonoma Capital Management.
Hi Mitch.
Congratulations on another good quarter.
Hey Jeff.
Thanks  Quick question for you just on the cash balance.
You had 207 million and you paid off the senior notes.
I would have thought that the cash balance would have been a little bit higher maybe increased by the cash flow you generated over the next month.
Could you just reconcile that for me?  Let’s see.
You know we ended the June quarter with I think it was what $106 million of cash.
So we have a you know a huge third quarter.
A lot of that came from as you recall in the second quarter we’ve produced more than we sold and so a lot of that cash flow from those ounces came into the third quarter.
There was at the end of September then other – in addition to the senior note retirement principal and interest payments on the Credit Suisse term… Term facility.
Okay.
That’s what I thought it was.
Yeah.
And then the royalty payment to Franklin Nevada based on a portion of the gold production at Palmerjo.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Yep thanks Jeff.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy (Serpec) Private Investor.
Thank you.
Several questions.
First I want to clarify a comment.
Mitch on your opening statement you made reference to operating cash flow of 182 million but on Slide 6 I see it’s referenced as 151 million.
Could you just clarify that for me?  Yeah sure.
It’s the different in – when you look at the cash flow statement between the – 182 million is after changes in working capital and the 151 is before changes in working capital.
So on a GAAP basis the number’s 182 and on a pre-working capital changes basis it’s the 151.
Thank you.
Secondly here I’d like to ask you a question about the silver market in general.
I was listening to a webcast interview with Ross Hansen of the Northwest Territorial Mint.
He made a statement that on the industrial side of things separate from the investment side that silver was in surplus right now.
And he referenced a pretty large number and I was very taken aback by that because I hadn’t heard anything like that anywhere else  Are you seeing anything in terms of silver being in a significant surplus as you exit this year?  We’re not.
We continue to see tightness in the end markets.
You know obviously a lot of demand is on the investment side which seems to be syphoning off a lot of supply that normally is targeted for the industrial uses.
We’ve seen inquiries here into the company directly from industrial end users seeking to buy silver directly from the company which I think is an interesting piece of evidence that there still continues to be a lot of tightness out there.
And finally I’d just like to ask a question about returning value to shareholders you’ve referenced here the possibility of evaluating dividends as well as a share buyback.
How about debt reduction in terms of balance sheet improvement?  To what extent is further debt reduction in the year ahead a significant goal of the company?  Good question.
As I said we looked to deploy cash in the highest return opportunities that we can find.
There’s no better place for us to be doing that than in increased exploration or on our existing operations.
The Rochester expansion which is just now going to start throwing off production and cash flow in the fourth quarter that’s a triple digit rate of return.
When you look at what we have left for debt on the balance sheet of – I think it’s 128 million about 80 million of that is in a term facility with Credit Suisse where the interest rate is just a tad over 5% and then there’s about $48 million of an old out-of-the-money 3 ¼% convert that – at 3 ¼% that’s pretty cheap money so in terms of allocating cash to repayment of either of those you know we see other more value-creating opportunities to deploy or free cash here in the next 12 to 24 months.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of John Bridges of JPMorgan.
Hi John.
Operator did we lose John?  Your line is open.
Can we move to the next question please?  Your next question comes from the line of Proctor Winston of Pilot Advisors.
Yeah great quarter.
Hi.
Thanks.
Mitch I was just curious if things were to be as you see them now as you described would – how long would Kensington be able to produce that level of gold at these cash costs after 2013.
Yeah.
We have a current reserve there of about 1.3 or 1.4 million ounces there’s about a 12-year total mine life there based on those reserves.
So it’s a nice long life asset with a lot of exploration upside there over the last several years and we really haven’t deployed a lot of exploration money to Kensington.
So I know Don Birak has got some aggressive plans to start the exploration activity at the – at Kensington and hopefully that will you know further expand that mine life beyond that 12 years or so.
Can you just repeat what you said the cash cost was going to be when things get moving?  We haven’t said where cash costs are going to be once we are back up and running at full steam later 2012 or second half of 2012 and into 2013 but the target is only one of the main objects of this entire initiative is to get those cash costs down to a competitive level from where they are.
And we’ll – as we have more details on that we’ll be sure to pass those along.
Thanks Mitch.
Yep.
We have a question from the line of John Bridge of JPMorgan.
Hi.
Mitch.
Good afternoon.
Hey John.
The suspense was killing us before when it was silent when they said your name.
I know I know.
One of these days I’ll learn to figure out how to drive the mute button.
I just wanted to – there’s a lot of talk about the new rules down in Argentina.
I just wondered how you saw them affecting you?  Yeah we take the view there John that given what we have going on around Martha and Wauken you know we’re an investor into Argentina.
The 0.6% additional costs one way and I guess 1.2% both ways for companies you know looking to move money in and out will be just additional frictional cost of doing business in Argentina.
But from our standpoint really not a meaningful event.
Okay great.
On Rochester you had the big cost number there because the accounting is a little bit dysfunctional for resource industry.
I just wondered where you saw – where you expect the cost structure to steady out once you get to normal production next year?  Yeah costs in the fourth quarter and then going forward should be around that $10 an ounce range and that’s after the gold byproduct.
Okay cool.
Excellent.
Congratulations on the results Mitch.
Okay thanks John.
And there are no further questions.
I would like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Mitch for closing comments.
Again we appreciate everyone’s time and interest in the company.
We look forward to getting back to you after year end with hopefully a strong finish to the 2011.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q4 2011 year-end earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
Thank you.
I would now like to turn today’s conference over to Wendy Yang Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you very much.
Well welcome everyone to Coeur d'Alene Mines fourth quarter  and year-end financial results conference call.
I’m Wendy Yang I’m Vice President of Investor Relation.
You’ll find Coeur is listed as CDE on the New York Stock Exchange and as CDM on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
This call is being webcast at www.coeur.com where we have posted slides to accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of this call will be available from our website for one week following today’s call.
We will be discussing some forward-looking information today so we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please review our cautionary statements shown here and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry and these are described more fully in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Mitch Krebs our President and CEO.
Mitch?  Thanks Wendy.
Hello everybody and thank you for joining us here today.
Before I begin I’ll like to introduce Randy Buffington our new Senior Vice President of Operations who will oversee the company’s silver and gold operations worldwide.
Randy who has a demonstrated track record of success in both operating open-pit and underground operations will be a integral part of our efforts to achieve operational consistency and implement internal and external growth initiatives that will create value for our shareholders.
We welcome to Coeur.
Also with us here at Coeur d'Alene is Luke Russel our Senior Vice President of Environmental Health and Safety and Corporate social responsibility who’s available for questions after our presentation and also Bill Orr who heads up our Technical Services group.
Let’s get in to the slides turning to Slide 5.
2011 was a year of transformation for Coeur.
During the year we achieved record financial and operating performance.
Realize the first full year of production at our three newer long life mines Palmarejo San Bartolomé and Kensington and we strengthened our management team at all levels of the company.
Our primary commitment is to produce shareholder value through operating consistency cost containment aggressive exploration and value creating growth.
At the same time we are dedicated to protecting shareholder value by building a culture throughout the organization that has the highest regard for environmental stewardship employee health and safety and fostering mutually beneficial relationships in the communities where we operate.
We continue our efforts to be the leading primary silver producer with a sustainable production profile of both silver and gold.
After an aggressive build out over the last four years San Bartolomé in 2008 Palmarejo in 2009 Kensington in 2010 and then Rochester in 2011.
We now have a solid platform in place that is generating significant cash flow and that offers strong leverage to silver and gold prices.
Our financial and operating highlights are found on Slide 6.
Coeur reached new heights of success in 2011 driven primarily by a record production at Palmarejo and San Bartolomé and higher silver and gold prices.
The company realized all-time highs in full-year production metal sales and operating cash flow.
Metal sales nearly doubled in 2011 to over $1 billion and our operating cash flow increased 147% compared to 2010 and adjusted earnings were 232.5 million or $2.60 per-share which is a five-fold increase over 2010.
Net income for the year was a record $93.5 million or $1.05 per-share compared to a net loss in 2010.
And cash and equivalence increased 165% to end the year at $175 million.
These record financial results were the result of dramatically improved operating performance.
Silver production was up 14% to 19.1 million ounces while gold production was up 40% to 220 382 ounces.
Cash operating cost decline 3% to $6.31 per silver ounce.
Total silver resources inclusive of reserves increased 8% to 525 million ounces while total gold resources including reserves increased to 4.9 million ounces company wide.
Slide 7 highlights the priorities we have as a management team for making Coeur the most attractive precious metals equity possible.
In this environment of rising prices it’s critical that we keep cost as flat as possible so that we can provide the kind of leverage to prices that our shareholders are seeking.
To this slide you can see what kind of leverage we provided last year.
On a percentage basis our margins increased significantly more than metals prices did.
On a dollar basis our operating margin per ounce increased from just under $10 an ounce in 2010 to over $20 an ounce in 2011.
In addition to leverage we are proactively managing the downside risks that are inherent in mining in the areas of environmental compliance and stewardship worker health and safety and establishing and maintaining constructive relationships with local communities around our operations.
Finally we are taking a disciplined approach to growing the business based on returns and creating long-term value.
We’re aggressively focusing our exploration efforts on our landholdings near our operations and pursuing expansions at our existing minds in order to maximize returns on capital deploy.
Any new external growth has to meet return criteria and be accretive on a fresh-air basis to our shareholders.
Turning to Slide 8 we expect 2012 to be a year of important decisions and catalysts for the company.
We expect full-year companywide production to be 18.5 to 20 million ounces of silver and between 210 and 230 ounces of gold and we expect cash operating costs will be in the range of $6.50 to $7.50 per silver ounce and between 1 150 and $1 250 per ounce of gold at Kensington.
2012 CapEx is expected to total 90 to 120 million including about 20 million that rolled over from 2012 or sorry from 2011 in 2012.
We expect our 2012 exploration program to be 40 million which is a 53% increase over 2011 levels and G&amp;A costs are expected to come in at 26 million in 2012 which is down 15% from the $31 million level in 2011.
I’ll turn it over to Fran Hanagarne now for a financial overview.
Thank you Mitch.
I’ll begin with Slide 10 whereas indicated a dramatic rise in both annual net metal sales and annual adjusted earnings for the year and over prior years.
Beginning with the graph on the left 2011 annual net metal sales nearly doubled 2010 levels to reach over $1 billion.
This increase of 506 million or 98% is due ot higher silver production from Palmarejo and San Bartolome.
The first year of gold production from the full year of gold production from the Kensington mind and substantially higher silver and gold prices.
Turning to the graph on the right the full year adjusted earnings reached a record of 232.5 million or $2.60 per share.
On Slide 11 the chart on the left indicates 2011 operating cash flow at a record 454 million a 147% increase over 2010.
The operating cash flow per share results was $5.07 per share outpacing Bloomberg analyst estimates of $4.56 per share.
On the right 2011 capital expenditures of 120 million represented 23% reduction from 2010.
The majority of the capital expenditures were Palmarejo for activities at the [inaudible] facility at Kensington for the construction of the underground paste fill plant and for underground development and at Rochester for construction of the new leach pad.
On slide 12 our cash and cash equivalents totaled $175 million at year-end an increase of approximately 165% from 2010.
The chart on the right indicates that we reduced our debt balance by approximately $47 million in 2011 leaving total debt at $121.5 million at year-end.
Debt repayment included the 1.25% convertible notes senior term notes bank loans and the remaining outstanding balance of a gold facility a gold lease facility.
This rise in our cash balance was achieved after funding $120 million of capital investments and supporting a $26 million exploration program.
Working capital was $213 million at year-end compared to negative working capital at the year-end 2010 and has resulted in a current ratio improvement to 1.8 at year-end 2011 from 1.0 at the end of 2010.
Turning to slide 13 2011 marked the first year that all three of our newer mines were in production together.
In 2012 a portion of projected cash flow will be reinvested to sell funds sustaining capital needs and growth through exploration.
We have earmarked expansion capital to develop the Guadalupe deposit at Palmarejo for targeted reserve conversion.
Mining at Guadalupe is scheduled to commence in 2013.
We also expect to invest approximately $28 billion in tailing facilities in 2012 at Palmarejo San Bartolomé and Kensington.
We’re moving these tailings investments from sustaining capital expenditures illustrates a $30 to $50 million range for normalized capital expenditures for the company.
Moving on to slide 14.
Our shares outstanding total has remained largely unchanged for the last 12 months to insure shareholder value.
We remain committed to maximizing shareholder value through prioritization of internal projects and growth opportunities based on return and accretion of value.
Evaluation of shareholders capital return alternatives will be announced once operational consistency is achieved across all of our mine sites.
In addition to using cash for capital expansion internally we are also deploying cash flow to significantly increase exploration program funding.
Later you will hear Don Birak speak about the exploration potential at and around our young mining districts.
I’ll now turn over to Leon Hardy who will provide a summary of our operating performance.
Thank you Frank.
Starting with slide 16 San Bartolomé in Bolivia and Palmarejo in Mexico continue to perform consistently and at record levels.
Together these two mines represent 85% of our total silver production and 57% of total gold production in 2011.
Both mines are off to a strong start in 2012.
Our decision to focus on long-term stability at our Kensington gold mine in Alaska is on track.
As planned we will see significantly reduced production in the first half of 2012 at Kensington while several projects designed to improved operational efficiency and consistency are completed.
Our Rochester mine in Nevada is back in operation for the first time since 2007 and we expect seven more years of production from Rochester’s current reserves.
On slide 17 since 2008 the company has grown it’s silver production at a 17% annual rate and its gold production at a 68% annual clip.
This growth is a reflection of the new operations we’ve brought online during this time.
Led by San Bartolomé and Palmarejo we have now reached a new platform of production that we expect to sustain in 2012.
Let’s turn to slide 18.
The charts on the left provide our fourth quarter silver production of 5.43 million ounces a quarterly record while gold production dropped due to the reduction in mining activities at Kensington.
Cash operating cost per silver ounce declined 20% compared to the third quarter while cash cost per ounce of gold increased due to the reduction in production in Kensington.
Turning to slide 19 in the fourth quarter of 2011 our Flagship Palmarejo mine produced 2.6 million ounces of silver and 34 000 ounces of gold at a cash operating cost of negative $2.13 per ounce.
Total metal sales were 134 million and operating cash flow was $77 million.
For the full-year production at Palmarejo was 9 million ounces of silver and 125 000 ounces of gold at a cash operating cost of negative $0.97 per silver ounce.
Total metal sales were $513 million and operating cash flow was $299 million for the year.
Higher silver and gold grades and improved silver recovery rates were the key drivers for this strong performance.
Next is slide 20 on San Bartolomé where operations are steady.
Fourth quarter 2011 production was 2 million ounces of silver and cash operating cost were $9.18 per silver ounce.
Total metal sales for the quarter were $63 million and operating cash flow was $29 million.
Production for the year was 7.5 million ounces of silver with cash arbitrating cost of $9.10 per ounce.
Increased production was driven by 4% higher metal throughput and 7% higher ore grade than 2010.
Metal sales were $268 million and operating cash flow was 128 million.
In December 2011 we were granted an exemption to mine the Huacajchi Sur deposit located above the 4 400 meter mining restriction level mandated by the federal government.
Continued mining over the next two years of the higher-grade Huacajchi Sur ore should enable Coeur to realize higher margins to help offset expected higher labor and consumable cost in 2012.
On slide 21 production for the fourth quarter at Rochester was 373 000 ounces of silver and 1 993 ounces of gold.
Cash operating cost were $38 per silver ounce.
Quarterly metal sales were 11 million and operating cash flow was 3 million.
Production from the new leach pad began in November 2011.
We expect 2012 production at Rochester to accelerate with each quarter with a expectation of achieving full-year production of 2.6 to 2.9 million ounces of silver and 30 to 35 000 ounces of gold.
Total 2011 production was 1.4 million ounces of silver and 6 300 ounces of gold.
Cash operating cost were $22.97 per silver ounce the significantly higher cash operating cash resulting from the fact that pre-strip and ore haulage cost associated with the development of the new leach pad and related mining activities were expensed in 2011 while ounces produced were mostly from residual leaching.
2011 metal sales were $57 million.
Operating cash flow was $3 million for the year.
Slide 22 we received notice in late November 2011 of the claims dispute regarding unpatented claims at Rochester mine following Rochester inadvertent failure to pay annual mining claim maintenance fees.
We subsequently restaked the disputed unpatented mining claims and are pursuing legal action.
I our lawsuit we content that the defendant trespassed on Coeur’s processory rights of these claims violated federal safety standards and violated the right of exclusion and control of the property under Coeur’s deal and approved plan of operations.
We were granted a preliminary injunction in December that protects the active mine areas.
We will vigorously defend our rights and procession of these disputed claims in a case set to go to trial in November 2012.
This dispute has no impact on our year-end 2011 reserves for the seven year life of the mine production.
We cannot predict the legal outcome of the court case which could have some impact on Rochester’s 2011 mineral resources estimates.
Mining activities continue at the mine and are unaffected by the dispute.
As previously announced production levels at Kensington have been reduced since last November to complete several key projects designed to improve operational efficiency and consistency.
Fourth quarter production at Kensington was 13 047 ounces of gold and cash operating cost were $1 800 for gold ounce.
Metal sales were $33 million operating cash flow was negative $4 million.
Total year-end production at Kensington was 88 400 ounces of gold and cash operating cost were $1 088 per gold ounce.
Full-year metal sales totaled $151 million while operating cash flow was $36 million.
On slide 24 you can see that in 2012 Kensington will be a story of two halves.
As planned first quarter 2012 production will be the lowest of the year.
Second half production is expected to pick up as planned.
Reflecting this year’s production profile cash operating cost per ounce are anticipated to be approximately 1 750 per ounce for the first half and then improve to 800 to 1 000 per ounce for the fourth quarter.
Good progress is being made during the transition period to achieve a higher and sustainable level of production at lower cost.
Underground development activities are on schedule which will provide operational flexibility and facilitate new field drilling and exploration work.
Construction of the paste plant is nearly complete.
For the commissioning the definition drilling program is ahead of schedule and most new surface facilities including another dormitory along with an expanded kitchen and dining facilities are now in use.
Others will be completed when the weather improves.
Through our accelerated development in the underground operations we are opening up a new mining area in the lower region of the deposit to complement the mining from the upper region.
We expect to have 4 to 6 working phases in each of the 2 regions to enhance our mining flexibility.
Don Birak will now provide an update on exploration activities.
Thank you.
The accelerated pace we initiated in the early third quarter continued in to the fourth.
At the peak of the program we had 14 drills in operation.
Drilling and trenching in the second half of the year was more than double what we completed in the first.
The largest component of this program was devoted to Palmarejo.
With a record exploration budget of $40 million in 2012 we commenced drilling at the same accelerated pace we had in late 2011.
Strong focus again on Palmarejo followed by Joaquin Kensington and San Bartolomé.
Highlights of last year’s programs at Joaquin Palmarejo and Kensington are shown on this slide 27.
Especially pleased with the work at Joaquin which led to the completion of the first mineral resource estimate for two deposits La Negra La Morocha on this more than 28 000 hectored gold – excuse me hectored joint venture property.
Palmarejo we completed the first core drilling and trenching on the La Patria deposit resulting in a increase in contained ounces of silver and gold in Sur resources.
This more than 1.8 kilometers-long on veins and stockworks requires much more drilling which is part of our 2012 program.
In late 2011 we conducted additional drilling on the Raven zone at Kensington and we’ll continue that program in to 2012.
Finally we conducted extensive exploration drilling at Rochester in 2012 we have plans to continue that work this year.
Turning to slide 28 we charted our exploration expenditure activity since the Palmarejo acquisition in 2008 which reflects you see the change reflects the effect of the global financial crisis as late 2008 2009.
It also shows our accelerated program that began in 2011 coincident with reduced companywide major capital expenditures and rising metal price market.
2011 and 2012 exploration programs rank second and first respectively in our history.
The breakdown of 2012 cost in to expense and capitalized components is also shown.
Associated with this ramped up program we have rescheduled our key drilling to upgrade in [inaudible] measured resources to measure the indicated for the first half of the year and exploration for new resources in to the second half.
This will allow us to synchronize estimation of mineral resources and reserves mine planning and budgeting.
The next two slides look at changes and silver and gold reserves and resources over the last 4 years.
First silver on slide 29.
We have maintained large silver reserve and resource space despite annual increases and depletion.
In 2011 our silver ounces contained and mineral resources increased significantly from 2010.
This bolds well for conversion to reserves with new technical and economically [inaudible] and modeling schedule in the second – early in the second half of 2012.
We see a similar pattern in gold.
Comparing this to the exploration [inaudible] chart on the prior slide one can see that there is a lag between changes and resources and reserves as exploration and development cost increase or go down.
Extrapolating this to 2012 our increased exploration pace which commenced in the second half of 2011 and continues today should result in expanded reserves and resources for 2012 and in to 2013.
On to slide 31 now here you see a image an aerial image of the current Palmarejo mine area and the surface projection of the two main mineralized structure zone La Blanca La Prieta.
There are five main ore zones located on these two structures Chapotillo and Tucson sit on La Prieta 108 and 76 on La Blanca and Rosario occurs at the confluence of the two structures.
All the zones but notably Rosario 76 and 108 remain open for expansion.
We have three drills operating at the mine now expect to maintain that pace in to the third quarter.
The smaller map on the upper right shows the entire district with the major north west oriented mineral trends.
We recognize four such trends in the district but have not yet fully explored their extent or for other [inaudible] structures.
Now we shift to La Patria.
La Patria [inaudible] about 10 kilometers south southeast of Palmarejo.
This past year we completed nearly 13 000 meters of drilling and trenching and completed in those trenches 90 new trenches to constrain the future mineral resource models from drilling all the way to the surface.
In the surface trenches we see the mineralized zones averaging 4.4 meters wide but locally over 20.
With the few exceptions drilling is still only completed on wide centers in the three main zones of higher grades remain opened at depth.
For 2012 we plan to complete another 12 000 meters of drilling collect samples for metallurgical testing and prepare a updated mineral resource estimate.
Turning now to slide 33 [inaudible] on a discussion of Palmarejo is Guadalupe.
Here we drilled over 20 000 meters of new Coeur principally in Guadalupe Norte and the bulk of that in the second half of the year.
We plan to drill under the 19 000 meters in the first half of 2012 Guadalupe.
Mine access development is underway from the north end of this more than 2.5 kilometer long zone so this drilling followed by resource reserve modeling will be integral to the new mining planning and budget process.
I’ll turn this back over to Mitch.
Thanks Don.
We have now positioned Coeur to capitalize on the transformation that is well underway here.
We have significantly derisked the business in terms of development risk construction risk start-up risk and balance sheet risk.
And are quickly making progress on our objective of operating more consistently and efficiently.
This all translates in to significant cash flow now being generated.
2011 was a record year for the company and 2012 is shaping up to be a repeat.
Driven by strong performance at Palmarejo and San Bartolomé again.
Kensington will begin contributing strong results in the second half of 2012 while Rochester will have full-year production for the first time from the new leach pad that was built last year.
We expect our expanded exploration program to lead to increases in silver and gold reserves and resources in 2012 and provide one component of our discipline growth strategy.
We will be pursuing high return internal growth projects in 2012 while also looking to external opportunities to future boaster our growth pipeline.
We expect to see the current positive climate for silver and gold to continue throughout 2012 which will help propel the company to a very productive year and beyond.
As we move through the year and execute our plan I expect to see our transformation to continue.
Operator we’ll now ready for any questions.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain with Duestche Bank.
Hi good afternoon Mitch and everybody.
Jorge with Deustche Bank.
My questions were two one is on the update of the legal claims at Rochester.
If you could just mention you did mention in your press release that it would have very little impact on the resource but could you also talk about ultimately if you seek to convert some of that inferred material to prove an improbable what the kind of percentage of loss could be related to that claim jump?  That's my first question.
Hi Jorge it's Mitch here.
You know it's hard to say it likely would have some impact on the resources that we reported as of December 31<sup>st</sup>.
You know it's clear that the reserves are unaffected and that's our primary focus in terms of the next seven years.
And we'll just have to wait and see how things turn out with the legal action before we can really get a handle on what the impact if any would be to the resources.
Jorge did you have a follow up?  Our next question comes from John Bridges with JPMorgan.
I guess not.
Just wanted to Mitch you've had I guess almost a year now to look at the operations in a new light with the different hat on and I just wondered how you were thinking about tweaking the strategy and you know what you thought about the right strategy for the silver companies when…  John?  Okay that question was removed out of the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaip with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi Mitch.
Hi Andrew maybe you can actually get a full question asked.
Yes either that or if their question isn't appropriate we just get yanked.
Yes be nice or you might find yourself silenced.
Fair enough.
Look we've got some questions on your expenditure levels for next year.
First one is how are you planning on reducing your G&amp;A down to around the $26 million range?  Yes I'll ask Frank to take that one Andrew.
Andrew this is Frank.
You know if you look at the year on year performance we did have an increase in G&amp;A costs from 2010 to 2011.
It went up approximately $7 million.
About roughly half of that is tied up in severance payments related to the departing CEO.
And the mine of the rest was associated with legal fees that were expended both in the corporate group and on behalf of our Mexican property.
So as we look at this year you know you see the guidance that we provided there we're looking for a substantial reduction in G&amp;A.
A lot of that will have to do with you know bringing legal expenses monitoring those closely bring those into control.
We won't have the issues related with the departing CEO.
And beyond that we have a plan in place where we're going to have some targeted reductions in some key areas some of which have already been achieved as we begin the new year.
A lot of discretionary fees and different types of funding taking place in the political front where we're trimming our contributions back.
We've done some good work to reduce our insurance cost where those are absorbed in the G&amp;A of the corporate group but a lot of it is allocated out to sides but we're doing well there.
In addition to a number of other areas that have been targeted.
Okay I guess just a follow up on that in your budget for your G&amp;A numbers how much is being allocated to legal costs for Rochester?  I'm speaking from memory but it's in the neighborhood of $2 million.
Okay.
The next thing I'd like to get a sense of is just that Rochester the residual leach operations are continuing if I'm not mistaken and I'm just wondering how much of the $2.6 to $2.9 million ounces of silver are attributed to residual leaching?  Yes Leon you want to take that?  Sure.
The leach curve drops off very quickly so as we go through this year we expect it to drop significantly.
We're at pad 3 which is the new pad will be the majority of the production.
So we can estimate what the residual would be but it would be a pretty small amount.
Okay.
If you look Andrew at 2011 total production and that was almost all residual leaching compare that to 2010 you'll see a pretty significant decline and then take that into 2012 you'll virtually see no residual leaching contribution at all.
All the guidance ounces almost all the guidance ounces are off this new pad.
Okay and then just finally with respect to your expiration expenses you've provided great breakout of your capital expenditures can you give us a sense of the breakout of the expiration expenditures?  Yes Don go ahead.
Hi Andrew this is Don Birak.
I think on the slide one of the slides in there there was a breakdown between the total capital and the total expense expiration costs.
You can see on that the total budget's right at about $40 million and about $18 $16 is for capital and the rest is for expense expiration.
Okay and then can you break it down by project?  At this stage the biggest line share of this is Palmarejo.
That's been our biggest component the last couple of years and it remains there.
Now that's going to follow by work that we're going on Joaquin which is going to be expensed in as working towards the feasibility study.
And then after that the other properties fall in line Kensington San Bartolome.
Okay.
All right that's good.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Andrew.
Our next question comes from the line of John Bridges from JPMorgan.
Hi are you there?  We already answered your question John.
Is that what happened?  What did I say that was wrong?  Sorry John go ahead.
It's your fault Wendy I'm sure.
It must be.
Yes Mitch I was just thinking you've had probably a year in the seat now in the hot seat and you know I just wondered how you thought about strategy for silver producers in you know in these markets when finding new deposits is probably more difficult than it's been in a long time?  Yes some days it feels like more than a year being in the hot seat.
I think it's been 7 months.
And it's a good question to ask.
I think what we as a team see and what we're pursuing and I think a lot of the themes that we're pursuing are probably relevant to the industry.
You know really focusing on the exploration getting more out of what you've already put in place whether that's land positions or infrastructure.
You know leveraging those investments so that you can you know really there's no better way to earn a return on a dollar than putting it back in the ground.
Proving up an ounce and processing it through your existing infrastructure.
You know so we're focused on districts you know on places where we can leverage what we have put in place and as you well know we've invested a lot of capital over the last 4 or 5 years in infrastructure and we want to get we want to squeeze every last dollar of return out of those investments that we can.
And looking at them on a more regional basis when it's applicable.
You know there's the geographic question.
You know I think our geographic diversity is fairly concentrated in Palmarejo and in San Bartolome so Mexico and Bolivia.
And you know I think for us it's important to add some additional geographic diversity as well as diversity in terms of number of operating assets.
You know although we have 4 operating mines and 1 non-operating interest really as Leon pointed out majority of that is again driven by Palmarejo and San Bartolome.
So to get our production and our cash flow spread around to as many assets as possible is something we're focused on as well.
I saw in your write up that you've made investments in 25 smaller mining companies?  $25 million in 5 companies.
Okay sorry.
And how would you characterize your relationship with those?  Is that a partnership arrangement?  Is that more of an investor?  You know different companies have different adjectives towards this part [Inaudible].
Yes you know the investments pure equity investments.
You know no additional rights or anything like that.
But the - and they vary from company to company but for the most part I would say it's a relationship it's more than a passive relationship it's one where to the extent that we can share technical knowledge or expertise really with one another we do so.
You know there's some similarities between some of those companies projects and assets that we currently operate so site visits and again some exchanging of technical information takes place.
You know and what we want to do is keep a close eye and monitor these businesses to see which ones are meeting their milestones and progressing their projects along their time tables to where they can potentially fit into our overall growth profile in terms of size location and exploration potential.
And so it's not a capital gains driven decision it's a longer term strategic portfolio that we have and not all of them will end up becoming what we'd like to think that they might become but hopefully a couple do and we can have that be a part of our longer term growth strategy here.
Okay great.
Many many thanks.
Thanks John take care.
(Operator instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Brooks with Sidoti and Company.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Adam.
Just a few quick questions here.
Could you talk about how the claim dispute of Rochester could possibly delay the addition of another heat bleach pad?  Leon do you want to…  Well we’re proceeding ahead with our permitting of the what we call Pad 5 and our plan of operation’s 9.
So at this point we’re moving ahead with all of our plans.
Okay and quickly at Palmarejo just looking at the guidance for this year gold production down a little bit.
What’s the main driver there?  The main driver at Palmarejo is the gold rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Adam.
Our next question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
Hi guys.
I’ll try again.
I’m not sure how much of it was public last time but my question was really the Kensington and that obviously your first half costs are quite high at around 17.50 an ounce and if there was anything extraordinary in there besides the fact that you’re obviously operating at a much lower-than-normal utilization but are there any extraordinary expenses any kind of you know drilling ahead or any kind of exploration work that you may be doing that is raising the cost above normal rate?  I’ll take a crack at it and Leon or anybody.
The cost really on an operating cost basis are pretty flat.
You know there’s additional capitalized expenditures relating to the definition drilling and underground development in some of these projects that Leon mentioned.
It really is the demoninator of the equation that we will give rise to the higher costs and that will really be the driver behind the lower costs then in the second half and particularly in the fourth quarter.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of John Bridges with JPMorgan.
Just testing the channels again.
I just wanted to – I know you’ve been focused on putting some new skills into the company I just wondered how things were on the labor side.
I know it’s a key issue in this industry today.
Yes it is John from you know at all levels and at all functional areas technical managerial you name it.
The – we’ve had a lot of success here putting together I think a – I’m biased but [inaudible] and [inaudible] at the site in terms of site leadership is you know it’s highly motivated smart experience people who have collectively made this decision to come and work here at a company that’s got an exciting future and a lot of potential.
And I think you know we’re all going to be beneficiaries of that whether it’s the technical services group whether it’s the Randy’s of the world the you know all the way through.
The new GM up at Kensington is great.
We’ve got a new GM at Rochester now as of a few weeks ago.
But the you know the pay for miners is definitely we’re seeing some real pressures there just like everybody I guess.
I don’t know Leon do you have anything to add to that?  No.
It’s worldwide it’s not just North America.
There’s a huge escalation in salaries and competition right now for skilled labor.
Okay.
It sounds like you’re making a lot of progress so many thanks and good luck guys.
Thanks John.
(Operator instructions).
Our next question come from the line of (Robert Mueller) with (Beauregard) Trust.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Looks like a nice quarter.
I have two questions.
What is the prospective for a dividend in the next six months?  And would you make it monthly?  And the second question is would you consider pacmanning Rye Patch just gobbling the company up – let them their management work on their previous things and have you expand Rye Patch/Core activities in the areas in which they perhaps have grabbed?  I’ll take the second question and then Frank you can take the first.
You know like we said as far as that claim dispute there at Rochester you know the reserves that we have there 20-some million ounces of silver and 270 ounces of gold are really not affected by this.
And our focus is on delivering on this ramp up with the new leach pad and producing the maximum number of ounces that we can off this new pad while perusing these expansion opportunities.
You know how things might play out is obviously in the future for us and we’ll deal with that as time goes by but no appetite or interest in pursuing the path that you asked about.
Robert I’ll speak for a minute regarding dividends.
It’s part of a big picture that we’re looking at.
You know as we seek to sustain and grow the current profitability that we’ve enjoyed since 2011 we view it a number of ways to accomplish that and I think Mitch touched on a couple of them before.
We view investments in high-rate return projects that are available to us internally as a high priority allocation of capital that we believe leads to shareholder returns.
We also believe that and obviously our spending that’s planned for this year in the area of exploration the spending allocating capital at the drill bit is a means of bringing back good returns.
But then you start to get down into these other opportunities and ways that share capital can be returned to shareholders and dividends is being – dividends are being evaluated you know the prospect for announcing a policy one way or the other is high at some point in the future and we have stated that you know when we get to a point where we achieved a certain level of operational consistency we’re going to be comfortable with moving down that path.
I couldn’t say today that we’ve worked out all the details as to whether that would be monthly or how the frequency of a payment would be but it’s definitely on the list of things to be evaluated but we’re a bit more focused at the moment on continuing to achieve those shareholder returns through some of these other mechanisms.
Okay we’ll stay tuned.
Thank you.
All right.
You do that.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Wendy Yang for any closing remarks.
Thank you Operator.
Thank you everyone and I hope you will join us for the next quarter for the first quarter of 2012.
It’s certainly a brand new year for us.
We will be out at the BMO Conference next week as well as with UBS up in Boston so I hope to see some of you at those shows.
And we will – for those of you who will be visiting in Toronto I hope it’s not going to be freezing as it normally is.
So thank you everyone and you know where to find me and we appreciate your support.
Thank.
Thank you Operator.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Welcome to our first quarter conference call.
I’m Stefany Bales Director of Corporate Communications.
This call is being webcast on our website at www.coeur.com where we have also posted our first quarter 2012 financial results slide deck to accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available on our website for one week following today’s call.
We will be discussing some forward-looking information today and we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please review the cautionary statement shown on slide two of our financial results slide deck and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry described in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
On our call today are Mitchell Krebs Frank Hanagarne Leon Hardy Randy Buffington and Don Birak.
With that I’ll turn it over to Mitch.
Hello and thanks for participating in our first quarter call.
Beginning on slide five we had a very solid first three months of 2012.
Our Palmarejo mine in Mexico and our San Bartolomè mine in Bolivia both started the year strong.
As planned our Kensington mine in Alaska spent the majority of the quarter positioning for a return to sustainable production while our Rochester mine in Nevada completed its first full quarter of active mining after a five-year hiatus.
As we move through the second quarter we are seeing more of the same from Palmarejo and San Bartolomè and higher production out of Rochester and Kensington.
This should all translate into a very strong second quarter and keep us on pace for a great 2012.
Equally important we are already seeing the impact of our ramped-up exploration initiatives especially at our Kensington and Palmarejo mines.
We expect to report results throughout the remainder of the year and to end 2012 with increases in both reserves and resources.
We are frustrated that all precious metals equities including ours have seen a significant short-term correction despite the fact that silver and gold prices remain at very healthy levels.
We don’t see the fundamentals for either metal as having changed.
The U.S.
fiscal outlook isn’t improving Europe’s issues are not going away by any means and loose monetary policies around the globe are likely to remain in place.
For silver industrial demand is projected to grow over 4% annually over the next three years while investment demand remains strong.
Meanwhile mine supply grew only 1.4% last year.
Lastly we are maintaining our 2012 full-year guidance as we laid it out to you in February.
Now Frank will take us through the first quarter financial highlights.
To underscore Mitch’s comments on prices slide seven shows the company’s average realized prices during the first quarter and that they increased 4% for silver and 24% for gold over the year-ago quarter to $32.61 per ounce and $1702.00 per ounce respectively.
Year-to-date silver is up 8% and gold has risen 7%.
These very attractive prices allow us to generate significant cash flow.
Quarterly metal sales increased 3% to 205 million due to higher prices and a 17% increase in the number of ounces of silver sold compared to last year’s first quarter.
Silver contributed 68% of the company’s first quarter sales compared to 66% during the first quarter of 2011.
Operating cash flow before working capital changes increased 4% to 93.8 million and adjusted earnings were 41.5 million or $.46 per share 11% and 10% increased respectively over first quarter a year ago.
First quarter production spending was flat and actually declined by 25% on a per-ounce basis to $6.29 per ounce.
This was mostly driven by a drop in costs at our Palmarejo operation.
While we’re seeing the same cost pressures as other companies in areas such as diesel consumables and labor our operations are offsetting these pressures through efficiency gains.
Our G&amp;A costs also declined during the quarter down 38% compared to the last quarter a year ago.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled 153.2 million at the end of the quarter and increased to approximately 175 million at the end of April.
Turning to slide eight our 2012 financial and operational guidance remains unchanged.
We expect to produce 18.5 to 20 million ounces of silver and 210 000 to 230 000 ounces of gold.
Cash operating costs are expected to range between $6.50 and $7.50 per silver ounce this year.
Costs at Kensington while high in the first quarter are expected to decline throughout the remainder of the year and average 1 150 to 1 250 per ounce for the full year.
Capital expenditures exploration and G&amp;A expenses all remain on track.
Now moving to slide nine it illustrates that the company kept its share count level for nearly two years.
As we mentioned before we are evaluating a return of capital policy for shareholders and expect to have more to say about this mid-year.
We’re focused on achieving operational consistency at all of our mines.
We believe that a dividend or share buyback program is important but that it should not impede the company’s ability to deploy free cash flow into high-return growth opportunities in order to generate value for our shareholders.
With that I’ll turn it over to Leon.
Starting with slide 11 both Palmarejo and San Bartolomè our two largest operations had strong first quarters.
Our Kensington gold mine made excellent progress during the first quarter and is now in full production ahead of schedule.
There is still work to do and projects to complete but I’m pleased to report that Kensington is on the way to becoming a more consistent sustainable producer.
Operations at our Rochester mine in Nevada are gaining momentum and are on track for a strong 2012 now that the mine is back in production after the construction of a new pad there last year.
Looking at slide 12 silver production increased 19% to 4.9 million ounces while gold production declined 17% due to the planned temporary mining reduction at Kensington.
Consolidated cash operating costs dropped 25% to $6.29 per silver ounce while Kensington reflected reduced operating activity during the year.
On the next slide Palmarejo metal production sales and operating cash flow all posted solid double-digit gains compared to last year’s first quarter.
Increased in the number of tons milled and recovery were the main drivers to this strong performance.
Palmarejo’s first cash operating costs of -$2.27 per sliver ounce were sharply lower compared to last year’s $4.80 per ounce.
Palmarejo accounted for 60% of the company’s first quarter sales and 84% of its operating cash flow.
Slide 14 shows San Bartolomè’s first quarter silver production of 1.6 million ounces exceeding budget and was 7% lower compared to last year’s first quarter.
The operation processed lower-grade material during the first quarter and was impacted by heavier-than-normal rainfall.
San Bartolomè contributed 41.4 million in sales and 20.8 million in operating cash flow for the first quarter.
Moving on to the next slide we announced on April 26<sup>th</sup> that Kensington was resuming full production ahead of schedule.
You’ll recall that we made the decision late last year to temporarily reduce mining activities in order to complete a number of projects to improve operational efficiency and consistency at Kensington.
Excellent progress has been made on these projects which include completion of an underground paste backfill plant an upgrade of the mine’s electrical infrastructure and construction of several surface facilities.
Underground development and infill drilling are also advancing ahead of schedule.
The mine produced 7 400 ounces of gold in the first quarter at a high cost.
However the cost is expected to decline as production increases over the remainder of the year.
We anticipate full-year production of 82 600 to 86 500 ounces of gold at Kensington at cash costs of 1 150 to 1 250 per ounce.
Approximately two-thirds of this production is expected to take place during the second half of the year.
Slide 16 shows photos of the projects now wrapping up at Kensington.
Turning to slide 17 Rochester has just completed its first full quarter of operations with the new leach pad in place.
As a result silver production increased 32% and gold production increased 265%.
Production is expected to increase further in the second quarter and throughout 2012.
Rochester’s cash operating costs were $23.35 per ounce during the first quarter and are expected to decline as production increases throughout 2012.
Rochester’s metal sales rose 31% to 18.8 million and operating cash flow increased from less than 1 million in the first quarter of 2011 to 7.2 million in 2012.
There is an outstanding legal dispute at Rochester involving unpatented claims.
This dispute does not impact any of the operations reserves.
We maintain that Coeur Rochester has valid possessory rights and superior title to the claims in dispute.
The matter is scheduled to go to trial in November.
Now Don will take us through the exploration highlights.
Thank you Leon.
Moving to slide 19.
Our $40 million exploration program in 2012 is 53% higher than what we spent last year.
We continued drilling in the first quarter at the same pace we had in the second half of 2011 with up to 16 drills and crews operating at our properties.
We completed nearly 72 000 meters of drilling and sampling in the first quarter and we expect to continue this pace during the second.
Several programs generated positive results this quarter most notably Guadalupe Kensington and Joaquin.
In addition we continue exploration activities at San Bartolomè and Rochester.
Slide 20 shows highlights from our Palmarejo program.
Over half of the company’s first quarter exploration activities took place at Palmarejo with six drills in operation two of those underground and four on the surface.
The primary goal of drilling in the Palmarejo district is to increase mineral reserves by expanding and upgrading inferred mineral resources to at least indicated confidence levels.
We plan to turn our focus to drilling in the second half of the year to identify new resources and testing new targets.
Switching to slide 21 drilling at Guadalupe was focused on the northern part of this plush two-kilometer-long system which will be the initial production area next year.
Slide 21 shows a longitudinal section looking southwest and some asset results from drilling in the first quarter as well as some from 2011.
Infill drilling continues at Guadalupe with three drills and the system remains open for expansion in all directions.
We expect to have all planned infill drilling in the northern half of Guadalupe completed before the end of the second quarter and then shift our drilling to other targets to identify and expand mineral resources.
The next slide shows a very important part of our 2012 program taking place at Kensington where we operated four core drills in the quarter.
The majority of this drilling took place in Block K of the lower part of Zone 10.
The zone spans over 400 vertical feet and remains open at depth for future expansion.
A new program of 35 000 feet of drilling is planned for 2012.
Near the end of last month we had completed over 70% of the program.
We are excited by the results at Block K and will keep three drills turning there until the program is complete.
As this drilling wraps up we intend to shift to other targets.
In addition to Block K we also drilled at Raven and on a new target due south of Kensington with one core drill.
Later this year we expect to add a surface drill to the Kensington project and drill several targets in the immediate mine area.
Slide 23 shows our exploration at Joaquin in Argentina focused on infill drilling of inferred mineral resources at the La Negra and La Morocha deposits.
In these two deposits we have defined 20 million contained silver ounces of indicated mineral resources and 48 million of silver in the inferred category.
Coeur currently has a 51% share of these ounces.
Drilling was also performed to collect metallurgical tests for Joaquin.
Late in the first quarter exploration focused on the eastern part of the La Negra zone.
In this slide you can see La Morocha and La Negra drill hole locations and we have highlighted the location of several infill holes.
Mitch?  Thanks Don.
Our focus on operational consistency and execution over the past nine months is paying off and we are now positioned for an even stronger second quarter and a solid 2012.
Palmarejo and San Bartolomè are operating efficiently and consistently.
Our decision to take a time out at Kensington to improve operations is proving to be the correct one.
There is still much to do but our people are doing a great job.
Additionally Rochester is gaining momentum and is set to have a strong initial year of new production.
I’m excited about what’s happening on the exploration front and I’m looking forward to where we’ll end the year on reserves and resources.
We view exploration as the life-blood of our business and one of the many ways to create value for our shareholders so we’re drilling as aggressively as we can.
Look for us to implement a return of capital policy mid-year and in the meantime we’ll do everything we can to contain costs in order to expand our margins and provide the best leverage to prices we can for our shareholders.
Thanks again for your time today.
(Operator instructions).
Your first question comes for the line of Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning Mitch Jorge with DB here.
Two questions.
One is if you could enhance a little bit your comments that you just made at the end about your return on capital policy.
When you said define by midyear is that July/August or kind of in line with your next quarterly results?  And along what lines are you thinking.
Hi Jorge.
When we say midyear yes it’s probably most likely in conjunction with our second quarter announcement which will be in early August.
And at this point in time it’s subject to the board’s discretion.
Right now everything is on the table and we’ll continue to evaluate all of those alternatives between now and then.
My second question was if you could give us some update on the political collar in Bolivia in light of their inaugural nationalization of this year in electric utility from the Spanish.
What are your senses to how the government’s attitude is toward the mining sector through COMIBOL and there were some attempts made last year that were put down.
But if you could just kind of talk about what is it and about your structure in Bolivia that makes you think that your assets are secure down there?  Sure we continue to operate at San Bartolomè efficiently and effectively.
The key there like we’ve said before is really how we hold our mining rights through a series of leases and joint ventures leases with COMIBOL itself and the joint ventures with several of the local cooperatives and that has really been the key to our ability to continue operating at San Bartolomè the way we have and the way expect to continue operating there.
Our relationships there in Bolivia both at the local level and national level remain I’d call them positive.
And in the meantime we continue to generate a lot of cash flow out of our San Bartolomè operation.
As far as the nationalization announced on May 1 of the Spanish Utility kind of like Argentina in that it seems to be a fairly specific targeted thing that the government has done there that as far as mining goes is far away from our area focus and we believe we’ll just continue to do what we’ve been doing there.
I’m sorry Mitch I don’t want to monopolize here but to clarify.
You operate in Bolivia through ownership of these joint ventures with locals.
In your filings it says that you own 100% of San Bar’s but could you quantify through the JV’s; what is the real kind of local ownership content of the mine.
Yes we have leases and joint ventures.
We have 100% of the economics so that might be the 100% you’re referring to.
Now we pay royalties in exchange for those joint ventures and leases.
So COMIBOL and the cooperatives get from us anywhere from 2 ½ to 4% royalties from our mining activity.
So we have 100% interest in the mining rights through those arrangements and by virtue of those arrangements they get royalty payments from us.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Thorp with Sonoma Capital Management.
Your line is open.
Jeff Thorp from Sonoma Capital Management? I’m sorry I apologize.
My question has been asked.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Lipton with Lipton Financial Services.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Krebs.
Okay well thank you everyone for your time and interest in the company.
Operator we do see a couple of other people that have entered the queue if anybody else wants to ask a question?   We do have a question of John Bridges with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Morning Mitch everybody how are you doing? Hey John okay how about you?  It’s been a busy couple of weeks.
Just wondered could you give us a little bit of more background of the fair-value adjustment and what triggered that? Yes I’ll let Frank that that one.
Hello John this is Frank.
In the fair-market value adjustments there are I think three or four key areas.
We have concentrate sales foreign exchange the Franco Nevada Royalty and then also some zero-cost collars on gold at the Kensington property.
The biggest driver in all of that is the Franco Nevada Royalty.
It typically would dominate what’s happening in that account on a quarter to quarter basis.
It represents nearly 100% of the quarter-over-quarter changes you see between 2011 and 2012.
The components that factor into the Franco Nevada Royalty are; first the level of production that we’ve achieved how gold prices have run quarter-to-quarter.
Those two factors if you look at 2011 versus 2012 gold prices up substantially we increased incrementally a little over 3 000 more ounces in the first quarter 2012 than 2011 and that’s the explanation for that increase.
Why would it be – what would the surprise – what were the triggers that caused such a big change?  There really isn’t a surprise you know for us.
We of course watch this closely quarter-to-quarter and we anticipated that with the higher gold prices that this would be a predictable outcome.
Okay.
So could you give us a bit of guidance to whether there will be adjustments like this in coming quarters this year? You know as you watch the price of gold and make your estimates of what gold production will be achieved at Palmarejo the scenarios that are favorable to our bookings are when gold prices remain flat or decline.
And it’s more unfavorable if the prices are on a steep upward trend.
John it’s Mitch here.
There’s a minimum obligation associated with that royalty of I think 240 000 ounces.
So that liability on the balance sheet that changes from quarter-to-quarter is an estimate of what those future royalty payments to Franco Nevada will be over that minimum obligation.
So as gold prices increase that estimate of those future payments goes up and that adjustment gets taken through the P&amp;L as a non-cash fair-value adjustment.
So if gold prices go down we would see obviously a non-cash adjustment going the other way.
That’s one of the reasons we show the adjusted earnings is to back up the noise associated with those changes from quarter-to-quarter in those estimated future payments.
Just remind me; when does this move out of the cash flow and into the income statement?  In a year or two’s time? So the 240 000 ounces should roll off over the next three or four years I think as we have it scheduled out.
That royalty is tied to 50% of the gold production out of Palmarejo.
Last year Palmarejo produced right at about 125 000 ounces so in that year 62 500 ounces went towards that minimum.
So if you just do the math there as far as 240 000 ounces left I guess that equals about four more years.
Okay okay.
We’ll anyway best of luck with the rest of the operations which seem to be working nicely to plan.
Yes thanks a lot John.
Okay good luck guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Lichtenheldt with UBS your line is open.
Good afternoon guys and congratulations on a good quarter.
Thanks Chris.
I just wanted to ask just at Palmarejo the exploration you’re doing can you remind us if all the ounces that you’re looking at now all the areas you’re looking at would those all be subject to the Franco Royalty? Or are there areas there that you can explore that would be outside of that?  No the area of influence for that royalty covers all the immediate mine area as well as the areas outside of the immediate mine areas where we currently have drilling taking place.
On slide 20 with Guadalupe and the other stars pretty much all of that would be captured by the royalties is that right?  Yes that imagine there is basically a reflection of the area of influence on that royalty or for that royalty.
Okay perfect secondly at San Bartolome you’re still mining I think well ahead of reserve grade.
Can you give us a sense of when that would come down and when you’d be into the lower grade material?  Leon you want to add to that?  Well our grades vary depending on which phase of the mining we’re in and we’re currently mining in phases five and six.
Most of those have a higher grade than the lower areas.
So on a mine plan basis we’re probably – we’ll keep stretching out the mine plan as much as we can but right now we’re pushing about two years of higher grade.
Okay and then what are the areas beyond five and six look like in terms of grade?  It comes down.
I think if you take a look at our life of mine schedule you can pretty well pick that off the chart.
Okay.
That’s what I figured.
Okay great thanks.
And then lastly just on Kensington I don’t think you’ve revised your cash cost forecasts for the year but given things are going more quickly then you expected could there be – you know could those cost be better or is the quicker-than-expect nature of the work there just going to be offset by other inflation-type costs or can you just comment a bit on that maybe?  Yes.
I wouldn’t expect anything outside of that range that we’ve provided here.
Obviously what that means is that by the fourth quarter we’ll see cost on the low end of that average given where we are in the first quarter or where we were in the first quarter.
So we’ll be seeing costs as we end the year in the $900 range to pull that average down.
But I think for the full year that average will be right around that $1 150 to $1 250 an ounce range.
Okay that’s perfect thanks a lot.
There are no further questions at this time I’ll now turn the call over to Mr.
Mitchell Krebs.
Okay thanks everybody for your interest and time and look forward to speaking with you again in early August.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is [Roshandha] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coeur d’Alene Mines Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Ms.
Wendy Yang.
Ma’am you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Welcome to our second quarter conference call.
I’m Wendy Yang Vice President of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast on our website at www.coeur.com where we have also posted the second quarter 2012 financial results presentation to accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of this call will be available on our website until August 14th.
We will be discussing some forward-looking information today and we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please refer to the cautionary statement shown on slide two of our financial results presentation and review the risk factors including some that are unique to our industry also described in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
On our call today we have Mitchell Krebs; Frank Hanagarne; Leon Hardy; Randy Buffington; and Don Birak.
With that I’ll turn it over to Mitch.
Thanks Wendy.
Hello.
And thanks for participating in our second quarter call.
We delivered strong operating results during the quarter which led to very robust free cash flow.
We expect this performance to continue throughout the second half of the year and allow us to achieve the high end of our 2012 production guidance in the low end of our cash operating cost guidance.
Second quarter silver production remained consistent with the prior quarter and quarterly gold production was up 44%.
Thanks to rising output from our Kensington mine in Alaska and Rochester mine in Nevada.
These strong operating results are driving solid financial performance and generating significant free cash flow for our shareholders which are the primary factors that led to the unprecedented decision by the company’s Board of Directors to authorize $100 million share repurchase program which represents approximately 5.5 million or just over 6% of the company’s outstanding shares.
This program reflects the Board’s and management’s confidence in the company’s underlying cash flow and the long-term value the company represents for shareholders.
Controlling cost is a challenge throughout the mining industry.
During the second quarter our cash operating cost per ounce of silver were flat compared to the prior quarter and our cash operating cost per ounce of gold declined by 50%.
Although we have seen cost pressures in areas such as labor contractor costs and consumables including cyanide and grinding media we are offsetting this increases through operational efficiencies for the most part.
We are pleased with the success of our exploration program which is the largest in the company’s history.
We identified a new zone at Palmarejo located near the existing processing facilities and we continue to expand the Guadalupe deposit which is located 6 kilometers away from the Palmarejo mine.
At Kensington we completed more definition drilling in the first six months of the year than we did in all of 2011 which is increasing our confidence level in the ore body we are mining at Kensington.
We also reported an updated resource estimate for the Joaquin silver and gold project in Argentina as we said we do.
There have been some negative events in Bolivia over the past few months regarding nationalization activities that are worth addressing.
First the actions the Bolivian government recently took with other companies were not a result of any federal initiative or strategy to nationalize the natural resource sector rather the Bolivian government has stated that their actions were taken to resolve conflicts specifically related to those mines and those communities.
Secondly our San Bartolome mine is a very unique operation unlike the high-grade underground mines that make up the majority of the historic silver mining industry in Bolivia San Bartolome is a high volume low-grade operation that uses a high-tech leaching process to recover the silver contained in dumps and deposits found on the surface of the Cerro Rico Mountain.
San Bartolome is also unique because it produces value added high quality dual rate product on-site versus shipping concentrate out of the country for further refining.
Finally and probably most importantly we continue to have very positive and constructive relationships with the local community and with the cooperatives with whom we are partners at San Bartolome.
In return the cooperatives are strong supporters of the Morales administration.
We have been successfully operating in Bolivia for over four years now and because of these factors we believe we’ll continue to successfully and responsibly operate in Bolivia going forward.
Now Frank will take us through the second quarter financial highlights.
Thank you Mitch.
The table on slide six illustrates the increase sales growing cash balance and solid operating cash flow achieved in the second quarter.
Total metal sales increased 24% over last quarter and 10% over the second quarter of 2011 to $254.4 million.
Adjusted earnings for the quarter totaled $28 million or $0.31 per share which beat the analyst coverage on Bloomberg of $0.20.
Second quarter EBITDA was $102.6 million up $5.8 over the first quarter.
Net income totaled $23 million compared to $4 million in the first quarter a 475% increase.
Included in the second quarter net income was a $4.8 million impairment charge reflecting our business decisions and production at Martha later this year.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $113.2 million up 566% over last quarter.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $200.3 million up 31% over the last quarter and 87% over the second quarter a year ago.
Slide seven shows the increase in silver and gold ounces sold in the second quarter and a significant reduction in cash operating cost per gold ounce.
Silver ounces sold totaled $5.6 million up 30% from the first quarter and 37% over second quarter of 2011.
Gold ounces sold increased 53% over last quarter at 59 579 ounces up 19% over the second quarter of 2011.
Consolidated cash operating cost per silver ounce were relatively flat in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Cash operating cost per silver ounce were higher in the first half compared to the first half of 2011 due primarily to the increase cost of consumables at San Bartolome higher maintenance cost at Palmarejo and increased cost at Rochester in 2012 due to the resumption of active mining late in 2011.
Cash operating cost per gold ounce at Kensington were $1 348 50% lower than the first quarter.
The average realized price per ounce of silver was $29.28 which is down 10% from the first quarter and 25% from the second quarter of 2011.
The average gold price per ounce was $1 610 5% lower than the first quarter and 7% higher than second quarter of 2011.
Silver contributed 63% of the company’s total metal sales in the quarter compared to 69% a year ago.
The graph on slide eight shows that the company has kept its share count level for nearly two years as part of our commitment to generate value for shareholders we implemented $100 million share repurchase program reflecting the confidence we have and forceability to generate cash flow in the company’s long-term value.
Additionally Board has finalized the $100 million full year revolving credit facility and provided a notice to repay the remaining outstanding balance of the Kensington term loan facility from existing cash.
With that I’ll turn it over to Leon.
Thanks Frank.
As Mitch mentioned at the start of the call all four of our operating mines are performing according to plan which is leading to strong operational performance.
Our Kensington gold mine returned to full production in the second quarter with the completion of all major improvement projects.
We are now focussing on consistent and sustainable production levels.
Similarly at our Rochester mine both silver and gold production increased over the first quarter while cash operating cost declined compared to the first quarter.
Production at Palmarejo mine remains strong and consistent at 2.4 million ounces of silver and 31 258 ounces of gold.
Cash operating costs per silver ounce were slightly higher than the second quarter primarily due to increased maintenance costs.
Silver production at San Bartolomé mine was consistent with the first quarter at 1.5 million ounces.
Looking at slide 11 silver production remained the same as the first quarter while both production increased 44%.
Cash operating costs per silver ounce increased slightly from $6.29 per ounce in the first quarter to $6.41 per ounce in the second quarter.
Cash operating cost per gold ounce at Kensington dropped dramatically by 50% from the first quarter with our resumption of full production in April.
Randy will now take us through a brief performance overview of each of our sites.
Thank you Leon.
On slide 13 second quarter production at Palmarejo remains strong and consistent.
Tons process declined compared to prior quarters but was offset by higher silver recoveries and a high grades from underground operations.
Underground operations contributed one-third of total tons mined which is in line with prior quarters.
We achieved record silver recovery rates at an average of 84% during the second quarter.
Costs were higher than prior quarters due primarily to consumable costs and additional waste tons moved in the open pit to benefit the 2013 production plan.
Heading into 2013 as Guadalupe becomes a new source of ore Palmarejo will begin shifting more and more to primary underground production.
Development advanced to Guadalupe twin declines progressed as plan during the second quarter.
Guadalupe is on schedule to meet our initial production startup for early 2013.
Turning to slide 14 although higher than prior quarters San Bartolomé costs are 14% below budget year-to-date.
The mine is performing consistently and according to the mine plant producing 1.5 million ounces of silver in the second quarter.
We expect production to be slightly higher in the second half of the year with the completion of several infrastructure-related projects.
Moving to slide 15 as Leon mentioned Kensington returned to full production in the second quarter resulting in a dramatic jump in production over the first quarter to 21 572 ounces of gold and significantly lower cash operating cost of $1 348 per gold ounce.
We remained focus on achieving sustainable production levels at Kensington and expect cash operating cost per ounce to decline further to $900 per gold ounce by the end of the year.
The mill is performing well with a strong recovery rate of 94% and the backfill paste plant is performing above plan which is bringing improved -- important flexibility to the operation.
Slide 16 the expansion completed lately in 2011 at Rochester resulted in significantly higher second quarter metal production.
The mine produced 712 706 ounces of silver a 61% increase over the first quarter.
Gold production increased 91% to 10 120 ounces and cash operating costs declined 58% from the first quarter to $9.83 per silver ounce.
We expect to see production continue to rise during the second half of the year.
Now Don will take us through the exploration highlights.
Thank you Randy.
We continue with our aggressive drilling and sampling campaign this quarter that began in the second half of 2011.
And at the peak we had up to 17 drills and sampling crews in operation in all our mines and exploration sites.
As we advanced this large program our teams continue to emphasize working safely.
That commitment was recognized this quarter by the receipt of three awards from The International Society of Mines Safety Professionals.
The Palmarejo district continues to be primary focus of our exploration efforts and investment.
One of the most exciting areas of Palmarejo is Guadalupe the deposits mineral resource tonnage is now over 60% measured and indicated and over 2.5 kilometers long southeast to northwest with significant potential to grow by upgrading and expanding metal resources further.
Our main goal in the first half of this year was to upgrade Guadalupe’s metal resources especially those near where we plan to begin mining.
And we continue to receive good results from infill drilling.
For the remainder of the year we will focus our efforts on exploring for more resources at Guadalupe and other targets in the district.
Earlier in the second quarter we commissioned the team of exploration of mine geologist to establish new drill targets near our Palmarejo mill.
Slide 19 illustrates the progress we are making at one of these new targets called La Blanca Norte located 500 meters northwest of the mill.
We’re seeing encouraging results from five of the initial 13 core holes drilled at this site all of which intersected silver and gold bearing quartz veins.
We believe these drills represent the upper part of our typical Palmarejo style mineral system.
The next drilling phase at this zone will test mineralized quartz-rich structures deeper and on strike to the northwest.
This area has not been drilled in the past.
We completed the helicopter-borne geophysical survey over the four Palmarejo property to assist target generation.
This survey data will be used for years to come and is already huge targets are being evaluated on the ground.
Finally we are evaluating the potential of the La Patria deposit situated southwest of Guadalupe to be a standalone operation to provide additional ore to the Palmarejo mill or both.
Towards this end we commenced the Phase I metallurgical program recently.
Results from this metallurgical work will be used to design more detailed second phase test and further exploration drilling.
Slide 20 illustrates the results of ongoing exploration at the Joaquin project in Santa Cruz Argentina.
The goal of the 2012 program was to upgrade inferred mineral resources to measured and indicated confidence levels.
Here we present the results of an updated mineral resource estimate for Joaquin.
Measured and indicated silver resources now stand at 39.7 million contained ounces while inferred silver resources totaled 31.4 million contained ounces.
The new estimates incorporated 16 707 meters of core drilling and 123 new core holes.
Data from an additional 6 231 meters of infill drilling will be used to update Joaquin’s mineral resources again.
Mitch? Thanks Don.
Heading into the second half of the year we’ll maintain our focus on achieving our plan and on generating even more free cash flow as both Kensington and Rochester continue to accelerate production rates.
We’ll remain committed to our aggressive drilling program designed to increase reserves and resources at year end and we will opportunistically repurchase shares.
This execution is what gives us confidence in our ability to achieve the high end of our 2012 silver and gold production guidance in the low-end of our cash operating cost guidance.
Looking ahead we believe the backdrop from metals prices remains positive over the long-term.
We believe combinative monetary policies around the world will eventually lead to even higher silver and gold prices.
We expect that there will be a renewed focus on the magnitude of the structural fiscal issues here in the U.S.
once we get past the upcoming elections and once Congress works through the year end tax and fiscal issues facing the country which we believe will eventually weaken the U.S.
dollar and be good for gold and silver.
We anticipate growing investment and industrial demand for silver and gold from the world emerging economies and we see some significant potential new sources of supply of gold and silver being delayed or deferred which should also benefit prices and finally we anticipate central banks will keep being buyers of gold.
We’ll continue down the path here at Coeur d’Alene Mines that is focused on strategic planning and execution and discipline which will keep generating substantial free cash flow.
Over the long-term we are convinced these efforts will produce the levels of returns for shareholders that we all expect to see.
Thanks again for your time today.
And operator we are now ready for any questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) And we do have a question from the line of Michael Dudas.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Good morning everybody.
Hey Mike.
How you doing? Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Terrific.
Thank you.
Well done so far for the first half.
So two thoughts Mitch first maybe if you could revisit or talk about the company’s actions earlier this quarter to attempt to raise debt financing and what was the reasons and thought process behind it and again how it got pulled.
I guess the follow-on to that how you are thinking given all the issues in the mining industry with attention to capital costs and royalties and governments et cetera.
Your capital allocation towards company’s assets shares and companies.
Is it going to be -- without giving up too much information is it going to be more of a major big targets or you are going to try to cultivate a lot of smaller targets away from your core businesses at core? And is that one of the reasons why -- from say you can tied into where you need the money for? Yeah.
Okay.
Taking the first question our intent with the proposed notes offering was to add a very conservative amount of low costs flexible capital under the balance sheet to help accelerate some growth initiatives within the company.
It was entirely opportunistic and what we experienced when we did enter the market with that proposed offering was a set of market conditions that at that time that weren’t receptive to that offering.
And so we weren’t going to chase a deal.
We wanted to maintain discipline in terms of what we’d be willing to do and so we made the decision to withdraw the offering at that time and that’s where that was left about a month ago.
So that was sort of the intent and the thinking.
Market just wasn’t there at the time and because we don’t need the funds it wasn’t something that we were willing to be a price taker on.
So as we look forward to your second point capital allocation and how we think about investing in new opportunities? As you well know there are -- as we look across the landscape there are lot of opportunities out there now that do represent very attractive growth opportunities for a company our size.
We are a company that’s not too small but yet not too big to where transactions and opportunities that can move the needle for us.
There are plenty of those out there and we’re constantly evaluating those.
We do think that the large type of projects where the capital the risk profile those kinds of opportunities are not at the top of our list.
We see there being plenty of opportunities that are more of a bite-sized nature that fit in strategically with our business that will pass the test in terms of return rigor and criteria that have very accretive metrics associated with them and there are enough of those.
So those are the kinds of things that we are looking at externally to not only grow the business but to grow within in an intelligent way that we think will generate value for shareholders.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> I appreciate your color.
Thanks Mitch.
Yeah.
Sure.
Mike.
Thanks.
And we do have another question from the line of Andrew Kaip.
Good morning guys.
All right.
Good afternoon.
Hey Andrew.
Hi Mitch.
Hey.
How you doing? Pretty good.
But I’ve got one question specifically with Palmarejo.
I noticed that the silver recoveries came up quite considerably in the quarter and I’m just wondering is that something that we should expect moving forward or was that other attractive operations during the quarter? Leon do want to take that? Sure.
As you realize well as we’ve gone deeper in the deposit we are getting out of the oxide areas and as we do that both in the surface and to a certain extent underground.
We are getting into the material that has much cleaner and goes through the mill with a much better recovery plus we’ve gotten more operating time and just better at keep making the changes and the blending happen.
Okay.
So that’s something we should show based on your internal expectations.
I mean should we be looking at recoveries in the mid-80s now? Yeah.
I would say…  Low to mid-80s.
Yeah.
Low…   Okay.
Great.
That’s great.
Thanks very much.
Yeah.
Thanks Andrew.
We will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Krebs.
Operator would you pull again please for questions if there any unless get I think all that? Okay.
(Operator Instructions) Okay.
Well sounds like there is no other questions.
So with that I just want to thank you again for taking your time.
I know there is a lot going on today and I appreciate your time and interest and have a good rest of the day and we’ll talk to you at the end of the third quarter.
Thanks.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coeur d'Alene Mines Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Quarterly Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Wendy Yang you may begin your conference.
Thank you Matthew.
Welcome to our third quarter conference call.
I am Wendy Yang; I am Vice President of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast on our website at www.coeur.com where we have also posted the third quarter 2012 financial results presentation to accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of this call will be available on our website until November 20th.
We will be discussing some forward-looking information today and we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please refer to the cautionary statement shown on slide two of our financial presentation and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry that are also described in our latest annual and quarterly financial results filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
On our call today we have Mitchell Krebs; Frank Hanagarne; Leon Hardy; Randy Buffington and Don Birak.
With that I’ll turn it over to Mitch.
Hello and thanks for participating in our third quarter call.
The company’s performance for the nine months has been strong with silver production totaling 14.2 million ounces and gold production exceeding 165 000 ounces.
But we did had a disappointing third quarter at our two largest operations.
Palmarejo’s production was down due to unexpected underground challenges that were encountered in September in high grade area of the mine and to a transition phase in the open-pit that negatively impacted grades.
It's important to stress that what impacted third quarter production in the 76 clavo in Palmarejo’s underground operation is a timing issue and is temporary in nature.
No reserves are lost or at risk and the area where poor ground conditions were encountered comprised less than 10% of this specific area of the underground mine.
We're still mining in some areas of the 76 clavo and we will go back and mine the second secondary stopes in this area that impacted the third quarter once we complete some additional back filling in previously mined primary stopes.
In the meantime we will rely more on the fully developed 108 clavo in the underground mine.
At San Bartolomé the operations lost of days of production in late August due to power disruptions which reduced the number of tons processed and increased costs on a per ounce basis.
Our other two operations performed well during the quarter.
Our Rochester mine in Nevada and our Kensington mine in Alaska both delivered higher production at lower costs.
Company-wide we expect 2012 production to total 18.5 million to 19 million ounces of silver and between 215 000 and 225 000 ounces of gold.
We expect cash operating costs to be approximately $7.50 per ounce of silver.
As we look ahead to the 2013 we expect silver and gold production levels to be consistent with 2011 and with what we expect to produce here in 2012.
We will be providing more specific 2013 guidance early next year.
During the quarter we acted on a $100 million share repurchase program that our Board authorized in June by repurchasing $10 million of our common shares and we’ve reduced outstanding debt by nearly $100 million over the past 12 months which has left just $48 million of remaining debt on the balance sheet compared to total shareholders equity of $2.1 billion.
In addition to reducing debt we continue to invest in the company's future through aggressive exploration pursuing capital projects that help ensure the sustainability of our operations and by making strategic investments in promising non-producing companies.
Now Frank will take us through the third quarter financial highlights.
Thank you.
The table on slide six shows that metal sales totaled $230.6 million down 9% from the second quarter.
Adjusted earnings for the quarter totaled $25.8 million or $0.29 per share while third quarter EBITDA was $86.8 million.
Prior to changes in working capital Coeur generated $77.3 million in operating cash flow in the third quarter ending with $143.6 million of cash equivalents and short-term investments for the quarter.
Slide seven shows lower silver ounces sold in the third quarter due primarily to lower production rates at Palmarejo.
Gold ounces sold remained relatively flat.
Its important to point out that the company sold an abnormally large amount of metal in the third quarter of 2011; 6.2 million ounces of silver and over 67 000 ounces of gold compared to metal sales in the normal quarter which for us are around 4.5 million silver ounces and 55 000 to 60 000 ounces of gold.
Consolidated cash operating costs were $9.05 per silver ounce compared to $6.41 per silver ounce in the second quarter.
This increase on a per ounce basis was driven more by lower production rates and by increased spending.
On a dollar spend basis we are actually doing quite well.
That said we did see temporary increases at Palmarejo and mining costs associated with additional underground support measures maintenance costs and waste haulage costs related to the transition in open-pit operations.
The average realized price per ounce of silver was $30.09 and $1 654 per ounce of gold in the third quarter.
These were fairly flat compared to the second quarter but were down 21% and 2% respectively compared with last year’s third quarter.
Silver contributed 59% of the company's total metal sales during the third quarter 2012 compared to 68% during the third quarter of 2011.
The graph on slide eight shows that the company has kept its share count level for the past two years is now reducing it's outstanding shares by approximately 0.5 million shares due to the repurchase program implemented in June.
The quarter also repaid the remaining 72 million outstanding balance of the Kensington term loan facility the largest piece of our long-term debt resulting in total remaining debt of 47.4 million.
Additionally we have put in place an undrawn 100 million four year revolving credit facility that provides us with additional financial flexibility.
With that I'll turn it over to Leon.
Thank you Frank.
(Inaudible) production levels at our Kensington gold mine increased 13% over the second quarter.
Recovery rates continue to improve as a result of process improvement at the mill.
We remain focused on further improvements at Kensington to deliver a higher and sustainable level of production through year-end and in to 2013.
We're now attacking Kensington’s cost structure and expect these efforts to be reflected in 2013 performance.
Rochester had a very strong third quarter laying foundation for what we expect to be an even stronger fourth quarter.
Year-to-date 2012 silver production was up 94% and gold production was up 507% a result of a new leach pad that began production in the fourth quarter 2011.
We expect to see continued higher production and lower cash cost at Rochester through the fourth quarter.
As Mitch mentioned in September we encountered unfavorable ground condition at Palmarejo a high grade area of the under ground mine.
This has required additional ground support and maintenance work limiting our short-term ability to advance the high grade secondary [stopping] area also slowing the third quarter production.
In addition we transition to a new phase in the open pit which also had a negative short-term impact on old rates.
Cash operating cost per ounce increased over the second quarter cost as a result of lower production.
Silver production at our San Bartolome mine was level with the second quarter at 1.5 million ounces unit operating costs were up from the second quarter however we expect these costs to decline in the fourth quarter.
Looking at slide 11 silver and gold productions was down from the second quarter due mostly to lower production at Palmarejo which caused cost per ounce to increase.
Randy will now take us through a brief overview of each of our mines.
Thank you Leon.
Total silver production at Palmarejo was 1.8 million ounces down from 2.3 million ounces in the third quarter of 2011.
Gold production was 23 702 ounces compared to 29 815 ounces a year ago.
Cash operating costs increased to $3.75 per ounce.
We expect cash operating costs to remain high in the fourth quarter as we complete underground support and maintenance work and continue moving waste material in the open pit to position the mine for 2013.
As previously reported the Guadalupe deposit located approximately six kilometers from the main Palmarejo mine is expected to begin contributing ore to the mill late in the first quarter of 2013.
Turning to slide 14 silver production at the San Bartolome remained steady at 1.5 million ounces in the third quarter.
Production cost was down from the same quarter a year ago due to lower volumes of ounces sold.
Total cash operating cost per ounce in the third quarter were $12.13 up from the last quarter largely as a result of lower mill production rates due to a power interruption in August from our commercial supplier which caused temporary [unfired] mill down time.
Moving to slide 15 on the heels of a solid second quarter with the resumption of full scale operation in April Kensington produced 24 391 ounces of gold up 13% from second quarter.
Kensington generated $36.5 million in sales and $7.3 million in operating cash flow.
Cash operating cost per ounce at Kensington declined 4% from the second quarter to $1298.
Cash operating cost per ounce are expected to be approximately 1350 for 2012 and declining to less then $950 per ounce in 2013.
Slide 16 illustrate the steady increase in production and the decrease in cash operating cost per ounce we saw at Rochester mine due to the expansion it took place in 2011.
Rochester delivered stellar result in the third quarter producing 819 349 ounces of silver and 10 599 ounces of gold 15% and 5% higher than the second quarter respectively.
Cash operating cost declined from the second quarter $9.58 per ounce.
We expect production at Rochester to continue to rise through the end of the year.
Now Don will take us through the exploration highlights.
Thank you Randy.
The third quarter was the busy one on the exploration front.
We completed over a 147 feet of drilling and sampling is up to 16 rigs and crews operating at the pick of the quarter.
Again the primary focuses of our exploration efforts less on Palmarejo where we saw encouraging results in the Palmarejo mine area and the Guadalupe Norte.
We also completed the first phase of the metallurgical testing on La Patria which is located about seven kilometers south of the Palmarejo mine and are pleased with the initial test results.
More work is planned there.
As announced in August we expanded the silver measured and indicated resources at Joaquin silver project in southern Argentina and filed a new technical report on the results.
We have plans to update the metal resources there again.
On behalf of the company's drilling conducted in the third quarter was accomplished at the Palmarejo mine split between the surface and the underground mine area and other exploration targets including Guadalupe while we expect this will expand the reserves and resources in preparation for mining to begin next year.
Slide 19 shows the main mine area in the five main zones of mineral reserves and resources and two other exploration areas.
In underground drilling we tested a new Inter-Clavos zone which is located between the Rosario and 76 zones and from the surface we are testing our union zone.
These are both new targets which could potentially add to underground and surface mineral resources with further drilling.
Slide 20 shows a map of the Kensington mine area with the mine at nearby notable gold occurrences identified.
We conducted both surface and underground exploration in the third quarter to discover and define new gold mineralization around the mine.
Two drills were engaged with the most significant results coming from the Elmira and Kensington South targets.
In our drilling at Elmira the first (inaudible) located about 2000 east of the main mine we cut six separate gold mineralized structures.
We have also seen some exciting drilling results from Kensington South including the best drillers at this target to date of 10 feet creating over 1.7 ounces per short ton.
Mineralization in this area has geologic similarities with main Kensington mine and we believe that we have intersected only the edge of a potentially large mineralized area at Kensington.
More drilling is planned here which may include driving an underground rift to set up more efficient underground drill platform for next year and beyond.
We shifted our exploration trenching and sampling at San Bartolome from infilling of inferred mineral resources to exploration for new resources this quarter.
Slide 21 illustrates a new target lease which we explored called [Fukovama] nearly half of the trench that is excavated and sampled at [Fukovama] did not reach the bottom of the mineralized gravel of (inaudible) indicating potential for additional mineralization at depth.
More work is planned on this encouraging new target.
Thanks Don.
Although we are not pleased at all with our third quarter performance the issues are short term in nature and are being addressed.
As we move into the last quarter of the year we are focused on improving the operating performance at Palmarejo and driving production rates higher at Rochester and Kensington.
We are focused on establishing solid mine plans for each of our operations that will guide us into the future while we seek to reduce costs at all of our mines.
At the same time we will keep up the pace on our drilling programs in an effort to increase company wide reserves and resources at year end.
Looking ahead the outlook for silver and gold prices remains positive which should translate into strong cash flow for the company.
We will maintain our commitment to running the business in a strategic and disciplined way as we seek to create value and deliver consistent results for our shareholders.
Thanks again for your time today.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) your first question comes from the line of Michael Dudas with Stern Agee.
Agee</strong>  So the topic of the day could you follow on to your prepared remarks Mitch on the 76 how has remediation gone how has October looked so far? How much support the maintenance costs are they going to dissipate by year end is it something to think about moving into the first part of next year and as you see development in the other parts of the mine and what you are looking at has the mine plant changed dramatically in your view even though you are not probably finish with it to what you are thinking about in 2013?  Yeah I will answer those that I can and then Leon feel free to jump in but some of the impact of what we saw in September has spilled or did spill over into October but we look like we're now back on budget in November and December at Palmarejo.
So that’s certainly positive and as we look at the mine plant in the 2013 no we don’t see significant change in terms of the underground and open pit component to the plant.
The remediation work that is underway keep in mind we are mining still in 76 club in this one area where we saw some ground conditions that didn’t appear safe where we pulled back.
We're now focusing on the back filling in those areas so that we can go back in and access those secondary stopes safely later this quarter and into 2013.
Leon do you have anything? I think I hit Mike most of those questions but Leon anything to add to that? No the infected area that we're talking about is about an 8 to 12 stope areas secondary as we already mined the primary stopes in the area.
The primaries are principally all filled but the fault zone that’s given us the problems is really outside of the vein and it's in the hanging wall.
So as we push these secondary towards the hanging wall we are getting a lot of [raveling] out of the hanging wall.
So what our plan is to go back in refill some of the portions of these primaries that didn’t get jam tied and also to look at our grouting method of grouting the fault zone so that we don’t get the raveling.
We could be mining these secondary today and I think we acted prudently in pulling out of this area for safety reasons and we want to make sure that when we go back in there which we are looking at probably 30 days or so before we get the grouting completed that we don’t have this excessive raveling in these stopes which would lead to a loss of ore reserves in the long run.
And then just Michael a follow-up there the 108 Clavo which is fully developed is in area than that we have gone into to help supplement the underground mining that’s still taking place in the 76.
Agee</strong>  That’s encouraging I appreciate those answers Mitch and Leon.
My one follow-up is regarding an early look on capital allocation next year Mitch you talked about exploration development CapEx and strategic investment may be as we look out to ‘13 I know the budgets aren’t done yet but given where you are looking at a range or a direction on capital at the mines itself and there is going to be a significant change of what you have thought may be three months or six months ago?  Yes good question.
We are in the middle of the budget process but just directionally CapEx next year looks to be quite a bit lower than the $120 million or so that will come in at here in 2012 not a real change from where we thought three months or six months ago but 120 down to I don’t think it will be half of that but it will be meaningfully lower than 2012 level (Operator Instructions) We do have a question from the line of Sean Heberling.
Your line is open.
This is Sean Heberling with Marion Street Capital.
Matthew did we lose Sean?  Yes he has been removed from the queue.
Yes.
Would you put him back on please?  Sean your line is open.
Just quick question on the royalty obligation and a related fair value adjustment?  Yeah.
Okay.
Are you folks using quarter end metals prices? Yes that's correct everything for the period is adjusted based on the end of the quarter price.
As opposed to average metals price in the quarter? That's correct.
Okay was the significant difference in metals price this quarter end of quarter versus beginning of quarter the source of substantially all of that fair value adjustment?  No.
The third quarter of this year we saw prices for gold rise compared to the second quarter of this year so we did book for the third quarter just a slightly higher obligation and when you compare a year ago quarters they are a little bit more equally spaced on the pricing and we saw a reduction of that obligation on the long-term portion on the balance sheet.
From the end of the second quarter to the end of the third quarter that gold price was up just a little over 11%.
So pretty meaningful move in gold which led to an increase in that estimated future liability that sits on our balance sheet related to that royalty.
You understand.
Were there changes to any other assumptions other than the precious metals prices?  No there weren't any other variables in that.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Chris.
Please introduce your company name and your line is open.
Matthew let’s go back to Chris later and let’s take the next one up.
(Operator Instructions) Sir we have no one else in the queue that we have the information for.
Okay.
Well then let's go ahead and wrap up.
I appreciate everybody’s time today on Election Day and look forward to our next conference call which will be in conjunction with our year end results in February and hopefully between now and then we will have a chance to talk or see each other.
We will be out on the road quite a bit here between now and then.
So I look forward to staying in touch with you.
Thanks again for your time.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coeur d'Alene Mines Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Ms.
Wendy Yang you may begin your conference.
Thank you Brandy.
Welcome everyone to Coeur d'Alene Mines fourth quarter and year end 2012 financial results conference call.
I’m Wendy Yang Vice President of Investor Relations.
You’ll find Coeur listed as CDE on the New York Stock Exchange and CDM on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
This call is being webcast on our website at www.coeur.com.
Where we have posted slides to you accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available from our website for one week following today’s call.
We will be discussing forward-looking information today and we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please review our cautionary statement shown on slide two and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry described in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
On the call today are Mitch Krebs our President and CEO; Frank Hanagarne; Senior Vice President Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer; Don Birak Senior Vice President of Exploration; and Mike Harrison our Vice President of Corporate Development.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Wendy.
Welcome everyone and thank you all for joining us today.
I’ll start off by saying you’re most likely aware of our news yesterday of our announcement that we’ve entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Orko Silver which we’re excited about and after our prepared remarks we’ll talk a little bit more about that.
But turning to the 2012 highlights on slide four.
We had some notable successes during 2012.
We achieved record gold production of 226 000 ounces.
Both of our U.S.
operations return to solid footing with very bright futures at Rochester in Nevada.
Its production increased significantly and its costs declined materially during its first year of resumed mining activity.
And we’ll see Rochester expands yet again in 2013 which we think will make Rochester the company’s second largest cash flow generator starting this year.
And at our Kensington gold mine in Alaska it successfully transitioned out of the re-tooling phase and into sustainable production levels and lower costs by year end with December production at 11 700 ounces and cost down to $950 an ounce.
Our year end reserves and resources that we reported last Friday showed significant increases.
Our $40 million exploration program in 2012 added about 110 million new silver equivalent ounces of reserves and measured and indicated resources.
These results demonstrate how cost effective it is to grow the business by investing in exploration that’s less than $0.40 an ounce.
We also had some challenges particularly in the second half of the year.
Our Palmarejo silver and gold operations in Mexico which represents over half the company’s sales and cash flow experienced lower grades and lower throughput as a result of poor planning and some poor mining practices in the underground portion of the mine.
We have taken strong action to get these things back on track including replacing most of the management team and really taken a fresh look at the entire operation.
Although the first quarter will be the lowest production quarter of the year at Palmarejo we expect solid silver gold production and cash flow from Palmarejo in 2013.
We also anticipate having further success in our drilling program in the immediate mine area both from the surface and underground.
We remain confident that Palmarejo will remain a cornerstone asset for this company for many years to come.
Production was down at San Bartolomé in 2012 due to lower grade we did make a decision in late 2012 to invest about $20 million of capital this year to increase the processing facility throughput capacity which will lead to a higher production rates beginning in 2014 and beyond and that investment will have less than a two-year payback.
Other highlights from 2012 included the fact that we repurchased approximately 20 million of our own shares during the second half of the year which represents 20% of the repurchase program our Board authorized last June and we will continue to execute on this buyback program.
This repurchase activity demonstrates our commitment to returning capital to shareholders and our belief in the long-term value of our own shares.
In our view share repurchases are the appropriate means to return capital to shareholders while retaining the financial flexibility to invest in high return growth opportunities.
As the company evolves we aspire to becoming a meaningful dividend payer.
With the dividend -- with the definitive agreement to acquire Orko and its La Preciosa Project.
We are progressing toward having a more balanced and diversified portfolio that will sustain a meaningful dividend.
In 2012 we repaid approximately 75 million of outstanding secured debt and also established $100 million revolving credit facility to provide additional balance sheet flexibility.
We also acquired the remaining interest in Joaquin Silver Project located in Santa Cruz Argentina.
It contains a current resource of nearly 70 million silver ounces potential to expand and to become a significant operation for the company down the road.
We also made good progress during 2012 in our efforts to get the right leadership team in place implement the organizational structure and systems needed to better support the business and establish clearly communicated and measurable goals and incentive compensation programs to ensure everyone in the organization is aligned with shareholder interests.
Turning to slide five as we look at 2013 our objectives are clear and straightforward.
We will be focused on achieving excellence in employee health and safety environmental stewardship and community relations.
We’ll seek to improve our ability to achieve operational consistency by upgrading our planning and technical capabilities and delivering our key capital projects on time and on budget.
What this really means is is hitting our production and performance targets.
We expect to produce 18 million to 19.5 million ounces of silver and 250 000 to 265 000 ounces of gold this year at cash operating cost of $8 to $9 an ounce of silver and $900 and $950 an ounce of gold at Kensington.
We will also be focused on maximizing our free cash flow by containing operating costs pursuing revenue enhancement opportunities at all of our mines and better managing our working capital.
We’ll seek to invest in accretive high return growth opportunities including our own shares and brownfields exploration in order to build net asset value and resources on a per share basis.
We will focus our $40 million exploration program on four key objectives this year drilling the stockpiles at Rochester to keep adding low cost reserves there expanding the reserves at Palmarejo adding high grade resources at Kensington and expanding the size of the Joaquin resource.
Turning to the financial update on slide seven.
You can see it highlights our full year 2012 financial and operating results.
On the financial side we generated strong operating cash flow of almost $340 million from metal sales of $896 million.
Our adjusted earnings totaled $121 million or a $1.36 per share.
Capital expenditures in 2012 totaled $115 million about $38 million of that was at Palmarejo $37 million at Kensington and $26 million at San Bartolomé.
Despite the second half challenges I mentioned at Palmarejo our full year 2012 operational performance was solid.
We produce 18 million ounces of silver and the record 226 000 ounces of gold during the year.
Our costs were $7.50 per silver ounce and at Kensington for the full year cash costs were $1 358 but declined dramatically in the fourth quarter and in particular in December.
Our silver reserves increased 2% year-over-year after replacing what was mined during the year and a companywide silver and gold measured and indicated resources increased 36% and 45% respectively.
Frank Hanagarne took over responsibility for operations last month and we have put in place new leadership at all of our mines over the past year and have also added a Vice Presidents of North American Operations and a Vice President of Mexican and South American Operations to provide better support to our sites as we seek to become a more consistent and reliable operating company.
The table on slide eight shows both fourth quarter and full year comparisons to the respective prior year periods.
Fourth quarter metal sales totaled $206 million which was down 17% from the fourth quarter in 2011 and down 12% from year end 2011.
Main reasons silver price was down 12% in 2012.
There was a one shipment from San Bartolomé of about $10 million that didn’t make it into sale at year end and then the lower silver production at Palmarejo and San Bartolomé due to the lower grade material I mentioned earlier.
We also stopped mining at the Martha underground operation in Argentina in September.
This decrease in metal sales was partially offset by increased production at Rochester and our higher average realized gold price in 2012 compared to 2011.
For the full year silver contributed 61% of the company’s total metal sales compared to 65% in 2011.
I do want to call your attention the fourth quarter and full year production cost line on this slide.
Although full year costs were up 9% on a total dollars spent basis.
Our 2012 costs on a per ton mill basis actually declined by about 48% compared to 2011.
We are processing a lot more tons for about the same costs which says we’re operating efficiently.
We believe this will benefit us as we progressed through 2013 as the ore grades are expected to improve at Palmarejo and to a lesser extent at Kensington.
It also demonstrates the high fixed cost nature of the business where nearly 70% of our costs are comprised of consumables power diesel and labor.
Of course we don’t sell tons we sell ounces and that’s why our internal expansion plans our mine plans and our resource models are all focused on optimizing the grade profile at each of our operations.
Slide nine shows average realized prices ounces sold and operating cost on per ounce basis.
Prices remain fairly consistent.
We sold fewer ounces of silver and gold last year due to the lower production at Palmarejo and San Bartolomé and the closure of the Martha mine.
Because of the lower grades costs on a per ounce basis were higher in 2012 compared to 2011.
Turning to slide 10 as I’ve said before one of the company’s most important strategic objective is to invest in accretive high return internal and external growth opportunities including our own shares in order to build net asset value and reserves and resources on a per share basis.
Last month we issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes to facilitate our ability to make these types of investments and as a result looking on slide 11 you can see we now have approximately $500 million of liquidity to support mine development and other value enhancing growth initiatives.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Frank who is actually phoning in from Palmarejo to take us through the 2012 operational highlights.
Thanks Mitch.
I’ll begin with slide number 13 which lists the 2012 operational highlights for all four of our primary mines and we’ll also look at 2013 priorities for each operation.
Fourth quarter production at Kensington was up 18% and costs were down 17% compared to the third quarter.
We expect mill throughput and grade to increase throughout the course of 2013.
At our Rochester mine production from our new leach pad commissioned in late 2011 resulted in a six-fold increase in gold production in 2012.
In addition silver production doubled year-over-year.
The planned expansion at Rochester in 2013 is expected to increase production 35% to 50% over 2012 levels and be maintained at these levels for at least seven years based on existing mine plans and current reserves.
While we have some challenges at Palmarejo in second half of 2012 we are pleased that normal underground mining rates resumed late in the fourth quarter and open pit mining picked up as well partially offsetting lower underground production levels.
Despite ore production in the second half of the year Palmarejo still contributed 69% of Coeur’s total operating cash flow in 2012.
San Bartolomé contributed 21% of our consolidated operating cash flow in 2012 and the mill expansion we have planned in 2013 is expected to drive production to a level over 6 million ounces of silver in 2014.
Turning to slide 14.
Mitch previously mentioned the importance of improving the geopolitical diversity of our operations.
The charts on slide 14 illustrate the improvements we’ve made overtime in this regard the United States and Mexico now account for more than 80% of our estimated 2013 metal sales which would be an increase of about 10% from 2011.
In addition production growth at Rochester and Kensington over the past two years has doubled the proportion of metal sales coming from the United States.
We expect an increase in gold sales in 2013.
We may have lost Frank.
I’ll pick up from where Frank was when we lost him.
Apologies for that.
The U.S.
and Mexico now account for more than 80% of our estimated 2013 metal sales which would be an increase of about 10% from 2011.
In addition production growth at Rochester and Kensington over the past two years has doubled the proportion of metal sales coming from the U.S.
We expect an increase in gold sales in 2013 and an increase in the proportion of our sales coming from gold.
The bar charts on the bottom of slide 15 show the steady increase in silver and gold production from our operations over the past five years.
2012 production totaled 18 million silver ounces and 226 000 gold ounces.
Looking at Coeur’s metal production by mine Palmarejo continues to contribute the lion share of silver and gold but increased production from Rochester and Kensington are notable.
I’ll get into the operational details of each of our four primary mines in the next series of slides.
Turning now to slide 16 shows the fourth quarter and full year 2012 highlights for Palmarejo.
The mine generated metal sales of $79 million from 1.6 million ounces of silver and 20 000 ounces of gold in the fourth quarter.
Cash operating cost of $7.55 per silver ounce.
Operating cash flow was $33 million.
The open pit operation mined a record 465 000 tons at lower average silver and gold grades in the fourth quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
This resulted in a 10% increase in mine -- tons mined over the third quarter of 2012 and a 45% increase over the fourth quarter of 2011.
Silver grades in the new phase of the pit are expected to increase gradually in 2013.
Full-year 2012 production was 8.2 million silver ounces and 106 000 gold ounces and cash operating cost of a $1.33 per silver ounce.
For the full year metal sales totaled $442 million and operating cash flow was $233 million.
Turning to slide 17 SanBartolomé generated $37 million in sales in the fourth quarter from production of 1.3 million ounces of silver.
Cash operating cost was $13.97 in the fourth quarter compared to $9.18 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Operating cash flow totaled $17 million.
For the full-year production was 5.9 million silver ounces and cash operating cost were $11.76 per ounce and total metal sales for 2012 were $178 million with operating cash flow totaling approximately $72 million of SanBartolomé.
As we mentioned a mill expansion is planned to increase capacity by about 10% to 15% to roughly 150 tons per day by the beginning of 2014.
Capital costs for that expansion will be between $17 million and $20 million and we expect this expansion to increase the mine’s annual production to at least 6 million ounces of silver over the next seven years at reduced cash operating cost per ounce.
Turning to slide 18 fourth quarter production at Rochester was the best of the year at 828 000 ounces of silver and 12 000 ounces of gold cash operating costs of $2.17 per silver ounce.
Metal sales totaled $43 million and operating cash flow was $22 million in the fourth quarter.
For the full year Rochester produced 2.8 million ounces of silver and 38 000 ounces of gold which were both significantly higher than 2011.
Cash operating costs were $9.62 per ounce in 2012 compared to $23 an ounce in 2011.
And for the full-year metal sales were $132 million compared to $57 million last year and 2012 operating cash flow was about $54 million at Rochester.
We are very enthusiastic about the 2013 expansion plans for Rochester.
We expect the major crusher and heap leach capacity expansion to boost production to 4.5 million to 4.9 million ounces of silver and about 45 000 ounces of gold in 2013 and those levels are expected to be maintained for roughly seven more years.
Total CapEx is expected to be $30 million to $35 million in 2013 at Rochester which includes about $25 million of growth capital and the remainder for sustaining ongoing CapEx.
The company is investing $4 million in 2013 to expand the capacity of the primary crusher from 9 million tons to the currently permitted annual rate of 14 million tons.
In addition we expect to expand the mine’s heap leach capacity on existing pads to approximately 67 million tons at an estimated capital cost of about $15 million to accommodate these higher production rates of ore coming from historic stockpiles.
Further expansion at Rochester beyond the 2013 production level is also in the planning stages.
Engineering and permitting are underway for 40 million tons of additional pad capacity with initial expected production in 2016 to further extend the mine life and further increase production rates again coming from stockpile core.
This capital project is estimated to cost $10 million in 2014 or 2015.
Turning to Kensington on slide 19 fourth quarter production was 28 700 ounces the highest of year.
As production ramped up cash costs per ounce declined 40% to $1 065 per ounce in the fourth quarter and down to $950 I mentioned in the month of December.
Total metal sales in the fourth quarter at Kensington were $43 million and operating cash flow in the fourth quarter was $15 million so we really turned the corner at Kensington.
Gold production at Kensington for the full year was 82 125 ounces.
Metal sales totaled $111 million and operating cash flow was $15 million for the full year.
In 2013 these levels should be enhanced from expected higher production and lower unit costs.
On slide 20 we lay out our estimated CapEx for 2013.
As the Guadalupe project at Palmarejo is being optimized we expect 2013 CapEx there to be $10 million to $12 million.
The growth CapEx at Rochester is expected to boost the crusher and heap leach capacity increasing production at this mine as I mentioned to 4.5 million to 4.9 million ounces of silver and about 45 000 ounces of gold.
We will be expanding the mill capacity at SanBartolomé as previously mentioned and we will have capitalized exploration expenses in 2013 of between $12 million and $13 million.
With that I will turn the call over to Don to take us through the 2012 exploration highlights and 2013 overview.
Don? Thank you.
Coeur’s $40 million exploration program in 2012 was the largest in a long history as a leading primary silver producer.
This investment yielded increased silver and mineral resources and reserves relative to year-end 2011.
Notably we added a new mineral -- we added new mineral resources and reserves at Rochester posted gains in mineral resources at the Palmarejo La Patria and Guadalupe deposits in the Palmarejo district.
We brought Raven into Kensington’s mineral reserves and significantly upgraded mineral resources at Joaquin with larger contained ounces and grade at both measured and indicated compared to 2011.
That’s based upon a pro forma basis.
We also completed the first estimate of mineral resources on the Lejano project in Argentina.
Turning to slide 23 a primary focus of our exploration program last year was the expansion and upgrade of mineral reserves and additional mineral resources relative to 2011.
Not including 2012 production combined silver reserves and measured and indicated resources silver ounces increased by more than 19% while gold ounces increased 12%.
This next slide 24 details the distribution of 2012 expense plus capitalized exploration the type of work done and where the work took place.
The gains that we realized in 2012 was a result of the program strongly focused on Brownfields exploration at our operating properties as well as the Joaquin advanced stage exploration project.
We expect to dedicate over 90% of our $40 million exploration budget for this year to similar operating properties.
Again in 2012 the lion share of our record exploration program was devoted to the Palmarejo district.
Mineral resources in all categories increased at Palmarejo providing real opportunities to focus our new drilling on the best areas to build new reserves.
Gains were realized at the Palmarejo deposits followed by gains at La Patria and Guadalupe.
Around the Palmarejo mine last year was a re-examination of all data to help generate new drilling targets.
This work identified 10 new targets to be tested in 2013 and that program has started.
In addition to this work we conducted two phases of metallurgy tests at La Patria which yielded good silver and gold recoveries from standard cyanidation tests.
Wrapping up Palmarejo we reviewed the mine plans at Guadalupe and are now focused on its potential for both surface and underground mining.
New surface mining is slated for Las Animas at Southeast end of a 2.5 kilometer long Guadalupe deposit.
To assist with detailed mine planning we commenced a program this year to extend the limits of the current mineral resources with drilling and trenches as close to the surface as possible.
We know the mineralized quartz restructure is located -- is locally exposed on surface so we expect this work to yield useful data to our mine planners.
Slide 27 a major amount of our new exploration drilling was completed at the Rochester mine in Nevada.
The largest component of this work was focused on drilling and sampling of historic surface stockpiles to build the first compliant model of their mineral resources and reserves.
Last year we worked on two of six stockpiles and we will continue with the same approach this year on the others.
On slide 28 you can see the location of the six large stockpiles flanking the Rochester and Nevada Packard mines.
Drilling and modelling in 2012 focused on the West and Limerick stockpiles using a combination of drilling bulk sampling methods designed and evaluated by our consulting engineers and our staff at Rochester.
We were successful in building mineral resources and estimating new mineral reserves at the West and Limerick stockpiles.
I’d like to close with some positive developments on our Joaquin advanced stage expiration property in Argentina.
Pleased to report completion of an updated mineral resource model for Joaquin which now stands at over 95% in the measured and indicated categories.
In addition the average silver grades of the measured and indicated resources increased from just over 85 grams per ton at year-end 2011 to over 128 grams per ton at the end of 2012.
We look forward to advancing studies on Joaquin to bring this large asset and to future production profile.
With that I’ll turn it back to Mitch.
Thanks Don.
Slide 30 summarizes the company’s production and cost guidance for 2013 which we previously mentioned on the call.
On slide 32 we’ve summarized the 2013 main priorities for the company -- improving operational consistency and reliability hitting our production and performance targets maximizing our free cash flow investing in accretive high-return growth opportunities and strengthening our organizational structure and management.
These priorities are straightforward and they are achievable and they factor into every decision we make and we think by accomplishing these priorities shareholders will be rewarded.
Now before taking questions I do want to take a few minutes to discuss yesterday’s announcement regarding our acquisition of Orko Silver.
Orko’s key asset the La Preciosa project in Mexico is one of the largest undeveloped silver deposits in the world with the potential to grow even larger through further drilling.
We feel confident that this transaction offers compelling benefits to both Coeur and Orko shareholders.
For Coeur shareholders this transaction provides three key benefits.
La Preciosa will diversify Coeur’s portfolio across a larger platform of assets.
It reduces our overall political risk profile and it provides accretive significant growth in production and cash flow over a very long mine life.
We intend to finance the development of La Preciosa with funds on our balance sheet and from a portion of the free cash flow that we expect to continue generating from our existing operations.
As far as next steps go there is no further corporate or shareholder approvals required by Coeur and we have no financing conditions.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and requires an Orko shareholder vote which we expect to be held in April.
The vote will be carried out by way of a court-approved plan of arrangement that requires the approval of at least 66 and 2/3% of the votes cast by Orko shareholders.
Each of Orko’s directors and officers who hold in the aggregate approximately 7.75% of the outstanding Orko shares have agreed to vote in favor of the transaction.
Turning to slide 34 we will accelerate the work being done on a PEA for La Preciosa which we expect to have completed in a technical report filed midyear.
I don’t want to get us out too far ahead of that work and provide the investment community with any unrealistic assumptions or set any unrealistic expectations for the project.
That said while that work is going on we do want to provide you with enough baseline information to allow you to get your arms around how you might think about the value and the impact of La Preciosa.
So slide 34 summarizes several key inputs that are taken from an updated mineral resource estimate statement from November 5 2012 that was prepared by Mining Plus under the supervision of AMEC and this is available off SEDAR.
In this report there are several valid open pit assumptions -- mining costs processing costs an open pit cutoff grade and the total open pit silver resource estimate of just 100 million ounces of indicated silver ounces and about a 132 million ounces in the inferred category.
It also assumes average mill recoveries of 88% for silver and 78% for gold.
Slide 35 highlights some other assumptions that you also might find useful.
These are company assumptions based on our work to date and on benchmarking studies that have been done on similar projects and how we’re looking at this is as a 10 000 ton per day of leach processing facility which is similar to the plans at SanBartolomé and at least a portion of the processing facility at Palmarejo and also similar to what we would envision building at Joaquin.
We estimate capital expenditures upfront in the $300 million to $500 million range and then life of mine sustaining capital totaling $60 million to $90 million over an estimated 19 year mine life and also estimate a life of mine strip ratio of about 14:1.
And that results in average annual estimated silver production in the 7 million to 9 million ounce range.
Turning to slide 36 again we want to give you some sense to how we are thinking about the progression here of La Preciosa.
As I said we are working on getting the PEA accelerated and a technical report completed in the middle of this year.
We expect to complete a feasibility study by the end of next year with construction in 2015 in 2016 and then expected initial production in the back half of 2016.
So hopefully these last two or three slides give you enough guidance and input to put some numbers together as far as the profile for La Preciosa.
This is a project that we feel will create a lot of value for our shareholders and we look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress going forward.
So with that thank you again for taking the time to join us on the call today and operator we’d be happy to take questions now.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Hi Michael.
Agee</strong> Mitch and Don over there and Wendy.
Hope Frank is okay.
He is back on I heard.
Agee</strong> Great.
Terrific.
Glad to hear that Frank.
So following up on….
I got back in.
Agee</strong> Great.
Terrific.
Thank you.
La Preciosa so looking at your key inputs relative to what’s been published can you square a little bit of the circle on range of capital? The strip ratio looks pretty healthy and is there -- over a 20 year mine life 7 million to 9 million ounces can there be some acceleration to that as you think about developing early stage of the mine? Yeah.
We -- clearly a lot of work to do still a lot of optimization… Agee</strong> I understand.
….work but clearly we will move forward to extend the mine plan allows for it higher grade material and front load the production profile to be little higher in the earlier years and then pay a lot in the latter years.
We think that based on what we know that we can do that and I think also just managing that strip ratio is something we can do with the way some of the mineralization there trends up near surface so that as we do approach a large open-pit concept we can be in or along the way and help manage the profile in the early years.
Agee</strong> And the per-ton costs that were in the November study that’s reasonable to think about as we’re trying to model this out given what you’re saying? Yeah.
We think that’s a good starting point and will get you in the range of where you should be.
And as we get our work more advanced of course we will come back with more fine tuning numbers but for now those are some good benchmarks.
Agee</strong> Okay.
Maybe for Frank on Palmarejo could you gives us sense early on so far in 2013 how the underground mining rates are looking relative to again the improvement that you’ve noticed or talked about from year end.
And how sustainable we might see that does move through 2013? Sure.
Mike as we mentioned before we did resume normal mining rates in the mines during the fourth quarter.
And that just continues as we go forward.
The situation came down to identifying the issue and putting a remediation plan in place in the clavo 76 which we’ve done and everything’s back to normal as far as mining rates are concerned.
And I believe it is sustainable going forward.
Agee</strong> Terrific.
I’ll stop there.
I’ll just get back in queue.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Levy with Jefferies &amp; Company.
I know you guys said on your recent road show that you are sort of committed to keeping leverage around one times or even below.
Is there something that sort of still holds true and then the second question also more of a bond holder question.
Have you guys sort of seen any adverse changes in any of the tax or royalty treatments in any geographies or looked into the idea of political risk insurance in any particular geography? Yeah.
Hi Brett.
It’s Mitch here.
The leverage of one time or less trailing EBITDA is something that we’ll adhere to.
Given the commodity nature of our business we want to maintain a conservative balance sheet but we also feel that it’s prudent to use a bit of leverage to help us grow in a shareholder friendly way.
So we’ll anticipate any changes to that policy.
As far as taxes royalties go we do have political risk insurance in Bolivia which we’ve carried since we put that mine in the production in 2008.
That’s a total $155 million of political risk there.
As far as taxes and royalties the only thing there that I see having a potential of any change is as the Bolivian government continues with its deliberations on a new mining law or updating its mining law till that’s finalized and signed into law there is a potential for change in current taxes and royalties there.
But our expectation is that there won’t be any meaningful change.
But you never know until it’s done.
Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain.
Yeah.
Mitch Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
My question was just if we could circle back on the CapEx number.
I can appreciate that it’s a very wide range.
But just taking a midpoint right now of around $400 million for La Preciosa could you sort of breakdown the main buckets as to where you see that the pit development costs versus the vat leaching versus any other infrastructure.
And could you comment in this current market that we’re seeing a lot of project cancellations.
Are you sensing any opportunity to buy some of this potential secondhand equipment cheaper than what we’ve seen in the last few years? Yeah.
Hi Jorge.
Thanks for the questions.
And Mike Harrison who is on the call feel free to jump in.
As far as that CapEx range I prefer to hunt on that to be honest with you until we have a little more detail to give you I think about $100 million of that is fleet mobile equipment with the -- obviously the lion share then going into the processing facility itself.
And your point about some cancel projects it is an opportunity both from a materials and infrastructure standpoint as well as from a people standpoint there’s some talent available out there that can help us build this operation in a way that allows it to be done on time and on budget and allow us to achieve the kind of returns that we see available with La Preciosa.
And could you comment a little bit about the potential timing of the Pitarrilla project that’s also in the same neighborhood.
Do you believe that would put any pressure on labor or do you view that the projects would be staggered in such a way that you’re not competing head-to-head? Yeah.
I think that Pitarrilla is a little behind Preciosa.
And between Torreon and Durango and five or six other smaller communities right there in that region within two hours of both of those projects there is I think more than sufficient capacity to handle -- to handle both.
I’d like to think but I can’t comment specifically on Pitarrilla’s timetable.
But I’d like to think that we’d be moving a little faster than that project.
And lastly could you comment about manpower as to how you would see managing the development of this project.
Would this be something flying people over the mountains from Palmarejo or would you see flying people down from headquarters.
How do you see actually staffing this project? Yeah.
Really a bit of a two-headed monster there.
We’ll establish our presence in Durango which is a 75-mile drive from Durango out to the project site.
So it’s very logical for that to be our main base from which we’ll begin with drilling the environmental baseline work everything that needs to go into the feasibility study.
And then given the size of presence in Mexico between Palmarejo and La Preciosa we’re working to staff up a piece of the organizational structure that will fit over top both operations.
And that will probably fit in Mexico City.
President of Coeur Mexicana and some supporting roles to oversee our entire presence in Mexico given the significance to our business.
Right.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Thanks Jorge.
Your next question comes from the line of Adams Brook with Sidoti &amp; Company LLC.
LLC</strong> Just a few quick questions here.
Maybe on Joaquin had a nice big jump in resources maybe an update on your thoughts of timing of initial production there and metrics.
I think about a year back you said about five years out maybe a $5 million run rate.
Any changes now that you’ve been there for a little bit longer? No.
I think Adam that still holds true.
I think that given the -- you compare Mexico with Argentina and it’s clear where our first priority will be as far as deploying significant capital.
That said I think Joaquin can fit nicely on the back end of Preciosa to add a next leg of growth in that profile that you mentioned is still valid as far as how we think about the Joaquin.
But it was really nice to see that that big bump up in grade there at Joaquin that certainly bodes well for the economics of the project.
I know Don got a big program there to hopefully expand the size of the resource and we’ll get a feasibility study team staffed up there and get the work going and still monitor just what’s going on in Argentina with that kind of a timetable still in our mine.
LLC</strong> And then this one quickly for Don.
Anything that has you particularly excited as we enter ‘13 from an exploration standpoint? You can really teed him up Adam.
I got my seat belt on so.
What I’m really excited about we have a really good slate of programs inherent in.
It’s hard to prioritize in my mind.
We do that on a budget basis.
Preciosa has got to be something that’s really going to come into our program in a big big way.
That was very exciting.
What we currently have you got to be happy about seeing more opportunities at Rochester.
I think the Kensington program the way we’ve kind of retooled both Kensington and Palmarejo with new targets coming out of our work there.
We get some great opportunities for us to drill and put new ounces on the books this year.
$0.40 an ounce or less I wish we could spend more on exploration but you can only -- Don smiling.
You can only spend so much efficiently and that’s kind of where we feel we’re butting up against that capacity.
But we keep having years like totally like we did in 2012 and that just really bodes well for the overall profile of the company.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Wright with Global Hunters.
Everybody thanks for taking my questions.
Hi.
Had a couple of questions on Rochester specifically.
Looking at the expansion capital for this year let’s say $25 million you got allocated $4 million for the crushing capacity another $15 million for expansion of the heap leach pads.
That additional $6 million to $7 million is that for any one specific item or any large item or is that just across the whole project? Yeah.
The rest of that is made up of a lot of little things.
I don’t know Frank if you have anything to add to that.
I’m thinking about like the deaeration tower some of the other small projects that will support this expansion.
But there’s not one thing that makes up that that additional 6 million or so.
Frank do you have anything to add? Yeah.
I think you’ve hit -- caught the big hitters.
That remaining amount I know there’s a water well.
There is a deaeration tower to supplement our operations at the Merrill Crowe process.
Those are probably the biggest chunk out that seven and then the remainder is just miscellaneous equipment other things needed to sustain operations.
Okay.
And final permitting on the expansion of the heap leach when do you anticipate having those permits secured? To take the capacity up to the 67 million tons there is one last state permit that we’re waiting on and expected let see it’s February 21st.
Maybe this month probably March so that that will clear up that initial expansion just from a permitting standpoint.
And then the permitting and engineering to add the additional 40 million tons that will take probably a good year of work to get us in a position to have that in place.
Okay.
And I have a question for Don.
If I’m looking at exploration in Mexico the budget is call it $20 million this year.
I’m assuming that does not include any allocation for La Preciosa at this stage? That’s correct.
So what would be the range or an exploration vision for La Preciosa for 2013 or maybe into 2014? We’re going to cost that out but basically when we looked at this before we could see that we had two really big things that had to be done there.
One was to drill to upgrade the inferred resources and add value to the future feasibility.
That’s the biggest component.
It think our estimate there was probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 20.
Around the north end of this deposit too depending upon where we’ve been refining facilities we need to do some exploration and condemnation.
So we’re going to look at the whole budget lay it out here very soon including getting a team in place really quickly.
For modeling purposes we should probably plug in a $20 million exploration number for La Preciosa for the next say 12 to 18 months.
Do you think that’s fair? Yeah.
Really heavy in the next 12 to 18 months that’s exactly right.
According to Mitch’s timetable he laid out we’ve got to move on that drilling quickly.
Yeah.
Kind of looking at the timetable doesn’t look like it would all be spent in 2013.
It’s somewhat shift into 2014 before the feasibility study would be complete correct? Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
It’s time for everything else.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thanks a lot.
And I’ll jump back in the queue.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Reagor with Global Hunter Securities.
Just following on one of Jeff’s questions on Rochester.
In your press release I didn’t see a breakdown of recovery rates for Q4.
Can you just clarify what they were for gold and silver? Let me get to him here.
I can take that one Mitch.
Yeah.
Okay.
The recovery rates ultimate recoveries are achieved over a very long timeline running very close to 60% for silver.
And the incremental in the period recoveries are variable given the rate of ore being stacked out onto the pads and how long they sit under leach.
So we have -- depending on the depth of ore to the pads which is increasing as we stag momentarily how to have a certain amount of time to break through.
But on a timeline it all creeps up and builds to a 60% project recovery rate.
So we would have achieved that so more in the fourth quarter others were too advancing towards that but not quite there.
And with the expansion rigs we should expect the 60% to continue forward? Yeah.
I would say so.
Those are silver and then on the gold that’s what Frank 90? 92? Yeah.
It’s a quite a bit higher on smaller volume of gold produced but it’s a much higher recovery rate.
And the timeline characteristics that comes out a little bit quicker quite a bit quicker actually than the silver.
But again that’s the same principles apply.
It kind of determines on the rate of volume of material going out to the pads and then following up with the solutions.
But project numbers will be in the 90% range on gold recoveries.
Okay.
That’s fine.
And then on Kensington can you guys give an explanation of how you guys are going to get from the $1050 range that you guys were in Q4 for production costs down to the $900 to $950 range next year? Frank do you want to take that? Sure.
All the things that we were seeking to achieve in 2012 are becoming quite evident at the end of -- at the end of the year with our cost.
So reduction that we’re having much more efficient mining to the work done that was done in the first half of the year.
And just as a result of having more orderly and efficient mining taking place for seeing some cost reductions there.
We’re also seeing departure of contractors and less cost in reliance on third-party support for various things in the last quarter of the year and that will hold going forward.
Those are the principle drivers of the performance combined with rising production profile and expect that to continue as well.
Okay.
So its existing cost reductions to date combined with higher throughputs going forward will result in the lower costs? That’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Wendy Yang.
Thank you Brandy.
And thank you very much for joining on our call today.
Please hope that you will come by and see us at BMO and UBS conferences.
We will be at BMO conference next week in Florida followed by I’ll be up at UBS’ one-on-one conference on 27th February and then we have of course PDAC conference.
We have a booth at 2421B B as in Barry for the Tuesday and Wednesday at PDAC in Toronto.
So with that thank you very much for joining us today.
We hope to see you in the coming week.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Sandra and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Ms.
Wendy Yang Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma’am you begin.
Thank you Sandra.
Welcome to our first quarter conference call.
I’m Wendy Yang Vice President of Investor Relations.
This call is also being webcast on our website at www.coeur.com.
Where we have posted slides to you accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available on our website through May 23rd.
We will be discussing some forward-looking information today and we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please review our cautionary statement shown on slide two and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry described in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
On the call today we have Mitch Krebs President and CEO; Frank Hanagarne; Senior Vice President Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer; Don Birak Senior Vice President of Exploration; and Joe Philip our Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer.
We will get started.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Wendy.
Good morning everyone good afternoon to those on the east coast.
During the first four months of the year we have continued to pursue several key strategic objectives that are shown on slide four.
None of these objectives will be achieved overnight but we are making steady progress and none of these objectives will be achieved without the right people and the right level of technical expertise in place.
We are committed to succeeding in this new world of capital discipline execution cost reduction returns and better management of the risks inherent in our industry.
Success requires building a team of technical and financial talent that can become a true competitive advantage for our company and that’s exactly what we have been doing and I am really excited about the people that have recently joined Coeur.
We have added a new season Chief Financial Officer in Peter Mitchell who will help us maintain a flexible balance sheet mitigate risks and appropriately deploy free cash flow to achieve optimal returns and lead our efforts to better manage cost and information.
We have also added a new Chief Development Officer in Joel Philips to lead the company’s capital project initiatives.
Joe and his group are keenly focused on the importance of delivering projects on-time and on-budget whether their projects in support of existing operations or more significant projects such as La Preciosa or Rochester’s expansion.
In order to better identify and manage risks we have hired a new head of health and safety in Bill Holder who is providing leadership support and the tools necessary to achieve our goal of making sure everyone goes home safely to their families every night.
We have new general managers in place at Palmarejo San Bartolomé and Rochester who are driven to make their operations as safe consistent and efficient as possible.
In addition we have added a stable of very talented technical financial IT and operations professionals who are driving the company forward in ways that will lead to more consistency better planning and better decision making.
What we have undertaken here is essentially a complete overhaul of this company.
We are serious about making Coeur a true leader in the precious metals industry.
Being a leader doesn’t necessarily mean the biggest.
That’s the lesson this industry has learned the hard way over the past decade.
We are striving to become the example of how a mining company should run and demonstrate a willingness to embrace new ideas and approaches in an effort to make our shareholders money.
This will all be accomplished over time with a new name and a new headquarters location which we believe sets the tone for the kind of change we are talking about.
Despite recent volatility in silver and gold prices we have been aggressively pursuing cost reductions and efficiency gains at our operations since late last year and we are beginning to see results.
We have begun a top to bottom review of all ongoing and planned capital expenditures to ensure we are deploying capital in the projects that are either necessary for the long terms sustainability of the operation or that will generate an appropriate return on that capital.
It is important that we stress test all projects and operations per prices to determine the optimal path forward without being too reactionary to the volatility in silver and gold prices we experienced during April.
We need to maintain our focus on long term prices given we are making decisions that are over five to twenty year time period.
Although we are primarily focused on our existing operations we will continue to be opportunistic towards external growth.
We currently see a lot of dislocation in the market especially within the late stage exploration company sector that we will selectively pursue.
We remain committed to repurchasing our shares which we believe represent tremendous value at current levels.
So far we have completed $32.5 million of the $100 million program our board authorized in June of last year.
Turning to slide 5.
Couple of weeks ago I was in New York for the release of the 2013 World Silver Survey.
Although industrial demand declined last year investment demand remain strong and is expected to continue to be the key to sustained silver prices.
Other key highlights from the silver survey are summarized on slide 5.
And just a quick comment on gold which makes up 47% of our sales I haven’t seen the sentiment for gold this negative in a long time.
Yet here we are at $1470 an ounce after touching $1380 an ounce just three weeks ago.
We think the long term case for gold remains intact and we like our metals mix of silver and gold.
Turning to slide 6.
I would say we had a mixed first quarter that ended much stronger than it started.
As we announced in our April 15<sup>th</sup> news release first quarter production was steady and we expected to accelerate this flat compared to the fourth quarter gold production was down slightly compared to the fourth quarter but up 30% compared to the year ago first quarter.
D'Alene gold mine in Mexico rebounded compared to the prior quarter in terms of higher production levels and significantly lower costs.
Having said that Palmarejo started slowly in January and February but had a strong March which resulted in a decent quarter.
We expect to see more months like we experienced in March and April and what we are seeing so far in May and fewer like January and February throughout the rest of the year and we are confident in our full year guidance at Palmarejo.
Our Rochester silver and gold operation in Nevada which is undergoing a further expansion this year started the year slowly due to cold snowy weather and fewer tons being crushed in plant.
The mine is catching up but the first two months of the year has put Rochester behind budget.
Performance at our San Bartolomé silver mine was solid in the first quarter and the result at our Kensington gold mine were stable and we expect production there to increase during the remainder of the year.
so operationally for us the two big keys are to sustain the performance at Palmarejo that we have seen in March April and so far in May and accelerate the crushing rates at Rochester to make up for the slow January and February.
Overall sales and operating cash flow was down but there was about $39 million of metal sales that didn’t make into the first quarter that were realized in the current quarter.
If you add that back into the first quarter results we were ahead of the fourth quarter and in line with the year ago first quarter.
Overall costs were down in particular Palmarejo’s cost per ounce dropped from $7.55 per ounce in the fourth quarter to $2.20 per ounce in the first quarter.
San Bartolomé’s cost per ounce also declined by 5% versus the prior quarter.
We recently closed the Orko Silver acquisition which adds the world class La Preciosa silver project in Mexico to our list of life of long life assets and Joe will have more to say about La Preciosa in a few minutes.
We were opportunistic in the capital markets during the first quarter which has resulted in a very flexible balance sheet.
Our strategic objectives for 2013 remain clear and unchanged and are shown on slide seven.
Turning now to the financial update slide nine highlights our first quarter financial results.
We produced 3.8 million ounces of silver and almost 57 000 ounces of gold in the quarter but only sold 3.1 million ounces of silver and 52 000 ounces of gold due to timing which gave rise to a $39 million lag in metal sales that I mentioned earlier.
We generated about $59 million in operating cash flow from about $172 million in metal sales.
Production cost at our mines are on plan and we are now seeing some reductions versus budget thanks to a lot of hard work.
Consolidated production cost were about $89 million in the first quarter which was 4% lower than last year’s first quarter and 17% lower than the fourth quarter of last year.
On a per ton mill basis production cost were 16% lower compared with the first quarter of 2012.
Capital expenditures were about $13 million in the first quarter which was a 59% decrease from the first quarter of 2012.
And cash cash equivalents and short term investments ended the quarter at about 333 million.
We use 99 million of this balance to fund the cash portion of the Orko Silver acquisition last month and the company's $100 million revolving credit facility remains undrawn.
The table on slide 10 shows average realized prices ounces produced and sold and cash operating costs on a per ounce basis.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank who will take us through first quarter operational performance.
Thanks Mitch.
We will turn to slide 12; this slide lists the first quarter 2013 operational highlights and priorities for all of our four operating mines.
First quarter of 2013 production at our Kensington gold mine in Alaska was down 12% in fourth quarter 2012 all cost remained constant.
Kensington contributed 20% of our operating cash flow.
We expect production for this mine to increase and cash operating cost to decline in the second half of the year as we expected ore grades.
Our Rochester silver gold mine in Nevada had a good quarter the silver and gold production up 47% and 65% respectively for the first quarter of last year.
Rochester started the year slowly due to processing challenges from severe winter weather in January and February.
The mine contributed 23% of total operating cash flow for the quarter.
The capital expansion underway at Rochester increased 2013 production 35% to 50% year-over-year.
Underground and open pit mining rates at our Palmarejo mine in Mexico improved and stabilized in the first quarter compared with the last few months of 2012.
Palmarejo contributed 37% of Coeur’s total operating cash flow.
Development of Guadalupe continues and we're optimizing the mine plan to incorporate a new open pit production plan to augment underground production.
San Bartolomé demonstrated strong mill throughput and silver recovery rates contributing 18% of Coeur's consolidated operating cash flow for the quarter.
The planned mill expansion at San Bartolomé is expected to drive annual production levels up over 6 million ounces of silver in 2014 and for the next several years.
Turning to slide 13 the bar charts at the bottom of slide 13 shows a steady increase in silver and gold production in our operations over the past 5 years.
2012 production totaled 18 million silver ounces and a record 226 486 gold ounces.
We expect to produce 18 to 19.5 million ounce of silver and a record 250 to 265 000 ounces of gold in 2013.
Looking at Coeur's metal production by mine Palmarejo continues to contribute the majority of silver and gold production.
But the increased production at Rochester and Kensington has been notable.
Our longest lived operation Rochester is placed to be our second largest cash flow contributor in 2013 and could become the company's largest cash flow contributor in five years.
Turning now to the operating performance details of each of our mines slide 14 shows the first quarter 2013 highlights of Palmarejo; although production levels of Palmarejo started off slowly this year as a result of mining lower than plant or grades.
March and April were strong months and we remain confident in our 2013 guidance for this important asset.
Palmarejo generated metal sales of 57 million from 1.1 million ounces of silver and 14 500 ounces of gold in the first quarter.
As mentioned earlier we produced more ounces and we sold due to quarter end time; Palmarejo produced 1.65 million ounces of silver and 22 965 ounces of gold at cash operating cost of $2.20 per silver ounce.
Operating cash flow was 31.5 million.
Capital expenditures were 5 million for the quarter.
Palmarejo's underground and open pit mining rates improved and stabilize during the first quarter compared to the last four months of 2012.
Silver or gold or grades from both the open pit and underground operations are generally expected to improve through the rest of the year as they did in March and April.
Progress at Guadalupe is accelerating through improved development results and we anticipate intercepting the authorized in the second quarter.
We are proud to report that Palmarejo's mine rescue team are in first place and first aid response team are in second place in the respective competitions that the northern Mexico mine rescue and first aid competition held in mid-March 2013.
In addition for the fifth consecutive year Ghana was recognized by the Mexican center for Philanthropy with solely responsible business distinction award for demonstrated leadership excellence in corporate social responsibility environmental stewardship and sustainability of Mexico.
We are very very proud of our Palmarejo team for these achievements.
Turning to slide 15 San Bartolomé generated 33 million in sales in the first quarter from 1.1 million ounces of silver sold.
This was less than metal production of 1.4 million ounces of silver cash operating costs per silver ounce for $13.27 in the first quarter 2013 compared to $13.97 in the fourth quarter 2012.
Operating cash flow totaled 12 million; the 17-20 million mill expansion project underway at San Bartolomé is expected to increase processing capacity at the mine by approximately 10-15% in 2013.
We expect the expansion to generate a less than two year pay back and to increase the mine's annual production to over 6 million ounces of silver for the next several years; a reduced cash operating cost per ounce.
This expansion project is on schedule and expected to be completed late this year.
Capital expenditures in San Bartolomé were 500 000.
In celebration of the City of (inaudible) San Bartolomé donated silver bars which were made into commemorative medallions.
Great for the possible relationships we have in Bolivia and welcome the opportunity to give back to the community where we operate.
Turning to slide 16 first quarter production at Rochester was 648 000 ounces of silver and 8742 ounces of gold a cash operating cost of $13.54 per silver ounce lower than the first quarter of 2012 but higher than the first quarter of 2012.
Metal sales totaled $39.5 million and operating cash flow was $17 million.
We remained very enthusiastic about 2013 expansion underway at Rochester.
We will invest about $4 million this year expand crushing capacity from 9 million tons to 14 million tons.
Monthly crusher throughput is expected to be between 1.2 million and 1.4 million tons in the second half of 2013 leading to expect higher second half production of silver and gold.
In addition to expanding the mine heap leach capacity to approximately 67 million tons than an estimated capital cost of about 15 million this plan expansion will accommodate sustain higher production rates driven by mining or contained in historic stock files.
These stock files were created during the mine 26 years' operating history and gold and silver prices were significantly lower than the current market.
Capital expenditures of Rochester were $3 million in the first quarter.
Rochester is located in Nevada the silver state.
This month for donated 1000 ounce silver bar to Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval to produce commemorative coins marking the State’s 150th anniversary (inaudible) part of the community and the state both (inaudible) history.
Moving to slide 17 Kensington produced 25 206 ounces of gold in the first quarter a cash offering cost of $1055 per annum which is much improved over the first quarter of 2012.
Costs were higher at that time due to a temporary production scale back to complete several critical underground and surface infrastructure projects.
Now the sales totaled 39 million and offering cash flow was 15 million first quarter of 2013.
Mechanical availability of generators during the first quarter reduced underground backfilling which impacted overall mining efficiency and cost at Kensington.
Bill throughput was 129 057 tons consistent with the fourth quarter of 2012.
Gold grade is expected to gradually increase during the remaining quarters of 2013 as scheduled (inaudible) in process; capital expenditures at Kensington were $3 million.
As we mentioned Joe Phillips recently joined our team as Chief Development Officer and brings with him international mining development experience including the successful construction of two mines in Mexico.
Joe will lead our development efforts at La Preciosa and other capital projects.
I will now turn the call over to him.
Thank you Frank.
I would like start by saying its pleasure to be part of Coeur's team and to work on developing exciting projects like La Preciosa.
I would like to start with slide 19.
On April 16th Coeur acquired Orko Silver.
The key asset of this acquisition is the La Preciosa project in Mexico with 32 400 hectare of contiguous mining plants almost three times the size of the Palmarejo district.
This acquisition provides four key benefits to our shareholders.
First is diversified Coeur’s portfolio across the larger platform of assets.
Second it reduces our overall political risk profile.
Third it provides accretive significant growth in production and cash flow over a long mine life.
Finally it’s expected to generate rate of return in excess of our cost and capital.
La Preciosa is one of the largest undeveloped silver deposits in the world with the potential to grow even larger through further drilling.
The silver resource estimate is 99 million ounces of indicated and 140 million ounces of inferred.
The property is well located with significant infrastructure in place including highway access to the property and close proximity to power and railroad lines.
Our efforts at La Preciosa is focused on three principle areas.
First is to complete a preliminary economic assessment which will provide a scoping level at the mine plants and projects economics M3 engineers will prepare the PEA by the end of the second quarter of 2013.
Following completion of the assessment we expect to start basic engineering and full feasibility work in the second half of 2013 along with exploration in filed and development drilling.
As mentioned in previous announcements our studies indicate that a large surface mine will provide the most robust project at current metal prices.
And we’ll enable the recovery of a larger percentage of the resource.
Our second effort is to build the team which will take La Preciosa forward to feasibility construction and operation.
We’ve hired Bruce Kennedy as the General Manager of the project.
Bruce most recently led the turnaround of large Pirquitas Silver mine in Northern Argentina and has successfully managed projects in Latin America including Goldcorp's large Peñasquito Mine in Mexico where he was the operations manager.
Finally we’re working on key infrastructure at the site and establishing an effective community relations program.
On slide 20 you’ll see an aerial photo of the property looking south at the mine site plant and tailing locations.
The La Preciosa property is a favorable location to build the mine.
Slide 21 breaks down the expected timeline for advancing La Preciosa.
As mentioned the PEA completed in second quarter of 2013 and we will continue developing our exploration and development teams.
Our third quarter the technical report for the PEA will be filed and we expect the commence exploration drilling.
2014 will be dedicated to the feasibility study.
2015 to 2016 will be mine construction and we expect initial production in the second half of 2016.
Continuing on the slide 22 I’d like to talk a bit about our capital expenditures for 2013.
As Mitch mentioned we’re currently reviewing all of our capital projects inline of recent changes in metal prices.
To ensure the expected returns meet our investment hurdle rates.
We expect this process to result in a reduction of our capital spending in the second half of the year.
Our capital projects for 2013 are focused on increasing production capacity reducing cost and improving efficiency.
The projections on slide 22 do not yet include CapEx estimates for the La Preciosa for the reminder of the year.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Don to take us through the first quarter 2013 exploration highlights.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning everyone.
At the peak of the quarter we had 10 drills and crews working continuing at the pace we have set in 2012.
Majority of our investment remains focused on our large operating and advanced stage properties with Palmarejo leading the way.
You will see some favorable results the 108 Las Animas and Tucson‐Chapotillo zones at Palmarejo and from Rochester Kensington and San Bartolomé.
I will describe some of these in more detail next.
Four core drills rags given the Palmarejo district two underground and two on surface.
Two underground drills are working at the 108 and 76 zones.
On surface we drilled at Tucson‐Chapotillo and Las Animas.
Favorable results were obtained from all of these areas but particularly from 108 and Las Animas.
As the compilations are included in the appendix section of this presentation for your reference.
Our objective in 108 is to upgrade and expand mineral resources which will lead to new reserves.
526 shows a section BO108 working northeast and a three dimensional view in the upper left corner for prospective.
We are pleased with the results we received thus far and a new phase of drilling is being planned.
Shifting to Guadalupe surface drilling there in the first quarter was devoted to the Las Animas Zone.
In 2012 we reexamined the zone and saw good potential for it to be mined with surface method.
As a result first quarter drilling and surface trenching were used to define and upgrade new mineral resources up dip and on straight.
We are now making plans for follow up drilling all of which we expect to increase the size of Las Animas this year.
We have recently acquired La Curra a property which adjoins Las Animas on the southeast.
The addition of this property to our portfolio will benefit both surface mine planning and follow up drilling.
Shifting now to United States slide 28 identifies stockpiles build up at our Rochester mine since we began operating there over 25 years ago.
Last year we commenced drilling on the west stockpile to define mineral resources compliant with current standards.
Successful in that initial work demonstrate the viability of stockpiles as a new stores of these for the company's heap leach moderating facilities.
This material now accounts for over 42% of our reserve tonnes and about 40% of the contained silver ounces all within just one of the stockpiles.
Much of our work in the Rochester in the first quarter was devoted to further infill drilling of the west and an initial drilling on the south stockpile.
Slide 29 shows the results from first quarter drilling on the west stockpile in more detail where 2012 drilling shown for reference.
In the coming months we will continue with reverse circulation and sonic drilling on these stockpiles.
Finally our first quarter program at Kensington Alaska continues to focus largely on definition drilling and outlying new mineral resources.
One of the targets we're drilling in this year is Kensington south.
(Inaudible) gold-bearing quartz sulphide vein situated about 1 000 feet south of the Kensington mine.
Late 2000 drill results received this quarter are shown on slide 30.
To improve further drilling access this year we commenced driving a new 750 foot long hanging wall drift new drift is on schedule and upon completion expected to improve definition of this exciting new target.
With that I will turn it to over to Mitch.
Thanks Don.
Before I close I want to take a minute to recognize three Coeur directors who will not stand for re-election at this year’s shareholder meeting.
My thanks go to Jim Curran Jim Winter and Michael Bogert for their significant contributions and service over the years.
I am grateful to each of them for their dedication and support.
Joining the Coeur board in 2013 our Linda Adamany and pending their election of the annual meeting on May 14 Kevin Crutchfield and Randy Gress each have distinguished backgrounds and bring significant expertise to the company’s board.
I would also like to thank our Chairman Rob Miller and all remaining directors for their continued advice guidance as we worked towards the common goal of building a great company.
On slide 32 as I have said before our team is driven by the strategic priorities shown on this slide which are straight forward and achievable and provide the foundation for every decision we make.
By accomplishing these objectives we are confident we will create value over the long term for our shareholders.
This is a great time to be a cash flow generating precious metals Company with no external capital needs.
There are many opportunities right now and we feel the landscape will only become more attractive.
I have never seen anything like it in my seventeen years in the business.
Many companies’ evaluations ones with quality assets just don’t make a lot of sense at current levels.
Although we will be opportunistic and disciplined as we look at ways to create value we’re first and foremost focused on achieving operational consistency and efficiency.
We appreciate the fact that it’s the free cash flow from our existing mines that makes everything else possible and makes this unique within our challenged industry.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today.
Operator we are not ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Jeff Wright of Global Hunter.
I am looking at Rochester first.
It looks like there was a follow up on the silver recoveries.
Can you guys discuss is that due to dilution or what is being done to address to get the recoveries back to more than normal range from the previous quarters?  There has been really no change in the behavior of the ore in the metallurgical sense still target long term recovery rates of silver of 60% and the range of 90% on gold.
We do have inner period fluctuations of recovery depending on how much ore has been placed on the path and all that was leach lines and so on.
So well I think you would be seeing a slight pattern that would reflect some of those fluctuations that can take place but we are still looking at 60% over the long term on silver.
Then if I am kind of moving over to Palmarejo if I am looking at the grade obviously in the press release you guys mentioned that the grade did come up in March and into April what do you think we should be looking at for silver grades at Palmarejo for the balance of the year? What number would you guys will be comfortable with?  If you look Joe just at March results in the open pit we averaged about 4.5 ounces per ton silver and about 0.3 ounce per ton gold those are open pit grades and the underground grades of little over 4.5 silver and 0.12 on gold we will see most likely increase in the underground grades but those open pit grades will be about like what I just stated from March.
And given the fall of in silver and gold prices over the past 30 days have you guys contemplated or are you in the process of contemplating pushing any developments or other capital expenses or cancelling any development or capital expenses for the balance of the year? Well we are talking a look at all of our capital expenditures for the remainder of the year to make sure they make sense under a lower priced environment and prioritizing those that are critical to the sustainability of our operations or compliance driven.
Anything after that that has to exceed our hurdle rates based on a lower price assumption and so that exercise is underway.
I think Joe that is scheduled to be completed at the end of June just.
so we will have more tom say about that I guess on our second quarter call but we are taking a look at that from a development standpoint there is really nothing that we are looking at changing there and from a mine planning standpoint it is pretty much steady as she goes what we need to do there is just focus on what we would be focusing on at any price and that is to be more efficient and identifying opportunities to reduce costs and improve consistency.
And that like I said that takes place and has been taking place despite the volatility we saw in silver and gold in April.
Your next question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain of Deutsche Bank.
My question had to do a little bit with capital discipline sort of in light of the new perceived reality of gold and silver prices in terms of La Preciosa and I don't want to put the cart before the horse here but could you talk a little bit about if you did get to a construction decision there you have any kind of optionality in terms of doing a phased or a staged project and would you contemplate perhaps bringing in a joint venture partner at some point down the road again given the concern we've see with companies historically of perhaps biting off more than they can chew I just wonder if you could talk about how you would do the development potential of that project without endangering your company's equity value.
I'll say a couple of things then I'll turn it over to Joe on that.
We will only do things with our capital that exceed our cost of capital and I don't think that has been a rule followed all that frequently historically by the industry and we hope to be and plan to be to the point of having a construction decision to be made on the Preciosa next summer so in the meantime we'll be doing the feasibility study first the PEA then the feasibility design engineering (inaudible) drilling and so the price that we’ve seen fall off here in the last few weeks is certainly a consideration but then it also has to be factored against where we think silver prices will be in a year from now and that construction decision needs to be made and then what that outlook we think looks like over the following 20 years which is always a challenge.
This is a large deposit but from a size standpoint relative to our company it’s not a huge bite it's not a multibillion dollar project it’s not something that we see ourselves you know putting the company at great risk over.
We’re comfortable with the size of this project so I we don't really have any interest in bringing in a joint venture partner.
This is sort of right down the middle of our fairway for a company our size; at least we feel that way.
I'll let Joey answer from his perspective on the rest of your question Jorge.
Hello Jorge.
Thanks for the question.
One of the things that I think the benefits that we'll be taking advantage of with Coeur being a cash flowing company at a time like this is my view from being a mine builder this is the best time in history for someone to build a mine all of the engineering companies suppliers and consultants are starving for work so you get good prices get the A-team and you get things delivered on time so again presuming as we hope for positive results from our PEA we'll be looking to go forward.
Maybe just re done a follow up; you mentioned at Rochester that 40% of the resource was identified in one stock file.
Could you talk a little bit about the legalities; the legal challenges around the ownership there and if you could still be proceeding ahead now based on the fact that there is a lot of concentration of the oar in one stock pile.
Let's come back to your question; it was mentioned 40 some percent basically is in the reserve category on this.
So if you look at the technical reports that we filed Jorge you will see that in the Rochester; these stock piles are personal property so I will discuss more about the legal aspects of it just that we feel comfortable putting them where we haven't?  Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaip of BMO Capital Markets.
With respect to La Preciosa I am just wondering if you indicated that you haven't set a budget for the project over the next twelve years as you move to a decision.
But I am wondering if you can give us a sense of what are the key priorities that you think that needs to be done and with respect to not it would include items like land acquisitions has that have been started and then also; I like to get a better sense on the infill drilling program; I know that PAN American had been quite embedded into drilling and certain aspects of the deposit.
But there are other portions of the deposit that remain very widely spaced in drilling and I am just wondering what your view on infill drilling and the quantity of infill drilling that you foresee.
Looking at our spending in our activity over the remainder of the year; probably three main things we will be working on.
Land acquisition being one water rights being the second one and our exploration and infill drilling activities being the third.
We will have ongoing engineering studies and design to which we will also add to the costs.
So we are looking at expenditures probably in the range of 10-20 million.
Your second question on the infill drilling and I'll pass it on to Don if he wants to add anything else but being familiar with the property.
The previous PEA was done on the evaluation I believe; 16 of the veins on the property and there is a reasonable amount of drilling on the property certainly enough for my design.
But there is certainly an opportunity for us to upgrade the components in some of those resources.
The second thing is I believe another 14 banks on the property that were identified in fact by one or two holes but don’t have a confidence level for us to be included in the current PEA and we are quite interested and anxious to do a little more drilling on those to see if they might be rolled in reduce our strip ratios and improve the economic.
I mirror what Joe said Andrew.
This deposit you could see lots of opportunities to grow this both internally and externally and the first thing we need to do is see how the results of the PEA that Joe talked about come up and designed the drilling program accordingly and right now we can do it on paper but it would be better to look at where we need to strategically place drill holes based upon the results of the analysis.
Okay so you’re really going to use that PEA as really the template for moving it forward? Yes that’s right Andrew.
Your next question comes from the line of the Anant Inani from JPMorgan.
Most of my questions have been answered but a couple of quick ones so you’ve talked about dislocation in market and opportunities in junior mining space are you looking some more specific assets? We always are and we stay focused on really the jurisdictions where we currently have a presence like I said where our priority number one is achieving a level of consistency in our operations but we do have our head up and opportunistically looking at some situations that we think represents some real fundamental value and make sense for us to be evaluating.
Now it’s nice now to have more of a technical staff and skill set here than we’ve had I think historically to be able to evaluate these things a bit more thoroughly and we’re going through that process on several different situations.
But we will only do something that the organization can handle absorb.
We will only do something that achieves the right kind of return and we will do something in the right jurisdiction for the business.
We’re not going to go out there and do anything really huge or anything that really gets us off of what we considered would be our core business.
Thank you and do you have any thumb rule as to the size of the project et cetera that you seek out? Like I said we don’t want to do anything back to Jorge's point earlier is that is a company maker breaker that’s not we think the right thing for this company right now but at the same time we want make sure that we’re spending our time in resources on opportunities that would at least move the needle for the company so I know that’s a pretty wide range I just painted there but we’re not looking for anything really big and we’re not going to waste our time on something really small.
Okay got it and more generally you also talked about change in your opening comment so with this organization wise staff movement you move to Chicago changing the Company name.
What message are you trying to send to investors in the market? We are trying to send the message that we are serious about following a different path than the one that’s been followed by the industry over the last 20 years.
That playbook has not scored a lot of touch downs over the last couple of decades and we’re willing to go our own path and be a bit of a pioneer and that’s reflected in selection of a new headquarter city and in not completely stepping away from the heritage of our name but simplifying it a bit and reflecting the fact that it is a bit of a restart for company that’s had a long presence in the silver industry.
(Operator Instructions).
And our next question comes from the line of Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Do you guys mentioned that you were potentially looking at more acquisitions then I guess I figured between La Preciosa and other ramp ups that you’re got going on here and share buybacks.
It feels like your plate is pretty full.
Are you looking for a large acquisitions tuck-in acquisitions and then sort of obviously more from a bondholder standpoint would you add more leverage to make these acquisitions? We don’t have an appetite do anything that's significant in size tuck-in anything where we can leverage existing infrastructure people know how and it has be some strategic merit to an acquisition and not just going out to acquire ounces.
That is a bit of a futile exercise in our opinion.
Would we add more debt to the balance sheet? We have a pretty conservative philosophy there of one times or less trailing EBITDA if there was an acquisition opportunity that had existing cash flow that would provide us with the ability to maintain that conservative ratio but add a little bit of leverage to make an acquisition in a shareholder friendly way that’s a situation we’d certainly consider but we very mindful of the fact that we’re in a cyclical commodity business and we want to maintain a balance sheet that reflects that.
Okay.
It sounds like we don’t have anybody else in the queue.
So with that we’ll wrap up.
And again I appreciate everybody’s time and we will be back with you again in three months with hopefully progress on all the initiatives that we laid out for you here today.
So thanks again for your time.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Rebecca and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been place on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Ms.
Bridget Freas you may begin your conference.
Thank you Rebecca.
Welcome everyone to our second quarter earnings conference call.
I am Bridget Freas Director of Investor Relations.
This call is also being webcast on our website at www.coeur.com where we have posted slides to accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available on our website through August 22.
We will be discussing some forward-looking and other preliminary information today and we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projection.
Please review our cautionary statement shown on slide two and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry described in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the US SEC and Canadian regulators.
We will also be discussing some non-GAAP figures that we believe provide meaningful information to our investors.
The appendices to our slides contain a reconciliation of the non-GAAP information to U.S.
GAAP.
On the call today are Mitchell Krebs President and Chief Executive Officer; Peter Mitchell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Hanagarne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Don Birak Senior Vice President of Exploration; and Joe Philip Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer.
Let’s get started.
Mitch please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks Bridget.
Welcome to everyone on the call and thank you for joining us today.
We pick today for our earnings no enterprises would be up strongly so that’s a good day be announcing our quarterly results.
We had a very solid quarter which reflects a lot of hard work and dedication from the entire team.
We have a 21% increase in silver production and 7% increase in gold production versus the first quarter.
Operating cash flow was 63 million or $0.63 per share.
Operating the financial performance of Palmarejo was very strong due to higher grades 24% higher silver production and 23% higher gold production compared to the prior quarter.
San Bartolomé had another consisting quarter and Kensington was basically flat compared to the first quarter due to lower grades but as positioned for a stronger second half.
Rochester continued its ramp up but at a slower rate that we were targeting.
We are anticipating a stronger second half now that additional crushing capacity is in place.
We are reinvesting low levels of capital back in to our existing operations in order to maximize net cash flow.
These projects at San Bartolome and Rochester are expected to be completed under budget and begin paying back by the end of the year.
We settle the outstanding claims dispute at Rochester which allowed us to accelerate our plans to further expand this operation for a minimal capital and we also closed the Orko Silver acquisition during the second quarter and recently completed a PEA for La Preciosa in Mexico.
We are now kicking off a feasibility study there which is expected to be completed by the middle of next year.
We’ll focus our efforts at La Preciosa on optimizing the project in order to maximize returns assuming current lower prices.
We won’t proceed with construction at La Preciosa unless we feel we have a project that can generate an all-in rate of return that significantly exceeds our cost of capital and we also ended June with $350 million of cash and available credit lines.
Our main focus remains the same as is has been since last year which is to find ways to maximize our net cash flow and achieve operational consistency.
I am encourage with the progress we are showing and I am enthusiastic about the opportunities and targets we’ve identified to deliver positive net cash flow during the second half of the year.
I think slide 5 does a good job of highlighting the four areas we are focusing on to maximize the company’s net cash flow.
It's not just about cutting cost it's about being sufficient and finding as many ways as we can to generate as much cash flow as possible.
In the area of revenue enhancements we're prioritizing higher grades stopes for second half production at Kensington or an increase in crushing capacity at Rochester for minimum capital or completing the plant expansion at San Bartolome to drive higher throughput.
We're going to increase the recovery rates at Palmarejo through optimization work which is expected to increase revenue and lower unit cost in the second half of the year and all of these represents recurring incremental revenue for the company that will mostly fall straight to the bottom line.
In the area of cost reduction as we've already realized $19 million in cash operating cost savings in the first half of the year.
We feel we're on track to generate an addition $8 million to $9 million in further operating cost reductions during the second half even with higher than planned production levels.
Examples include reduction in outside of contract services shorter waste hall distances and greater cost efficiency within the maintenance systems.
We have also reduced our second half exploration budget by 17%.
Nearly all of these reductions will also continue to benefit the company in future periods.
In the area of capital spending reductions we completed at the end of June a top to bottom review of all ongoing and planned capital expenditures the mission was to limit capital investments only for projects that are either necessary for health and safety environmental protection for the long term sustainability of the operation or expect to generate a significant return on that capital.
As a result we have eliminated or deferred $24 million of capital projects in 2013 which reduces our projected 2013 CapEx by 18% to a range of $100 million to $110 million for the full year.
As we look ahead to 2014 we're targeting CapEx of $80 million or less which we believe will allow us to remain cash flow positive at current prices.
In the area of working capital improvements we reduced our working capital needs by $12 million in the first half of 2013 by focusing on reductions in supply and material inventory and are targeting $30 million of additional working capital reductions by the end of the year.
We're maintaining our prior guidance for full year silver and gold production.
We're also maintaining our guidance for cash operating cost for silver ounce despite lower gold byproduct credits which reflects the expected efficiency gains and cost reductions as outlined.
As we execute on our production and cost reduction targets we continue the process of elevating worker safety to the point of becoming a true company value.
That commitment was recognized this quarter by the Nevada Mining Association which honored Rochester with the first place safety award for surface operations medium mine category for safety performance in calendar of 2012.
Company-wide our last time incident frequency rate declined 56% in the first half of the year which is something we're awfully pretty proud of and continue to work very hard off.
Now I would like to introduce Peter Mitchell who joined us in June as our Chief Financial Officer and has been doing a terrific job.
I'll turn the call over to him to take us through the second quarter financial highlights.
Thanks Mitch.
Slide seven highlights the second quarter financial results.
We saw 5.2 million ounces of silver and 63 389 ounces of gold generating about $205 million in metal sales and $62 million cash flow from operations.
Consolidated production costs were $143 million in the second quarter on per ounce basis total production cost declined 3% for silver ounce an increased 6% for gold ounce compared to the first quarter.
Our G&amp;A increased by $5 million sequentially with the majority of the increase coming from silver (inaudible) and business development.
CapEx was approximately $27 million in the second quarter 2013; about twice as much as we spent in the first quarter as we made further progress on projects critical to company.
Cash and cash equivalents were about $250 million in June 30 2013.
The company has a $100 million revolving credit facility which (inaudible) undrawn.
The table on slide eight shows average realized prices ounces produced and sold cash operating costs on a per ounce basis.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank Hanagarne now who will take us through the second quarter operational highlights.
Thanks Peter.
Slide 10 indicates the second quarter 2013 operational highlights and priorities for all four of our primary mines.
Second quarter 2013 production Kensington gold mine in Alaska was down 8% from the first quarter and cash operating cost per gold ounce increased 6% due to ore grades.
We expect production from this mine to increase and cash operating cost per ounce to decline in the second half of the year as we mine expected to higher ore grades.
Operating performance at our Rochester silver gold mine in Nevada improved this quarter.
The silver and gold production of 30% and 8% respectively over the first quarter.
However this was a slower ramp up than we had expected due to poor crusher performance during the quarter.
We expect the capacity expansion underway at Rochester will accelerate production in the second half of 2013.
Production improved significantly at our Palmarejo mine in Mexico the second quarter silver and gold production are 24% and 23% respectively compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Silver and gold ore grades from both open pit and from underground operations improved compared to the first quarter and recovery rates are expected to increase by the end of the year.
Our San Bartolomé mine in Bolivia had a solid quarter with small improvements in production and operating cost from the first quarter.
The planned mill expansion at San Bartolomé is expected to drive annual production levels up over 6 million ounces of silver in 2014 and for the next several years.
We plan to provide a three-year production forecast for each of these operations later this year.
turning now to the operating performance details of each of our mines.
Slide 11 shows second quarter 2013 highlights Palmarejo.
Although productions levels at Palmarejo started off slowly this year as a result of lower mining rates planned ore grades rebound in the second quarter got us back on track and we remain confident in our 2013 guidance this important asset.
Palmarejo generated metal sales of $86 million in the second quarter.
As previously discussed we sold more ounces and reproduced due to a timing lag in the first quarter.
Palmarejo produce 3 million ounces of silver and 28 191 ounces of gold and cash operating cost of $3.25 per silver ounce.
Ongoing cost reduction initiatives at Palmarejo have lowered cash operating cost and we expect to make further progress in the second half of the year.
Capital expenditures at Palmarejo were $9.2 million for the quarter.
Process recovery enhancements at Palmarejo are expected to boost recovery rates by 5% to 10% by year end.
San Bartolomé generated $49 million in sales in the second quarter; cash operating cost per silver ounce were $12.89 compared to $13.27 in the first quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditures in the second quarter were $3.2 million.
The low expansion project underway at San Bartolomé is expected to increase processing capacity at the mine of approximately 10% to 15% in 2013.
We expect the expansion to be completed under budget and generate less than two-year of payback.
This expansion project is on schedule and expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Turning to slide 13 second quarter production at Rochester was 843 845 ounces of silver and 9 404 ounces of gold increases of 30% and 80% respectively compared to the first quarter.
Cash operating cost of $14.75 per silver ounce were 9% higher in the first quarter 2013; metal sales totaled $35 million.
We remain very enthusiastic about the 2013 expansion underway at Rochester.
We'll invest about $4 million of share to expand crushing capacity from 9 million tons to 14 million tons.
Monthly crusher throughput is expected to increase in the second half of 2013 leading to expected higher second half silver and gold production.
In addition we're expanding the mines heap leach capacity to approximately 67 million tons at an estimated capital cost of about $15 million.
This plant expansion is design to accommodate sustained higher production rates driven by mining ore contained in historic stockpiles.
These stockpiles were created during the mines 26-year operating history when gold and silver prices were significantly lower than the current market.
Capital expenditures at Rochester were $6.6 million in the second quarter.
Kensington produced 23 162 ounces of gold in the second quarter an 8% decline from the first quarter.
This contributed to a 6% increase in cash operating cost of $1 115 per ounce in the second quarter.
Metal sales totaled $31 million for the quarter.
Average mill head grade of 0.18 ounces per ton was 10% lower than the first quarter due to processing of lower grade stockpile ore.
The gold grade is expected to increase during the second half of 2013 as scheduled stopes are mind and processed.
Capital expenditures at Kensington were $7.4 million.
I'll now turn the call over to Joe Philip to discuss our development efforts at La Preciosa.
Thank you Frank.
In July we completed a preliminary economic assessment for La Preciosa which demonstrates the viability of the project at higher silver and gold prices and provides a solid foundation from which we believe we can enhance the projects economic over time.
We are starting basic engineering and full feasibility work in the second half of 2013 from exploration infill and development drilling.
We are also working on key infrastructure sites and have been focused on a sound proactive community relations program in the area.
The PEA include an additional mine life of 17 years producing an average of 9.1 million silver ounces and 15 100 gold ounces per year over the first 14 years at an average cash operating cost of $13.86 per silver ounce.
On slide 18 we outlined some of the key areas that focus for the feasibility study for improving the economics of the project.
Our goal over the coming year will be to develop opportunities to make La Preciosa a compelling project at current spot prices.
We’ll be focusing exploration efforts in areas we believe will add resources and reserves reduce strip ratio and improve rigs.
Metallurgical studies will evaluate methods to increase the expected recovery rate optimize reagents select the best throughput rate and improve overall plant economics.
Slide 19 breaks down the expected timeline for La Preciosa showing completion of our PEA in the second quarter and the filing of the PEA on the third quarter 2013.
We’ll be commencing the feasibility study over the coming year and based upon favorable results we will only commence and complete mine construction during 2015 to 2016.
That will give us an expected initial production in the second half of 2016.
I’d like to reinforce the comments made by Mitch and Frank regarding our capital program.
Coeur took initiative in 2013 to execute too high return project to improve the production and reduce cost at Rochester and San Bartolome.
These projects are expected to be completed and begin showing benefits by the end of this year.
We are fortunate that our operations are now well positioned to operate efficiently in the coming year with minimal sustaining capital.
Kensington San Bartolome and Rochester should have only modest to sustaining capital requirements next year.
And at Palmarejo we are evaluating the opportunity to scale down and defer the silver works for the next tailing cliff further reducing capital.
We believe our investments in capacity enhancements and efficiency improvement over the past two years will enable us to harvest the benefit with lower cost and improve recoveries in coming quarters.
Our unique mineral deposits at properties like Palmarejo also offer significant flexibility to adjust our operating plans and respond to lower prices without significant long-term impact to the operations.
With that I will turn the call over to Don Birak to take us through the second quarter 2013 exploration highlights.
Thanks Joe.
I am pleased to give you this update on our second quarter 2013 exploration program.
At the peak of the quarter we had 11 drills (inaudible).
Good results were obtained from Palmarejo Rochester and Kensington this quarter and I will cover those in a next few slides.
Looking forward we recently committed to a 17% reduction in our budgeted 2013 exploration and additional $3 million of the budget relocated to our new La Preciosa project.
For your reference we have included our second quarter results in the appendix of this presentation.
And our largest program conducted at Palmarejo district exploration focused on three areas Guadalupe around the current Palmarejo surface in underground mining area targets in the district (inaudible) plan that of Guadalupe and are willing to expand the size of Las Animas surface minable reserves.
Good results were obtained from joining at El Salto and we commenced target drilling target generation rig on La Curra both additional potential to contribute to expansion of our Las Animas.
Shifting to the Palmarejo mine area we show on this plan view the targets we drilled in the quarter and those that we plan to drill in the second half of the year.
Today our best results have come from underground joining on the 108 Interclavos zones and from around the Tucson/Chapotillo zones.
Many drilled assets are pending.
We are encouraged by the results thus far and expect to see positive impacts underground to surface minable resources and reserves.
Finally we are evaluating opportunities to expand the (Inaudible) surface mine southeast with the upper part of the 76 level and at debt.
Now we move to Rochester and our second large drilling program in the quarter.
Expansion here continues to define ore grades within our historic stockpile material built over the long history of this large silver and gold mine in Nevada.
Recall we commenced this work last year and estimated that around 150 million short tons of material are contained various stockpile shown on this slide 24.
That work resulted in definition of new mineral reserves and resources on nearly a third the estimated total tons.
And we continue to drill to define and expand stockpile resources.
In the coming months we are planning to update our year end 2012 mineral resources and reserves at Rochester to reflect the impact of the recently settled claim system as mentioned by Mitch.
Complement the evaluation of low cost stockpile in Rochester.
We commenced work to find new areas with potential to add to new mineral resources and reserves.
Seven areas are shown on this map and work continues to select neutral cites within them.
In addition we show a cross section looking north to the main Rochester deposit demonstrating the potential to expand the mine limits.
Now we move further north to Alaska and our Kensington gold mine.
Most of our work this past quarter in addition to ongoing definition drilling from underground was devoted to expanding the size of the current Kensington oil resource and reserves.
There we showed some of the results of the team which suggest Kensington operation extends over 200 feets in the South and is open both to depths and up.
Joining of this favorable sector of the mine quarter was made possible by a new development heading on the 1170 foot level shown here.
At this stage drilling is still very fairly widely space but results are very encouraging towards achieving our goal (inaudible) of Kensington.
Mitch? Thanks Don.
As I said at the beginning of the call we're focused on maximizing our net cash flow and maintaining operational consistency.
We feel we have a solid plan in place to address the lower prices we're currently experiencing.
Our portfolio of five operations provides us with a range of options and opportunities to adjust to the current environment.
We expect to be net cash flow positive during the second half of the year and in 2014 at these current price levels.
We are maintaining our production guidance for the full-year and look forward to providing you with three years plans for each of our operations later this year.
We do see more upside to silver and gold prices than downside but we will continue to manage the company in a way that reflects the current reality and protect stockholder value.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today and operator we’re ready for questions.
Operator? Hey Mitch.
Congrats on your results and just two follow-up question one is if you could kind of [demention] the inventory write-downs and whether that was a cash or non-cash impact just kind of explain the mechanics behind that? That’s my first question.
Those strategic investments were mark down at June 30th that’s a non-cash impairment on those holdings.
Sorry I was referring to the inventory adjustment.
The inventory… Inventories were reduced in terms of price down we’ve been very modest adjustments nothing (inaudible) Well I guess my question is that write-down flowed through EBITDA.
The write-down on the investments? On the inventory.
You mean the 12 million of reductions in inventory in the first half? You had mentioned $24 million in the second quarter resulted.
So I am looking at page 34 of your presentation change in inventory was about a $24 million impact and I am just trying to understand if that was actually a drag on your EBITDA for the quarter it seems line a one-off.
That change in the inventory would just have primarily metal sold at the end of the first quarter to the end of the second quarter.
So in calculating EBITDA that would all be sort of below or not in that calculation.
May be I will circle back offline on that but the other question I had was you mentioned modest sustaining capital for 2014 going forward on your mind like Rochester and San Barts that are kind of steady stating.
What kind of number would you be looking out for sustaining capital overall for quarterly for 2014? We said in our comments there and I think in our release the target of 80 million total next year in 2014 of total CapEx which includes capitalized exploration which would be somewhere in the $10 million to $15 million range so you kind of take that off the 80 and then split the rest really in half between sustaining and then plant expansion capital.
Your next question comes from [Matt Vitureosa] with Barclays.
Yeah hi guys (Inaudible) in for Matt here.
How are you? So with regard to the press release I know you guys are currently starting that feasibility study and I just want to confirm do you currently expect to spend like $15 million in the back half of ‘13 and another $18 million in 2014 is that about right? To get to the middle of 2014 objective of a feasibility study completion that total expenditure should be around $25 million I know that we are targeting about $15 million in the first half.
So that leaves the other $10 million for the first half of next year and then we'll trying to get to that decision point the summer of 2014.
Great.
Expense right back half or what? That should almost all be expense.
Okay.
And then can you just maybe walk us through the decision process as it pertain to that go no go you're facing second half of ‘14 I know that I am making the slide deck here you mentioned silver prices in mid-20s generate all-in return an excess of cost of capital.
Is that sort of where we should you thinking about as you guys make a decision at that point? Yeah.
So over the course of the next 12 months as we work to the feasibility and some of the areas of opportunity that Joe outlined during our prepared remarks we'll hope to see middle of next summer it's a project that based on the price deck at that point in time can generate or return in excess of what in our hurdle rate which we consider to be in the 10% to 13% range.
So it will need to exceed that minimum level on an [OEM] basis.
In terms of precious metal prices that get you there silver in the mid-20s call it roughly 25 boxes.
Is sort of what you are thinking is that? Well we have to see what the extent of the optimization work.
No pressure Joe but the more we can squeeze on the project the lower that price threshold will be next summer and it's our goal to get that down as close to current spot as possible and still achieve those return minimum return criteria and then how far down that silver price can go and still achieve those returns is really going to be driven by the work that’s just kicking off now.
Fair enough and then just a quick one on the settlement of those claims with Rye Patch at Rochester.
I think there was some mention of potential expanding production at Rochester.
Can you just sort of give us a sensitive plans and timeline? Is that I guess when that might take place and how you guys are thinking about that? There are sort of three stages to Rochester’s future.
The first of which is underway right now that we go into some detail in the press release regarding the additional 67 million tones of capacity.
So that’s kind of stage one and that’s going to allow us to achieve this 4 million 5 million ounce silver production range which is up pretty significantly compared to last year which was 2.8 million ounces of silver where in the meantime we’re working on permitting further expansion at Rochester for additional lease pad capacity that would add an additional 100 million tones on top of the expansion that we’re working on right now.
So that would allow us to not only extend the mine life but with some investment in crushing capacity we could hopefully lift the production levels up once that permitting process in the construction is complete and that’s probably three years from now and then once that get going then we’ll beginning our work on the third phase which will really be focused on getting after the additional about 300 million tones of materials that we have there at Rochester in the measured and indicated and inferred resource categories.
And that will be a full feasibility and then another permitting cycle which will then again further extend Rochester and also allow us to step up production but that’s probably about five years away.
You got it to being free cash flow positive in two half ‘13 and also in all of 2014 is that after CapEx? Yeah.
That would be after walking down the cash flow statement operating cash flow less CapEx less royalty payment the Franco-Nevada would show up in financing section of our cash flow statement.
Got it.
So actually you will be building cash from that sort of 2.49 5 number that you are at now sort of through the next 18 months? Yeah.
That’s right that’s what we expect.
Okay.
I mean is there a possibility that you are comfortable enough sort of with the status quote that you might increase some of your CapEx to kind of keep the [reserve] closer to neutral.
That’s a good question.
We were just talking about that yesterday internally as we go through the budget cycle here in the last half of the year.
there will be opportunities presented all of which will have a fairly high bar and a high return threshold associated with them and then those that we think have the potential to generate significant rates of return we would probably take that step and move ahead with those but setting that bar higher next year is going to cause a lot of projects to not to make the cut but if there are ones that are unique enough then value creating enough to include yeah that’s what we should be doing as a company and as a management team is redeploying free cash and the high return opportunities like that.
And then the last one sort of (inaudible) of size in the same question is there a minimum level of cash or liquidity that you don’t feel comfortable going beyond? Definitely 5 to 100 million is around the number that we look at it as being a baseline bucket.
Hi Mitch.
I just had a quick one regarding the recoveries at Palmarejo this quarter it seems like the 81.2 is significantly below historical levels which usually been a very 10% higher.
I know you mentioned that’s the area you expect recoveries to improve but is there a specific reason for the sudden drop? Yeah.
I'll ask Frank to handle that.
Palmarejo in our open pit find in our current mine plan working through the zone that has elevated levels of manganese which has created some recovery loss in the floatation circuit at Palmarejo.
We are working to address that now on an ongoing basis.
And then we have some issues in the CIL circuit which treats the floatation tail and we've been having some sizable losses that we're also working to remediate through a plan flow sheet modification.
Your next question comes from John Bridges from JPMorgan.
Just wondered you must be very popular down in (inaudible) with the tax you are paying.
Just wondered if you could give us a bit of guidance as to what we should we expect and what we should be putting into our models for the next few quarters for that? Yeah.
Its great making a lot of money but the tax men is always there knocking on the door and that's the case for us both in Bolivia and Mexico.
Peter do you want to effective tax rates? The effective tax rate approaching 40% in Bolivia and about 35% in Mexico and as a result the level of profitability in those countries at the level of tax (inaudible).
And then in the U.S.
Basically we have (inaudible).
And that number you are quoting doesn’t include the royalties and things like that done in Bolivia? That’s right.
That’s just the income tax rate.
Like in Bolivia the gross revenues royalty of 6% that we paid that is picked up in production cost.
And then just as a follow up the old dumps that you are going back into how robust are those lower silver prices? We removed the word dumps from our vocabulary.
We call them stockpile but it's the robust nature.
Correct me if I am wrong but I think the economics that we run on those go down to $13 silver range.
That’s right.
We don’t have the (inaudible) cost to just pick it up and move it metallurgy so it really is low cost and I can’t remember exactly the low end number but I think it is right in that range.
I'll get you the gold number John in an email sent to you that has the corresponding gold price that I think it might be in the technical report.
What we used for the reserves? What we use in the reserves 14.25 and 27.50 for the last year and of course that’s going to change going forward but that was on that was over stockpile material.
That’s right.
And John as part of the probably late third quarter when we come out with and provide some three year look forward fleet of our operations that will include and I think we mentioned this in our July production release for the second quarter or maybe it was on the heels of the settlement press release at Rochester.
We are going to restate or come out with an revise reserve number for Rochester that removes that claims dispute constraint from the equation just to give everybody a better handle or some better visibility on what the reserves are now there without that constraint in place.
So that should be helpful.
Yeah.
Absolutely that will helpful a lot.
Thanks a lot.
First on these three year plans that are going to be providing is there a particular silver prices based on? Frank what are we using in those? We are using prices currently silver between 19 and 20 we haven’t landed on our final figure yet and 12.50 gold at the moment.
Okay.
That will be great.
Secondly in the press release you noted about some exploration going on as started Franco-Nevada’s claim boundary at Palmarejo just conceptually when considerably can we see some production from that area if we plan to? Don or Frank you want to handle that.
I will take first part and then Frank can jump in.
This is La Curra which we acquired from Tara Gold here earlier this year.
The extension of the Guadalupe system prior work on that really there were some small productions from historic mines.
We really need to kind of reinvest that whole thing and I think from what we see right now we feel that the exploration that had been done subsequent to that really missed the main target so that’s our premise and that’s where we are going to go after.
So next year will be an important year for that.
We need to obtain premise and things like that but we are fair ways away to be able to state a reserve and production profile from now on.
I mean Don just defined pretty much the timeline there.
We will be real busy working on that next year and we will see how it models up on the timeline.
Chris it made just a fine point behind that.
Las Animas is the southern end of Guadalupe drilling there has been very positive in terms of defining an open pit reserve which extends on to this La Curra piece of ground.
We think about Las Animas as an open pit contributor to Palmarejo in the future.
Conceptually that would come into play on the yields of when the existing Palmarejo open pit would be begin to decline and hopefully we will have Las Animas there to pick up the slack on the open pit side of the mine plant.
And then roughly can you remind us how many (inaudible) open that you have? Right now to go in to fairly 2016 I think but as we go through the budget cycle and get all the recent drill data into model and work on our updated mine plans will be looking at that but I think for now that’s sort of where we have ourselves focused as far as declining contribution from the open pit which is a lot longer now that what in the past.
I think we have been saying and what the expectation had been.
Okay that's great.
And just lastly in the press release you also pointed out some anecdotal evidence is increasing or improving demand from the industrial side with respect to total demand can you just elaborate a bit on that what you are seeing? Yeah.
Especially on the Chinese side ethylene oxide has been an area where we have seen an uptick in industrial demand jewelry demand especially in India is another area that although I guess it for technically outside of the industrial box with those tariffs on gold in India it seems that silver imports have benefited from that and we're seeing more jewelry consumption in India than we have in the past.
And your next question comes from Chris Thompson with Raymond James.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question commencing on the industry at the moment the question relates to dividend.
Have you guys talked about it and what sort of I guess performance would you be looking at gives you the confidence of considering tabling the dividend? Chris we think about on a regular basis it’s Peter Mitchell here but certainly in this environment from a metals pricing perspective as well as the growth profile that company has in front of it in terms of immediate opportunity like La Preciosa and others where (inaudible) thinking that preservation and accessing high return opportunities.
The immediate priority for us longer certainly (inaudible) return to capital to shareholders is something that we're very interested in doing.
Certainly after this point kind of the intermediate strategy around that has been the stock buyback considerable benefit capital to up to it and that excluding the most recent quarter.
Okay thank you everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you in the fall to discuss the third quarter.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Ms.
Bridget Freas you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jessica.
Welcome everyone to our third quarter earnings conference call.
I am Bridget Freas Director of Investor Relations.
This call is also being webcast on our website at www.coeur.com where we have posted slides to accompany our remarks.
Telephonic replay of the call will be available on our website through November 21st.
We will be discussing some forward-looking and other preliminary information today and we caution our audience that such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Please review our cautionary statement shown on slide two and review the risk factors including some that are specific to our industry described in our latest annual and quarterly financial reports filed with the U.S.
SEC and Canadian regulators.
We will also be discussing some non-GAAP figures that we believe provide meaningful information to our investors.
The appendices to our slides contain a reconciliation of the non-GAAP information to U.S.
GAAP.
On the call today are Mitchell Krebs President and Chief Executive Officer; Peter Mitchell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Hanagarne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Joe Philip Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer; and Hans Rasmussen Vice President of Exploration.
We’ll get started.
Mitch please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks Bridget.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss our third quarter results.
We’ve come a long way compared to last year’s third quarter.
Let’s take Palmarejo as an example where cash operating costs per ounce have dropped by 26%.
Head grades are higher and more consistent for both silver and gold.
Silver production has increased 5% and gold production has 26% compared to last year’s third quarter.
There is no doubt we’ve made a lot of progress but we must remain focused on three main drivers.
Number one is to efficiently and safely operate our existing assets and to improve on our execution against our short term and long term plans.
Number two is to maximize our net cash flow by reinvesting in our existing assets.
We have several opportunities to increase revenues and decrease cost for minimal capital that we are pursuing.
Number three is to expand our reserves and resources at our operations this maximizes operating flexibility and is the most cost effective way to grow the net asset value of our company.
During the third quarter our silver production was down 9% from the second quarter mostly due to lower ounces produced at Rochester.
Our gold production was up about 5% mainly because of a very strong quarter from Kensington.
At Rochester we crushed blazed our plans number of tons on pads during the third quarter but leaching of this material did not begin until October 1.
As a result we are anticipating a large number of silver and gold ounces to be recovered in the fourth quarter and be very well positioned heading into 2014.
Kensington had a great quarter as we had expected.
Gold production increased 25% and cash operating costs per ounce dropped 11% and $988 an ounce compared to the second quarter.
Overall our cash operating costs for silver ounce pumped up in the third quarter as a result of the lower production ounces at Rochester but our year-to-date cash costs for silver ounce was $9.66 give us comfort that we should end the year solidly within our guidance range of $9.50 to $10.50 for silver ounce.
Average realized prices for silver and gold were down again 8% for silver and 6% for gold compared to the second quarter and they were down 30% and 20% respectively compared to last year’s third quarter.
Our exploration efforts at Palmarejo and Kensington are really paying off.
I keep saying that we have been playing catch up on our drilling.
Since we have increased funding for explorations over the past two years we are now seeing results that give us a much more positive long term view of our operations.
Three quick examples of this.
We announced increase reserves at Rochester during the third quarter of more than 90%.
We also saw some terrific drill results from recent drilling at Rochester at new targets located near the existing pit.
At Palmarejo we are having success and extending the operating life at the main Palmarejo mine both at the surface and underground.
At the same time we are defining and developing resources at a series of other growing deposits located to the South that we expect will become future sources of production.
At Kensington we continue to drill out higher grade ore zones in order to increase production levels decrease costs and increase the mine's net cash flow.
We saw the impact this higher grade material can have on Kensington’s results during the third quarter where our average head grade increased 11% compared to the second quarter.
We are laser focused on maximizing cash flows and on providing attractive returns for our investors.
During the first nine months of the year we have made great strides in identifying and implementing opportunities to enhance revenue from our operations.
We have also managed to reduce operating costs by over $24 million or about 6%.
We have cut expected full year capital expenditures by about 20% and we've seen significant reductions in supplies and materials inventory.
All these efforts are ongoing and will not stop.
We also believe current market conditions provide a unique opportunity for us to selectively pursue new growth opportunities that will enhance our pipeline and improve the overall quality of our portfolio of assets.
Now I'll turn it over to Peter Mitchell to take us through the third quarter financial results.
Thank you Mitch.
Slide six highlights our third quarter financial results.
We sold 4.9 million ounces of silver and 76 466 ounces of gold generating about $201 million in metal sales and $27 million in cash flow from operations during the quarter.
Consolidated production costs were about $132 million in the quarter down 8% compared to the second quarter.
Our G&amp;A expense increased about $1.2 million sequentially with the majority of the increase coming from one-time expenses related to our corporate office relocation to Chicago.
Capital expenditures were about $33 million in the third quarter or 20% higher than the second quarter as we completed expansion projects of Rochester and San Bartolome.
Cash and cash equivalents were about $211 million.
At September 30 2013 the company’s $100 million revolving credit facility remains undrawn.
Among the uses of cash in the third quarter was $15 million for share repurchases.
The table on slide seven shows average realized prices ounces produced and sold and cash operating costs on a per ounce basis.
We are very pleased with the improved performance at Kensington during the quarter.
Palmarejo and San Bartolome also had a strong quarter with Rochester being the slow driver of an increase in cash operating cost to $11.38 per silver ounce.
Based on recent volatility or volatility generally in metals prices we've seen this year Coeur implemented a hedging program covering our fourth quarter and first quarter 2014 production with the goal of preserving all of the upside exposure to silver and gold prices while limiting the downside repurchase put options covering about 20% of our expected silver production and 35% of our expected gold production for the fourth quarter.
We recently purchased put options with similar terms to hedge a portion of our expected first quarter 2014 production as well.
We’ll continue to evaluate our cash flow protection strategy for the balance of 2014.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Frank Hanagarne who will take us through the third quarter operational performance highlights.
Thanks Peter.
Slide 10 lists the third quarter 2013 operational highlights and priorities for all four of our primary mines.
Third quarter 2013 production at our Kensington gold mine in Alaska was up 25% from the second quarter and cash operating cost per ounce decreased 11% mainly due to higher grades.
We expect continued strong production in grades at Kensington in the fourth quarter.
Operating performance at our Rochester silver gold mine in Nevada was affected by the completion of several expansion-related projects during the quarter.
We expect significantly increased production at Rochester in the fourth quarter 2013 and in 2014 at lower cash operating cost than the third quarter.
Production at our Palmarejo mine in Mexico resulted in 6% increase in gold production and a 6% drop in silver production over second quarter results.
Recovery rates and cash operating cost improved for the third quarter.
Our San Bartolomé mine in Bolivia had another solid quarter with consistent production in cash operating cost compared to the second quarter.
The mill expansion at San Bartolomé is complete and expected to maintain annual production levels of around 6 million ounces of silver for the next several years.
Turning now to the operating performance details of each of our mines slide 11 shows third quarter 2013 highlights for Palmarejo.
1.9 million silver ounces and 29 893 gold ounces were produced at Palmarejo in the third quarter at cash operating cost of $2.79 per silver ounce a 14% improvement compared to the second quarter.
Process recovery enhancements improved recovery rates for both silver and gold and higher grades are expected for the fourth quarter.
We have decided to temporarily delay completion of construction and commencement of mining in Guadalupe which was initially expected to begin commercial production in early 2014.
We are working towards replacing these ounces with -- cost ounces from other areas at Palmarejo.
By doing so we expect to generate higher operating cash flow at Palmarejo in 2014 than we originally planned.
Turning to slide 12 San Bartolomé generated $29 million in sales in the third quarter down from $49 million in the second quarter as excess inventory right at the start of the quarter raise second quarter metal sales.
Third quarter production was comparable to the second quarter at 1.5 million ounces.
Cash operating cost for silver ounce were $12.80 compared to $12.89 in the second quarter.
Turning to slide 13 third quarter production at Rochester was 595 268 ounces of silver and 4 824 ounces of gold decreases of 29% and 49% respectively compared to the second quarter.
Third quarter production was affected by delays in completion of construction and permitting for the stage three lease pad expansion.
This caused cash operating cost per silver ounce at Rochester to increase to $35.83.
We expect a significant improvement in cash operating cost and production levels in the fourth quarter as the expansion projects are now complete.
Crushing performance has already improved following the addition of metal removal equipment to the crushing plant.
In fact September was a record crushing month at Rochester.
Permits to begin leaching at the extended area of the stage three leach pad will receive on September 30th.
Significant tonnes of fresh material were under leach at the start of the fourth quarter.
We expect relatively quick leach cycles for this material which contribute to a significant increase in produced ounces in the fourth quarter and throughout 2014.
Kensington produced 24 049 ounces of gold in the third quarter a 25% increase from the second quarter.
This contributed to an 11% decrease in cash operating cost to $988 per gold ounce in the third quarter.
Average mill head grade of 0.20 ounces per ton was 11% higher than the second quarter due to processing of higher grades stopes.
I will now turn the call over to Joe Philips to discuss our development efforts.
Thank you Frank and good morning everyone.
Coeur continued to execute on its plan to tailor its capital programs in light of current low metal prices during the third quarter.
As mentioned in previous quarters we have successfully scaled back our capital spend to focus on high return and high priority projects has resulted in a 20% reduction in our forecasted capital spending for the full year.
Still included in our capital programs were the completion of the San Bartolomé process plant expansion and the Rochester crushing and leach pad capacity expansion.
We believe prioritizing opportunities did offer the highest return and shortest payback has enabled us to manage capital spending without any long-term impacts on overall company production or mine life.
Based on recent exploration successes at Palmarejo we believe we will be able to maintain current production levels from existing mining fronts and postpone capital commitments for production extensions on projects such as Guadalupe which we have decided to delay.
We are also pursuing a strategy streamlining the Palmarejo plant and improving metal recoveries over a wider range of ore types and oxidation states.
The feasibility study at our La Preciosa project is moving forward.
We now have more clarity on how the new tax and royalty initiatives in Mexico will likely be approved.
We began evaluating strategies to mitigate these royalties in our preliminary economic assessment by proposing a leasing of principle mobile and process equipment.
We continue to evaluate the impact of this tax legislation and refine strategies to optimize La Preciosa within the framework of the new legislation.
Our goal over coming months will be to continue improving project economics and hopefully make La Preciosa a compelling project in current metal prices.
Significant among our optimization strategies is to reduce the cost of power and water which together represent 28% of our total projected operating costs.
One bring spot in Mexico’s new fiscal reform is it appears to further facilitate access to privatization of power projects.
We feel this may provide an opportunity to reduce our forecast operating cost for the project.
As I mentioned last quarter we are also expanding our understanding of additional identified veins within our current picture.
These veins have the potential to reduce our overall strip ratio and expand minable resources.
Metallurgical testing to optimize recoveries and reduce plant operating cost was also commenced.
And now over to Hans Rasmussen he will report on our exploration activities for the quarter.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning.
During the quarter our primary focus in exploration was in or near our operations.
We had nine drills engaged at Palmarejo Rochester and Kensington with trenching at San Bartolome.
Our primary focus in exploration is to grow resources and assist our operations team in extending life of mine models.
Additionally our exploration crews worked on the La Preciosa feasibility study.
And we reviewed several new opportunities in the Great Basin of Nevada Utah Mexico Peru Chile and Bolivia.
My presentation will highlight the exciting new drill results from Palmarejo Rochester and Kensington.
For your reference we've included a complete list of third quarter drill results in the appendix to this presentation.
As part of our strategy to extend the life of high grade resources we're currently mining at Palmarejo a major focus of our exploration efforts has been around the existing mine.
Slide 20 shows several exploration targets along the 10 kilometer structural zone from the Palmarejo mine in the North to the La Curra zone at the Southern end.
Drilling in the quarter was focused at the Palmarejo surface and underground Guadalupe underground and El Salto surface.
Our second view of the Tucson and Chapotillo pits on slide 21 highlights the results from Hole 93 located on the East side of the pit.
This Hole cut a mineralized north‐south structural zone referred to as Footwall La Prieta Zone.
Slide 22 highlights towards Hole 7 cuts deeper into the Footwall La Prieta structural zone.
These drill results demonstrate the presence of multiple parallel mineralized [fall] zones.
We believe these could call us a depth from a wider single mineralized structural zone with similar grades to those we have mine at our 76 and 108 clavos.
In the fourth quarter 2013 and into early 2014 we’ll test this concept with additional drilling.
If successful this zone has potential to extend the open-pit mine life at Palmarejo.
Turning to slide 23 during the quarter drilling continued underground at Guadalupe and from the surface at El Salto zone.
Drilling also commenced on the southern end of Las Animas to extend known near surface mineralization towards the recently acquired La Curra property.
(inaudible) on the new core holes we believe La Curra has near surface mineralization and topography amenable to future open-pit resource model.
As shown on slide 24 the El Salto zone continues to deliver good results from multiple near surface tax structural zones.
Given their geometry we expect additional drilling in this zone also as potential for a resource that can be open-pit mine.
Now let’s have a look at Rochester starting on slide 25 locate in one of the most mining friendly jurisdictions in the world.
Rochester was another key focus of our exploration team.
An updated reserve estimate was prepared for Rochester removing all restrictions imposed by the former claims dispute.
This update announced September 23 2013 did not include data from the third quarter drilling a stockpiles and in-situ mineralization which are expected to be reflected in a further update as of year-end 2013.
The Limerick zone in-situ drilling has been completed on 21 holes [without say spending] for all except the first two.
Hole 2 on slide 25 demonstrates favorable results from a near surface intercept.
Similarly at Sunflower Ridge near surface results from the first hole are encouraging and drilling is underway on the remainder of the [greater falls] met zone.
Because of the excellent results from both these in-situ targets additional infill drilling will continue into 2014 in an attempt to bring these targets to resource status.
We expect to complete stockpile drilling by the end of 2013.
Now we move forward to north to Alaska in our Kensington gold mine starting on slide 26.
Drilling during the quarter was focused on South Kensington Kensington Main the Ann target and the Jualin area with favorable results from all areas.
Drilling in the Main portion of Kensington both below and above the mining area continues to deliver positive results.
Encouraging results were received from holes 23 24 and 49 for example.
Infill drilling continues to bring these new intercepts into the resource model.
Located south of the Kensington mine in the same structural corridor is the Jualin mine area is shown on slide 27.
Vein number 4 was the focus of drilling this quarter as weather permitted access from surface drill pads.
Consistent with historic mining records high grade mineralized intervals were intersected with the first five holes completed this year.
Based on this high gold grades we believe the Jualin area has potential to provide high grades into the Kensington mill future.
We plan to continue drilling in early 2014.
Looking forward our priority remains to expand the life of mine models at our four operations.
We will update our resource models in the fourth quarter of 2013 and announce updated reserves and resources at year end.
Building life of mine will remain a priority also into 2014.
Additionally for the exploration team given the current opportunity to acquire undervalued mining assets worldwide one of the goals of our exploration efforts will also focus on building a balanced 2014 program consisting of new exploration targets projects and advanced projects.
Thank you.
Mitch? Thanks Hans.
As I said at the beginning of the call we are focused on maximizing our net cash flow maintaining operational consistency and deploying capital where we can get the highest returns for our investors.
We feel we have a solid plan in place to operate efficiently and to generate net cash flow amid the lower prices we are currently experiencing.
Our diverse portfolio of operating assets gives us ample flexibility to adjust in the current environment.
Over the medium and long term we still see more upside to silver and gold prices been downside but we will continue to manage the company in a way that reflects the current reality that protects stockholder value and that strengthens the company for the long term.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today.
Operator we are ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Michael Dudas with Stern Agee.
Agee</strong> Mitch first question when you talk about the Rochester issues with the cost and delays and shifting on production and the Guadalupe decision that you made.
How quickly can we get back to more normalized levels of production and cost that each of those operations and has have any impact on your guidance range that you put forth in September for 2014 production levels in gold and silver? Yeah sure I'll answer that first and then Frank if you have anything to add that I don't touch on feel free.
With respect to Rochester we should see here in the fourth quarter probably if anything the pendulum will swing too far in the direction of lower costs that will be not quite in the normalized range just because of the build up there from what we did in the third quarter.
But then going into 2014 and beyond those more normalized ranges that are reflected in that three-year outlook in terms of production and then costs in the $10 to $15 an ounce range is where we expect to be with Rochester beginning in the first quarter.
So the fourth quarter will be a bit of an anomaly just like third quarter was on the other end of spectrum.
With respect to Guadalupe we don't expect there to be any change in the production guidance range out of Palmarejo it's more of just a decision to swap ounces out from Guadalupe for ounces that we have been able to we think identify this year to our 2013 drilling that actually are lower cost and higher grade and they don't require the [holing] back to the processing facility like the ore at Guadalupe.
So we'll get Guadalupe into a position in 2014 that will allow us to mine that whenever we feel it's an economic decision to do so.
In the mean time we'll focus on these ounces that we've been able to identify in the immediate mine area and keep the production levels consistent with what we've put out in that three year outlook but it’s really a function of having that flexibility due to the exploration activity that we've been engaged in there.
So we're pleased to be able to make that trade-off and we're not going to mine ounces that aren’t economic even if that did mean production would be lower next year from Palmarejo.
We're not going to do things to just hit certain production levels if it doesn’t make economic sense but it’s a sound decision and reflects our discipline around quality of ounces and not necessarily quantity of ounces.
Agee</strong> Thanks.
The only follow-up turn towards the hedging.
So could you maybe elaborate a little bit on the strategy why 17 is it because of how much you are going to pay for these options you mentioned in one of the discussions about the selling calls against etcetera can you give a better sense of this is going to be every quarter where we're going to be seeing this and the level of production you’re predicting is there a magic number or reason why if that number versus other just maybe a bit more information especially when you see a $17 price lag of course protecting it 17 so people maybe a little bit nervous about the silver price but just I wanted to give more clarity on that would be great? Sure Mike it’s Peter.
The choice of 17 you pretty much know that obviously the prices of course vary sharply as you move up and especially on the flip side of option pricing right now given the amount of attention that they've had.
We've picked the number that was close to an aggregate number that would allow us to continue operations the percentage that we've picked to 25% of silver and 35% of gold.
The numbers that we think are summing less than 50% this was sort of a first step into a hedging strategy for us.
And as I mentioned on the call with the focus towards covering off the downside and pretty uncertain metals market and ensuring that the upside remains open for our equity holders.
I can tell you that the reception generally in terms of conversations that we have had has been very positive.
In terms of going forward our plan would be to continue this.
As I mentioned on the call we did similar levels again $17 $1150 not $1200 on the puts on the gold puts.
And this is the strategy we’ll continue to go forward should we make a decision maybe next year to go ahead with La Preciosa for example and given that is significant component of our free cash is going towards funding La Preciosa.
So we would even consider increasing a level of that what coverage to make sure that that free cash flow is protected during a time when we’re vulnerable of construction schedule to get La Preciosa build.
Agee</strong> So I think that makes very good sense I agree with that.
And final question Mitch opportunities for non-core assets sales purchases maybe how the portfolio of some of your minority investments are looking is there any proving or adding that we may anticipate between now and year-end? When you say non-core asset sales I think more about the opportunities that we’re seeing coming across our desk in terms of...
Agee</strong>  Buying sure.
Yeah larger companies that are attempting to get rid of non-core assets.
We are always -- we’re trying to manage a portfolio of assets here and anything we can do to improve the quality of that portfolio we will do and that doesn’t necessarily mean just adding to the portfolio.
We’ve got always be seeking higher quality lower cost in order to move the needle from a share price perspective.
That said we don’t between now and the end of the year have anything that you should be looking to see happen from us on the sales side.
I think if anything we are seeing some fairly distressed situations emerge that one or two look pretty interesting to us in terms of price that would be paid and value that could be generated from being opportunistic in what continues to be a challenging capital market but in terms of proving probably not likely to see anything between now and the end of the year.
Agee</strong> Excellent.
Thanks for your thoughts gentlemen.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Lichtenheldt with Dundee Capital Market.
Just I guess to start congratulations on a good quarter at Kensington good to see the cost there come down.
And so with respect to that do you expect the grade that you achieved in the third quarter to be repeated going forward for the next two quarters?  Yes Chris this is Frank.
We are projecting good grades in the fourth quarter and of course in the process modeling up next year and that is always our target but we have enjoyed some very good grades compared some of the prior quarters this year.
Okay.
So it’s fair to say the grades are going to be sustained at this high level? I would say that’s a fair assumption yeah.
And what are your expectations for recoveries at the levels? Again I think it’s just a bit in the third quarter should expect slightly lower recoveries when grades are higher? No I would not look at that our average I believe overtimes has been about 96% and you can count on that continuing in the future.
Okay secondly just looking what you said about Guadalupe was Guadalupe in this year monitoring that you released recently? It was yes.
It was okay.
So I think you said next year any of the ounces that come up from Guadalupe would be made up is that true for later years or will there be potentially bit of a reduction in production estimates? Some of that is going to be a function at the modeling work they were doing right now to incorporate all of the 2013 drilling data but our expectation is that production level in that three outlooks that we put out would remain the same just the composition will change from Guadalupe to some of these more near mine ounces.
Okay.
That is great thanks.
And then just lastly looking at the production this year so far at Rochester obviously you’ve pointed out fourth quarter is going to be better and would have to be substantially better is there anyway you could just provide us a little bit more clarity on maybe how many tons were stocked early in the quarter and sort of what grade and recovery you might be expecting to how get to that number? Just help us to understand how that large production will be achieved? Yeah Frank can take that.
Yeah.
Chris while we were wrapping up that buttress project on Stage III in the third quarter.
We can say this the majority of the ore that was mined and crushed was delivered place behind this buttress's construction was taking place and currently we have in a neighborhood of 1.9 million tons of ore at a average grade of about 0.51 0.52 ounces per ton silver going behind that buttress.
Until we have the construction wrapped up and then receive the necessary permit authorizations from the state of Nevada we were unable to begin leaching on that.
So you have got that sitting in place and commence leaching of that material has now commenced.
And then keep in mind that we have other production coming the residual ounces from other parts of the Stage III pad we're still producing significant ounces from Stage II and also Stage IV.
So as we have that as a good starting point for the fourth quarter we continue to improve our mining and crushing rates and we're still delivering at a high rate out of those pads with plans late to get that material under leach right through the end of the year.
And as more or less assess the stage for a good fourth quarter and a strong start to next year.
Okay that's helpful.
I mean in our model our forecast has typically been achieved sort of a quarter of the life-of-mine recovery within the first three months of having it in stock just based on your leach cycle.
Is that a fair assumption or is this going to be a lot better materially just stock now in terms of leaching recovery in the early months? I think your figures are ballpark but we have the advantage of most of this material that I am talking about has been placed on top line the ore thicknesses while the volumes of ore are quite large the depth liner and seeing that report through the middle of growth plan is proportionately a lot less than other parts of that pad.
So we're expecting very rapid response in the lease cycle which is pretty close to what you’re talking about.
Okay.
Yeah maybe we could circle back growth line just because on our math having to see significantly more tons stocked in the fourth quarter versus the 2 million that you discussed something in the order of 8 or 10 million ton.
So maybe if we could get just circle back to understand why how you’re getting to that production level would be helpful? Be happy too.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Thompson with Raymond James.
Hi good morning guys.
Congratulations on the good quarter.
I think most of my questions eventually been answered by Chris there so I just wanted to I guess ask some particulars relating to Rochester and the cycle time maybe we can sort of -- I'll give you a call and we can discuss this offline.
I would be there.
Hi Chris sure.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Trevor Turnbull with Scotiabank.
Yeah.
Just again talking a little bit about Palmarejo and the guidance not needing to change for some of the future years.
You’re saying that the ounces that you’d originally slated to come out of the Guadalupe underground can be source out of Palmarejo little closer to the infrastructure.
Can you give us a sense of kind of what your upside is on capacity there in terms of been able to bring tons out from underground or from the open pit at Palmarejo.
I know that the underground it look like you had a fair bit more tons coming out of the underground in Q3 relative to prior periods.
Does that still have room to grow or is that kind of to steady state for Palmarejo underground? Yeah.
Trevor what you are seeing there in the third quarter is really as managing of the whole mine process and maximizing grade that can be delivered to the mill but our capacity to mine underground is still on a range between 2 000-2 500 tons per day and then anywhere from upto 6 000 to 6 500 tons per day in the open pit.
So in a quarter where you see those number shift a little bit off those kind of benchmarks it’s us trying to control costs and manage our grade being delivered to the process facilities.
But capacity of what we can do out there has not changed.
And how much throughput can the mill do? It’s good normally for 6 000 tons a day 500 ton per day range.
Okay.
And then kind of with the respect to Guadalupe and the decision to differ was some of that potentially related to the new mining legislation in the fact that royalties have materially kicked up there going forward in Mexico?  Well Palmarejo is we’re lucky to have such a world class asset where we can where we have some flexibility.
And I would say that decision was more just a pure economical one.
Guadalupe has developed over the last couple of years with the higher price deck and running the economics of Guadalupe at current prices it loses money.
So for us it became then a pretty easy decision to focusing on what has exploration been able to give us to offset those ounces and with the added benefit of reduced capital since we won’t be completing everything at Guadalupe next year that will allow us cut back $15 million or so in capital.
And then the cost the operating cost side there is about $17 million delta between the operating cost profile if we had those Guadalupe ounces in there versus mining closer to infrastructure and higher grade there around the mine.
So kind of a typical tradeoff study and like I said we are lucky to have the flexibility to make those kinds of tradeoffs and decisions and we made it based on solely economics.
Right.
And so I was going to ask along the lines of kind of what silver price which you like to see to revisit but I assume that’s probably the silver price you were using kind of for those studies if you get back to those levels things should you would want to do a tradeoff I guess based on exploration success at Palmarejo but would it be that kind of silver price that we are talking about to revisit?  Yeah.
Mid-20s not too far off from where we are say 25 26 would put us in a position then where we have some interesting scenarios to assess in terms of how much ore from Guadalupe would we want to combine with other ore resources and then we can really get into some [NPV] maximizations analysis and make the right decisions.
Okay.
And then I had a question I guess also with Palmarejo kind of looking at the carrying value on these [guys] the loin share seems to be more on the mineral interest versus the mining property breakdown for Palmarejo.
Has Guadalupe been considered more of a mineral interest because it’s not in production then mining? Yeah.
If the mineral interest piece is really reflective of our view of exploration potential and hopefully Hans was persuasive in enough during his comment that demonstrate to you that if anything and you are confidence on the exploration side that continues to increase and the more we drill but the Guadalupe and I guess when we talk about Guadalupe we need to be careful how would we define that because as you see on those slides there is Guadalupe Norte there is Guadalupe there is a series of deposits there to the south but the immediate Guadalupe underground mine or deposit is not carried in that mineral interest primarily because of all the capital that has gone into development there is carried just as the rest of the main Palmarejo operating area is.
So with respect then to putting out new updating reserves resources at the first of the year and potentially revisiting these carrying values does that mean that this decision of deferral at Guadalupe might not have to really result in any material change or write-downs for Palmarejo? We will obviously go through that exercise in conjunction with our year end.
But to your specific question no it doesn't necessarily mean that in fact it may mean a improvement to the overall value of the project looking at this way again really based on the exploration success that we are at.
Okay.
I appreciate it Mitch.
That's all I had.
Thanks Trevor.
Your next question comes from the line of Ilya Balabanovsky with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
This is Ilya Balabanovsky.
I'm filling in for Jorge Beristain at Deutsche.
Thanks for taking the question.
It's a fairly quick one.
Have you quantified the impact of Mexico's new tax and royalty terms on La Preciosa's net present value at least as it stands under the existing development plan?  Yeah.
Hi it's Mitch here.
Of course we take a look at that but we're very hesitant to put any numbers out at this point until something is actually loss and we can see exactly how things are defined how things are calculated what's included what's excluded what's deductible what's not but we'll continue to follow very closely obviously the progress of that proposed legislation.
And once we have the final details then we can come back with some specifics around the impact but until then I just think it’s pretty mature to throw out numbers.
Understood.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Garrett Nelson with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Hi Garrett.
Most of my questions have been answered but I did want to ask about the funding of La Preciosa if you do choose to move forward construction following completion of the feasibility study and if silver and gold prices are at the levels we've seen recently I am just trying to get a better sense in your financing options there.
Would you consider entering into a royalty agreement to help fund development? Yeah.
I don’t think that would be necessary it’s Peter Garrett.
Given the capital cost is around $350 million we're pretty comfortable with some combination of cash on our balance sheet free cash flow and perhaps modest additional debt to fund mine construction and then capital lease financing for mining equipment but we think we're pretty confident we can do it but our internal resources and perhaps small debt increment to fund capital cost for La Preciosa.
Okay.
And then how much revolver capacity do you have? $100 million it’s undrawn.
Okay.
And then I want to ask about the share repurchases how much capacity remains on your existing authorization on the $50 million? We're about halfway through it right now.
So it was $100 million program $50 million basically remains.
Okay.
And that’s all I have.
Thank you.
Thanks Garrett.
Your next question comes from the line of (inaudible) with GMP Securities.
Hi guys thanks for taking the question really just a quick one and it relates to a comment you mentioned earlier on the call that was interesting regarding M&amp;A I think you mentioned you are seeing some fairly distressed situations emerge that could look interesting in terms of value.
And I guess I am just wondering if you could maybe elaborate from a high level what it is you are seeing is this on the gold side the silver side maybe regional and from your perspective are you more inclined to do something bigger that requires financing or are you thinking more in terms of a smaller deals? Yeah.
I think it’s fair to say that you look across the spectrum and for different reasons you see we’re seeing more opportunities across that spectrum.
The early stage exploration companies who have sort of hit a wall financially has given us a fairly steady flow of new earlier stage.
And I think Hans mentioned the locations of some of those.
And I think we do over the last few years we've been fairly heavy on the ground field exploration and fairly light on the earlier stage.
And there are some opportunities I think that are interesting enough for us to bring in and balance out that mix a little bit and take advantage of some of these situations on the early stage.
We are also seeing then a pretty steady flow of what I’d call late-stage development companies that have a resource maybe have a PEA but no real pathway to seeing that asset in the production.
And there it’s really for us has to be the right jurisdiction and has to have the right return criteria and has to be straight forward and clean enough to be an asset that’s not going to add to the risk profile of the company.
And those I think is more of those in the gold side than seen or primary gold than primary silver but I think that’s probably just a function of the fact that there is more primary gold mines or projects than there are primary silver projects.
And then I think the third bucket we are seeing is some of these non-core producing assets that larger companies are seeking to dispose off and those kind of run the game and it themes in terms of jurisdictions and cost profile and stage of asset but and they are typically not the for good reason they are being shopped because they are not the best assets.
And so I would say the quality of those producing assets seem to be available are a little lacking from our perspective.
But there is a lot to look at that’s for sure.
We are being very selective and very mindful of where and how certain situations can fit into our overall portfolio.
We were mindful of for example La Preciosa and the timing of La Preciosa and we don’t want to stack ourselves up with a bunch of capital obligations and development projects that are all on the same timetable we need to allocate things across a pipeline timing wise so that sequentially we have a good steady balanced mix so I don’t know if those comments help but that’s what we are seeing.
Yeah I appreciate that is very helpful thanks.
There are no further questions.
I would now like to turn back over to Ms.
Bridget Freas for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again in early 2014 to discuss the fourth quarter.
Thanks everybody.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Valarie and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you and I would now like to turn the call over to Bridget Freas Director of Investor Relations.
Bridget you may begin.
Thank you Valarie.
Welcome everyone to our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
I am Bridget Freas Director of Investor Relations.
We have posted slides to accompany our remarks on our website at www.coeur.com.
Please review the cautionary statement on slide two and the risk factors in our 2013 Form 10-K for risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from today’s forward-looking statements.
Joining me are Mitch Krebs; Peter Mitchell; Frank Hanagarne; Joe Philip and dialing in from Palmarejo is Hans Rasmussen.
Mitch.
Thanks Bridget hello everyone and thanks for joining is today.
I know it’s a busy day and busy time here with year-end results.
We’re going to start following a different approach and format for these calls starting with today’s call.
I’ll cover a few key highlights and then we’ll get right into the Q&amp;A we want to make this time as efficient as possible for you guys and don’t want to just sit here and read back to you what you can already reach in the release and in our slides.
So I’ll have about 10 minutes of comments and then we’ll get right to it you can ask anyone here anything you’d like.
Another thing we’ll be doing differently going forward is how we report our costs.
There are four big changes that I want to highlight; one is as you saw in the release we’ll start reporting all in sustaining costs per silver equivalent ounce metric for all of our operations combined.
Now that number of last year was $18.94 for the full year and it actually dropped in the fourth quarter to $16.92 which was about a 12% decline.
The second change is that we’ll report our primary silver mine costs on a cost applicable to sales per silver equivalent ounce.
And then we’ll do the same for our one gold mine Kensington.
So the three primary silver mines in the fourth quarter their cost on that basis were $11.97 and for the full year were $13.81.
And then applying that same methodology to Kensington the cost per ounce were $667 an ounce in the fourth quarter and $890 an ounce for the full year.
Slide eight in the deck shows these metrics for each operation.
The third change is going away from the byproduct calculation on costs to using silver equivalent ounces sold.
We just think that’s a more accurate depiction of the true margins from our operations.
I don’t know about you guys but we spend a lot of time talking with investors about a mine like Palmarejo where our cost on a byproduct basis are $2 and change per ounce and how to get to a margin per ounce from that number whereas doing it on a silver equivalent basis for Palmarejo last year that cost is $13.25.
And that’s a lot easier to tie back then to the true profitability and an accurate metric and measure for each of our operations especially for Palmarejo and for Rochester where gold makes up such a big component of the business.
In the case of Palmarejo that’s almost 50% of the revenue.
So deducting that as a byproduct really distorts things.
And we just think that overall we need to do everything we can as a company to simplify the way we report our company’s results especially for those investors that aren’t as familiar with our industry.
The more generous type of investors I think they often times get scared away from our sector and companies like Coeur when they see these sometimes quirky metrics.
And so we’re trying to make the way we report something that’s easier to explain to people outside of our industry.
And I think it’s important that we’re trying to track those types of investors into our sector.
Another thing we spend a lot of time talking about with investors is Franklin Nevada royalty that applies to 50% of the gold production out of Palmarejo and how that’s handled and where that’s picked up.
And it is confusing because as a minimum obligation there and a lot of you guys know this as well as anybody.
But there is a minimum obligation of 400 000 ounces tied to that royalty and we’ll hit that probably in about 2.5 more years of production out of Palmarejo.
But until then that royalty is treated just like a debt.
It’s on the balance sheet; you will see the outflows associated with in the financing section of the cash flow statement.
So it doesn’t hit our production cost and it is truly an obligation of the entire company.
Once we hit that minimum then it will flip into operating cost at Palmarejo.
But until then it’s treated like I said like a debt.
Now in 2013 we paid Franco about $57 million in total on that royalty.
And if that was in our production cost that would add about $1.73 an ounce on a silver equivalent basis.
So Palmarejo alone that $13 per silver equivalent an ounce number I mentioned will be about $4 an ounce higher and again I think that’s important just for everybody to understand where it is and where it isn’t and why it’s not in our cost right now.
Obviously people kind of adjust for that accordingly.
In slides 12 through 15 then show each of our operations and their historical cost by quarter going back to 2011 on the byproduct way that we have been doing it and then on the silver equivalent methodology going forward.
Starting then with next quarter we will drop the byproduct way of reporting costs.
So I could bring in four layout some of our 2013 and fourth-quarter highlights.
One thing we’re sliding is a little over $15 million worth of metal that shift in the fourth quarter but weren’t picked up in the sales that went to the balance sheet.
So that is something that’s still over here into the first quarter and that’s slightly skewed our fourth quarter revenue.
Slide five outlines the framework that we have been following for over a year now to help us maximize cash flow and reduce cost at our sites and reduce our capital spending as well.
It’s been leading to great results obviously this work is ongoing.
Capital spending is down big time from where we were just a few years ago.
Our guidance for this year is $65 million to $80 million with almost all of that going towards just sustaining and capitalized exploration.
And the results are really starting to bear themselves out.
When you look at our cost per silver equivalent ounce over the last year three of our four operations are down pretty significantly.
Palmerajo by 27% Kensington by 33% Rochester by 6% and San Bartolome was pretty flat.
So we are making some really good progress and like I said those efforts are ongoing.
The next key highlights I want to flag is our exploration program and the increase in reserves and resources we announced on Tuesday.
You probably saw reserves increased by 16% for silver and 12% for gold even after taking into account last year’s production and using lower metals prices.
Now we chose to go with $25 an ounce for silver and $1450 an ounce for gold.
We spend a lot of time thinking about that and we think those reflect reasonable long-term price assumptions.
We did also internally run those same reserves at $20 an ounce for silver and $1250 an ounce for gold and the decline from what we have reported was only about 6% to 8%.
So there wasn’t a lot of sensitivity to running them at lower prices.
We feel comfortable with where we came out in terms of our year-end reserves and resources.
Last year we spent about $34 million in total on exploration.
About 11 or 12 of that was capitalized focused just on reserve conversion work.
And with those dollars we have replaced and added a total of 115 million silver equivalent ounces of just reserves.
And that’s all around existing infrastructure that’s not La Preciosa that’s not anything other than mines where we have existing reserves.
And that’s really good bang for the buck.
That’s about a dime an ounce discovery cost.
And we all know that a lot of that increase came from Rochester and a big chunk of that increase wasn’t necessarily due to drilling activities.
It was due to the removal of some restrictions relating to that claims dispute that we had in place.
But even if you remove all of Rochester’s increase from our companywide increase in reserves on our discovery cost per ounce we are in at about $0.45 an ounce.
And that’s a good metric for us when you look at where producing silver company’s trade between $5 and $10 per silver equivalent an ounce.
It really does highlight the fact that we need to keep allocating money to exploration around our existing mines where we have existing infrastructure and resources because that’s a great return on those dollars.
And slide 17 provides some additional information on our growth in reserves and resources.
Although exploration at our existing mines is our preferred way to grow there are three other paths we are pursuing for growth that I want to highlight quickly.
One is through internal development of existing projects and our main development project as you know is the La Preciosa project in Mexico.
We got that last year when we acquired Orko Silver.
The feasibility studies are moving ahead.
We are still targeting mid-year this year and we are seeing some opportunities to improve the economics compared to the PEA despite the headwinds of higher taxes in Mexico intended below our price environment so we are encouraged there.
We also in terms of growth established core capital late last year.
We made an acquisition of a company called Global Royalty.
And that although a small contributor to the overall business right now it is an attractive component to the business with higher margins the less volatility that comes along with those streams in royalties and we see some opportunities to further grow that business.
We’re targeting more of the $3 million to $30 million kind of new opportunities to expand core capital and it’s really effective when you think about the margins that we see in core capital are over twice the margins that we see in the traditional operating side of the business.
So to the extent that we can continue to grow core capital we think that’s a good thing for the company.
We are actively looking at acquisition opportunities.
We see some good values out there.
some interesting opportunities that come across our desks.
It’s important for us to look at our existing portfolio though and really prioritize opportunities based on the impact that they have on our business.
And for us we’re looking more in terms of anything significant we’re looking at producing current cash flowing opportunities when we can add another operating leg to the table which will provide us with some additional diversification reduce our cost increase our margins hopefully further improve our geopolitical risk profile.
So we’re continuing to actively evaluate opportunities like that.
And one of our highest probably our lowest risk highest new turn opportunities that we have inside our company is Rochester and further expanding that.
And that something that over the next 10 to 20 years is really going to be a cornerstone for the company and a key priority.
Despite having a disappointing end to last year we remain very excited about Rochester.
I do want to take a couple of minutes to talk about Rochester’s performance in 2013 and in the fourth quarter in particular.
The fourth quarter was better than the third quarter but we did not see the level of ounces out of the pads that we were expecting.
But one factor was a delay of getting permission from the state to begin leaching activities in the fourth quarter and that all led to a simply running out of time until the ounces begin to flow out of the new pad.
As part of our year end activities we’ve reviewed and updated our own recovery models.
We do expect to be more accurate going forward on a short term forecasting.
We’ve always been confident in the long term recovery curves at Rochester but heat bleach operations are not an exact science as you guys know.
That said we do feel good about our 2014 plan and guidance for Rochester.
And as we go through the year and as additional ounces will build as more material is crushed stacked and leached which mean production during each quarter this year should be higher than the preceding quarter.
So we look forward to a good year.
And that will really I think help around out our whole portfolio of mines in terms of operating consistently and clicking on all cylinders.
Another operation I want to spend just a couple of minutes on before wrapping up is Palmarejo.
We did make a good decision there late last year to not complete the development and put the underground mine into production there at Guadalupe during 2014 here given lower prices.
It just wasn’t the right economic decision.
And until we move other ounces into the mine plan to offset those ounces from Guadalupe that we’ve decided to remove will reflecting lower expected 2014 production levels at Palmarejo in our guidance.
Based on the drilling that was done in the second half of last year and additional drilling taking place now we’re optimistic that we will more than offset these ounces in areas where we’re already mining particularly in the Tucson‐Chapotillo pit and by extending our underground mining activities in the 108 clavo.
We’re also looking at how we can mine certain higher grade sections of Guadalupe that would be economical at current prices.
So to wrap up 2013 was a transitional year for our sector and for our company.
Over the past two years we’ve been upgrading this company in ways that we believe will lead to the kind of consistency and performance our stockholders demand and deserve.
We’ve been working to instill a new mentality and attitude new processes and systems to improve our execution our planning and that will help us better mitigate and manage risks as an organization.
We’ve been pushing up for greater centralization to ensure more consistency and standardization we’ve implemented more meaningful and powerful incentive programs that reward performance and promote alignment around certain key priorities and objectives throughout all levels of the organization.
And we are now starting to see the result of this work.
Other than Rochester’s fourth quarter we had a really good quarter and we’re off to a really solid start here in 2014.
So as a management team here we’re going to continue to keep our focus on maximizing margins and cash flow and on generating returns on all the investments that we make whether that’s in people exploration new projects expansions or acquisitions.
So thanks again for joining us on the call today.
And we’ll go ahead Dannie and move to any questions that you have.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Michael Dudas.
Hey.
Mitch and everybody good morning and I commend your new outlook from the financials and how you’re thinking about it and I think it’s going to be helpful.
Thanks Mike.
First I guess with Palmarejo continuing your thought about some of the drills results to offset Guadalupe's removal when will we get better sense of that and is it little too early to see that we can find some more ounces going into 2015 given some of the work you done?  And Hans I know is calling in from Palmarejo feel free Hans to chime-in or Frank but we are as we speak updating our resource model and our mine plans to incorporate all that drilling from late last year.
As you know it’s an ongoing process that never really does stop but I do think here in the first half we will have some updated mine plans that will reflect even more drilling here in the early part of this year but we will communicate it and that will give a little more visibility and then as we go into 2015 and see the results of what we all think is a much better more positive more strategic drilling plan at Palmarejo here in 2014.
I think that’s really when we will see some greater visibility in terms of that and be able to communicate it externally in terms of the longer term view for the Palmarejo.
Hans I don’t know if you have anything to add to that from Palmarejo?  Later in the year we will definitely have an update from Palmarejo right now we are looking at the programs and it probably will be the most focused program ever in terms of taking multiple resource models sitting down with multiple groups within Coeur and deciding actually where to drill.
And out of our decisions here which are occurring right now in Palmarejo we are focused on mainly the open pit extending life of the open pit because that’s the most of the tonnes and grades are coming from right now.
And then later we will work on the extending the life of the underground but that’s what I am doing like you said and update will come later in the year.
But the future looks really good right now I am looking at the models and where we are going to drill.
Okay.
I hope that helps Mike.
I appreciate that.
Yes it does.
Second I have two more questions one from La Preciosa can you share some critical path thoughts or what we have been seeing as you get closer to finishing the study midyear is it more from a recovery capital productivity issues and how much of an offset on the tax side is being coupled with the economics?  Joe you want to take that and Peter you want to chime-in on the tax piece after Joe?  Mike this is Joe.
We have been having a lot of fun with the La Preciosa study here in last couple of months.
Everybody has talked a lot about the negative aspects of the new mining royalty but there is actually some very positive things going on as well.
Mexico has opened up the ability to generate electricity and we found some very significant opportunities to save money on our power cost.
We are very pleased with the results of our metallurgical studies and finding some ways to trim down the capital so we are quite excited about it.
And then strictly from a tax perspective the tax does add some additional cost to our existing operation of Palmarejo and also La Preciosa they are measured in 2014 in the sort of $2 million to $3 million range.
And in terms of the impact on La Preciosa we are looking at ways to mitigate the impact cut the tax thing such as operating leases for the mining fleet and other areas to address ways to reduce the impact of the EBITDA tax on La Preciosa and areas that will be more than offset by the benefits which was identified.
Excellent Peter thank you.
And just one final quick question on core capital how do you see it a year from now? Do you anticipate maybe getting more like royalty companies to acquire or do you anticipate you will see some opportunities that you will be acting on to increase the cash flow.
So it sounds like a very interesting concept to turnover the company and of course with returns you should want to kind of make growth pretty quickly? Thanks.
Yes it is interesting and it is a differentiator for us and our company and attractive and complementary business to the traditional mining side.
We are focusing on cash flowing royalties that can have an immediate impact and in a year from now I think this year Mike our free cash flow will be around $10 million out of core capital.
I think it’s easy to see it more than doubled in a year from now in terms of current cash flow.
There are some with the challenging capital markets that we have seen.
Companies looking to obtain funding from core capital through the sale of a royalty or stream we are evaluating those.
It’s not our number one priority but it does give us another arrow in the quiver as we think about ways to expand the business and achieve higher return.
So that’s kind of how we view core capital.
Your next question comes from Chris Lichtenheldt.
Good morning everyone.
I want to say the same.
I like this cash cost and the transparency with respect to the royalty et cetera.
It is all very helpful.
My first question is with respect to Kensington.
Earlier this week you obviously released a significant your reserve included a significant decline in the grade reserve grade for Kensington.
I wondering if you can help us understand a little bit or what you hope to do to offset the lower grades going forward in order to make that mine profitable? Frank you want to take that?  Hi Chris this is Frank the reserve grade that you see in our recently published statement is a reflection of ore that will be delivered to the mill but also the development ore it means the classification as a reserve although at a lower grade development material that has to be moved to get out higher grade material.
So as we -- that overall pull the reserve grade down incrementally year-over-year.
Now that’s what’s encompassed in that reserve grade in the times involved as mine and carry out our mine plans we still target delivery of materials to the mill point of arrays between 0.18 and 0.19 ounces per tonne.
And we have the flexibility to decide depending on actual development rate taken on a day to day basis whether it’s just wasted or it can be stock piled for further future years we have those options and we take full advantage of that as we carry out the operational plan for the mine.
And we actually have developed the capacity or the ability to share -- remove within the process facility a low grade stream of material which really puts us in a position to be able to produce some of that what is lower grade development or coming out of the mine to a sizing step remove low grade material and strip that off to the side and substantially upgrade the grade of material and advances on to its flotation plan.
So we try to keep the mill at 0.18 to 0.19 we’re able to do a few things in the grinding circuit to remove our sub-economic grade material which enhances the grade of what’s in the flotation plan and we have been doing that and doing this late in 2012 we expanded the capacity to do this in 2013 and have further plans to take further advantage of this going forward.
So when we talk about our four buckets of maximizing cash flow and one of them is revenue enhancements this reject circuit is a great example of our revenue enhancement opportunity fair to say? That’s right that’s the criteria very well.
That helps that definitely helps.
So the low grade material in Kensington is in the reserve because you have to mine it anyway is that part of the reason? No we have to remove it to get out other ore but it’s also met the criteria to be considered a reserve.
It is economic.
Okay I’ll leave it out there for now.
And secondly with respect to the Palmarejo reserve is there any Guadalupe in there? Or should we assume you have removed all that now? No it’s in there with reserve prices of 25 and 14.50 as economic and reserve so that sits in the total Palmarejo reserve we just chose not to prioritize those tonnes.
Would you be able to tell us how many tonnes and ounces? I know it’s broken out in the PR that we have filed.
I don’t have numbers here handy we can certainly point you to those.
Yes.
We can dig it out then.
I appreciate that.
Then my last question quickly in Rochester in the third quarter you mentioned part of the issue is the permitting et cetera.
I do recall from the last conference call I think there was a lot stacked at the beginning of Q4 that I guess we have to assume didn't produce as expected.
Can you give us a little color on what the leach cycle actually is there? How much of your recovery you achieve in the first month or three months based on what you previously expected? We have a recovery profile which tells us that over 18 year period our maximum recovery for silver will be 62%.
That relates to that very long time into the near-term and the first year of leaching of crushed material we averaged a 75% recovery rate.
Any incidental run of mine material that we put out early there would recover at about 35%.
That’s in a one year timeframe.
And then it’s about 60 to 90 day cycle that we need to time our movement to threshold our after breakthrough has been achieved and that’s when we know that solutions grades will decline and sort of how we manage things in the near term long-term model actually quarter-to-quarter.
So those are the relative timings that we work out.
How are those different from gold? Gold recovers very very quickly we have an ultimate recovery of goal of 92% I don’t know if it’s placed within probably the first six months of reaching that but we have it under reach.
So it’s nice to get the goal out more rapidly.
Your next question comes from Craig Johnston.
Hi there.
All my questions have been answered.
Thanks.
Okay.
Your next question is from John Bridges.
Just wondered if we could dig a bit deeper into the disconnect at Rochester on the recovery.
You mentioned the delays with permits and that sort of thing but is there something else happening there which is new and affects the outlook for the operation?  No.
John this is Frank.
Its combination of things that we’re on in late last year and we’ve had a number of construction projects underway and where the Q1 had opened the door to begin leaching on fresh ore was completed at the end of the third quarter.
We began leaching the material had been stacked over two to three month prior to that on October 1st that was all related to phase one of the expansion but there was a phase two which included increasing capacity on that leach pad up side hills of the valley that it is nestled in.
You can envision that heap leach pad that area that we filled in with ore and also began leaching during the phase two of the project.
It’s sort of like a horseshoe shape.
We were able to get substantial volume of ore placed in there in the fourth quarter and under leach as we sequence with the environmental permit timing and cycle.
There were some short-term delays in receiving these permits but generally we did pretty well.
It was really just that volume of ore that was placed behind the buttress which ties to what we call the phase one expansion and it’s depth that we have to know to rely on when will it breakthrough and start to report to the process facilities.
That time is a bit longer than we had expected.
Okay.
We did get pretty rapid breakthrough in those thinner sections that went around that horseshoe I am trying to describe.
We did get a nice bang out of that but it was offset by the center of mass for the whole pad which was the central core and it was producing but at lower grades and volumetrically it kind of diminished the effect that we got out of that horseshoe.
Okay.
So you grow much bigger in reserve to go out there so it’s going to keep you busy for few years? Yes.
Thanks a lot guys.
Good luck.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Andrew Kaip.
Look I’ve just got a question on the corporate level last year’s corporate G&amp;A escalate quite rapidly with the move to Chicago and now you’re forecasting somewhere in the $43 million to $48 million range.
How should we expect that to flow should it be slightly higher in the first half of the year and then declining or do you think you’re going to see it stabilize and be pretty constant through the year? Yes Andrew its Peter.
Our anticipation is that’s going to be pretty level loaded through 2014 with that and certainly the impact to drop from 2013 to 2014 relates to having completed the moves at the end of September as well as some other cost but during 2013 some legal expense and consulting expense some related to some trade back of the transaction so that’s completed and move itself as well.
Again to add to that Andrew is 50 year but it without a doubt last year as we saw lot of companies cutting back G&amp;A we were going in the opposite direction but that can do a little bit of a unsettling feeling but I just know we were feel confident and I think as we get here into 2014 we’re seeing the benefits of having of corporate office that’s well designed to support the kind of company that we are.
And for years we did have that and so for lot of unique reasons going in the opposite direction than a lot of companies last year is exactly what we needed to do to just the kind of catch up from an organization standpoint.
And I think if we really want to have the kind of consistent results better planning better execution that we all wan there at this company we need exactly what we have in place now.
And I think when you look at it on a G&amp;A as a percent of revenue and I think now we’re finally in the kind of middle of the pack whereas before I think we were running too lien and without the kind of resources and skills that a company like ours need.
So I think what we’ve done in 2013 has really put us in a position to be the kind of company we want to be going forward.
All right.
And at certain times when you ramp out on infrastructure you probably ramped to a larger capacity than what you think do you think that there are potential savings within your corporate organization that you’ll be able to realize over the next couple of years? Sure.
We put ourselves in a position to be very scalable.
So as we grow G&amp;A doesn’t need to grow around and that’s as part of the plan so I think from that perspective I do see on a relative basis or on a percentage of revenue basis it would decline as we grow as we plan to if we were in a price environment that require us to go the other direction sure we could pull in the horns if we needed to nearly sensitive to cutting into the bone and putting us in a position where moves the ability we want a high efficient and quality company.
And so I think putting in place what we have now and staying we’re going focusing on how we can drive more efficiencies out at the operating level and in the projects and in our planning that’s where the savings is really going to come.
All right thanks very much.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call over to Mitch for closing remarks.
Okay well we appreciate you taking the time again now you’re busy as I think you’ve heard from all of us we’re excited about the year ahead and we’ll remain focused on operating our mine safety and continuing to reduce our cost and delivering on our guidance and the expectations that we set.
We look forward to updating you as our progress advances over the course of the year.
And thanks again for your time this morning.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and my name is Chris and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Bridget Freas Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Chris.
Welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I am Bridget Freas.
We have posted slides to accompany our remarks on our website at coeur.com.
Please review the cautionary statement and the risk factors in our 2013 10-K and first quarter 10-Q for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from today's forward-looking statements.
Joining me are Peter Mitchell; Frank Hanagarne; Joe Philips Hans Rasmussen and dialing in from London is Mitch Krebs.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Bridget.
Hi everybody thanks for dialing in.
I think a key takeaway from our first quarter is that the company achieved its production targets at costs that are tracking below our full year cost guidance.
We are seeing a greater level of consistency from our operating mines which is something we've stressed as a key objective for us.
Another key obviously is to keep that going throughout the rest of the year.
We announced our first quarter production results about a month ago.
On a silver equivalent basis compared to last year's first quarter Palmarejo increased 10% Rochester was up 6% San Bartolome's production was down slightly and Kensington's production was consistent with the first quarter of last year.
I would like to focus on three areas from our first quarter results that we announced last night.
Cost cash flow and liquidity.
I'll start with costs.
Our first quarter all in sustaining costs per silver equivalent ounce were down 4% to $19.12.
Now this is a companywide number which means Kensington is included in that calculation on a silver equivalent basis.
So that's an exclusive all in number for us.
In there is this year in this quarter was $0.75 an ounce related to feasibility study related costs that we incurred during the first quarter.
It also incorporates all of our capital expenditures from the first quarter which totaled $11.9 million.
And we've had some good disclosure in the back of the release and in the 10-Q on how precisely our all in sustaining costs are calculated.
Our cost applicable to sales per silver equivalent ounce at our primary silver mines was $13.25 in the first quarter which is down 6% compared to a year ago and mostly by a 24% reduction over the fourth quarter at Rochester to $12.67 per silver equivalent ounce which is the lowest they’ve seen in more than two years.
Now I will talk about cash flow; despite a 33% lower silver price and a 20% lower gold price we still manage to generate about $50 million of operating cash flow before changes in working capital during the first quarter.
Our capital expenditures dropped off significantly which puts us on a full year run rate for CapEx that is well below our 2014 guidance of $65 million to $80 million.
Palmerajo Kensington and San Bartolome were all cash flow positive during the quarter and the only reason Rochester wasn’t is because its pad inventory increased by $12.4 million during the quarter as we keep building up the amount of material there under leach.
Kensington’s cash flow was its highest in three years during the first quarter.
Now in terms of liquidity we ended the quarter with nearly $320 million of cash and equivalents and short-term investments that puts our net debt at approximately $145 million.
I think our balance sheet is straight forward and flexible with just a conservative level of debt on the balance sheet.
And this flexibility and liquidity allows us to weather future deterioration in prices should that take place.
And it also allows us to be opportunistic should a unique opportunity come along that can strengthen the company’s overall portfolio of assets.
Although we got solid start to the year our share price is down over 20% year-to-date.
We believe the price weakness that we’ve seen has been driven by investors’ concerns in three main areas; and I’d like to just say a couple of things about each.
One is the mine life and profile at Palmarejo and the impact the Franco-Nevada gold stream is having on that mine’s cash flows.
I think the second concern is Rochester’s performance and how is that ramp up going.
And then I think the third one is what are we going to do about La Preciosa; are we going to move ahead on that regardless of economics or are we going to differ or delay that project.
And we’ll have more to say about each of these areas as the year goes on but I do want to hit on each of them for a couple of minutes each.
Let’s start with Palmarejo.
Now costs are trending down there the presentation I gave earlier this week at the European Gold Forum in Zurich broke out Palmarejo’s cost per ton going back I think to the second quarter of last year.
We’ve included that slide with the first quarter cost information in our slide deck there today.
And it shows some really positive trends open pit mining costs have declined about 16% over that period of time down to $1.47 an ounce a ton excuse me.
Underground mining costs have dropped almost 30% down to about $37 a ton.
And our processing costs have declined about 15% at Palmarejo to approximately $23 a ton.
So these are great accomplishments our team is doing a great job.
Obviously it will help the cash flow out of Palmarejo but it also allows us to apply those lower costs in particular to the Guadalupe deposit and take a fresh look at the economics of mining Guadalupe under a more limited development scenario.
And obviously bringing Guadalupe back into Palmarejo’s mine plan in a way that is economically feasible would be a big deal for us.
As you know Guadalupe contains over half of Palmarejo’s total reserves.
We also included a slide in today’s presentation that breaks out the reserves at Palmarejo between open pit and underground and then between put the main Palmarejo mine and Guadalupe so you can get a good sense of what contribution Guadalupe has to the overall reserve profile.
The second thing I would like to point out about Palmarejo and as we think about the future of Palmarejo is the fact that historically open pit operations have been the primary source of mill feed but we make a lot less money from the open pit than we do from our underground operation there.
In fact we get about 90% of our operating margin from the underground.
So by reducing open pit mining rigs the mine we think will be more profitable we think recovery rates will increase with less oxide material being fed into the mill and our costs both processing costs as well as overall mining costs should decline.
And we’ll have more of these details solidified here in still in the second quarter.
And that will be incorporated into a longer term mine plan for Palmarejo that we look forward to sharing with you.
And we will file an updated technical report by the end of the second quarter.
So I think that’s going to address one key area of concern and could be I think a real catalyst for us.
And now as far as Rochester’s performance goes we’re on track there versus our plan so far this year.
Obviously costs are down production is rising; in fact April silver production was Rochester’s highest in almost six years.
Almost 40% of our company’s silver equivalent reserves are at Rochester which we think is a great thing and really sets us up nicely there for the next 20 plus year.
It's obviously in a great jurisdiction and has relatively low capital requirements costs are declining and it’s high ROI projected.
We intend to demonstrate to you all during the rest of the year that Rochester is really [diving in] and is meeting our and it’s maybe even exceeding all of our expectations.
Now on the La Preciosa topic we're beginning pull together now the results that are coming in from all of the feasibility study work that is taken place since last summer.
And it's going to end up being a much more attractive project than what the PEA showed last June.
But it doesn't necessarily mean we feel pressured in fast tracking its construction.
We will only advance La Preciosa when we're confident that we can realize an appropriate return to compensate our stockholders for the risk associated with the major development project like this.
In addition we won’t start building any new mine unless and until we have the construction cost prefunded and on our balance sheet.
We’ve seen that movie play out before where you don't have that and that’s -- that never ends well it seems.
One last comment just to hopefully put a fine point on it.
We're very sensitive to the market appetite right now regarding big CapEx projects that can really stretch a company's resources.
So we'll be taking that on the consideration here as we pull together the results of the feasibility study that regardless of what we do we'll share those results and so everyone will know exactly what we feel we have there at La Preciosa.
It's clear to me and I think to our team that we are operating more effectively at all levels of the organization our planning our execution our safety performance and then the level of coordination and focus on the opportunities we have at our company and the challenges we face.
With a set of operating assets that are performing better and better with a flexible and liquid balance sheet and costs that are clearly declining them.
I'm excited about the value and the certainty the clarity we can provide our stockholders during the remainder of the year.
So with that thanks again for joining us on call today and operator we'd be happy to take questions now.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first quarter comes from the line of John Bridges from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi Mitch everybody.
Thanks for your comments on Palmarejo.
I was just wondering to what extent can you identify resource base there at Palmarejo.
I know you've put what you've got there but what sort of life can you see at the project based on your understanding of the thing at the moment? Yes I'll give you my view John and then Hans maybe you could chime in from an exploration perspective.
But I think our current reserve in the open pit is right now a little less than two years of mine life there.
I know that it sounds alarming in short but when you think about in the context of my comments that we only get about 5% of our operating margin out of the open pit.
How long the open pit does or doesn't go doesn't really move the needle a lot if we're driven primarily by how do we maximize our cash flow and less so by how many ounces do we produce.
When you think about the underground being kind of 2 000 to 2 500 ton per day scenario and with what we have at Palmarejo in reserves what we have at Guadalupe in reserves and then what we have in [M&amp;I] both Palmarejo and Guadalupe.
I can see a very long mine life as a 2 500 ton a day higher grade higher margin underground operation.
With all that said I would say we have only now this year John then I think a really good job of integrating exploration and operations to really coordinate at Palmarejo and prioritize what is it that the mine needs to be successful in the short term and the medium term and in the long term and we have -- I think in the past have sort of only scratched to surface of what is there at Palmarejo and I think now we finally have a much better prioritization as far as where we have drills what we are drilling why we are drilling them in terms of targets.
And Hans maybe you want to share a little bit from there in terms of what we are looking at there some of the targets and maybe why we haven’t drilled them up until this point.
Of course.
This is Hans the focus has been to extend the open pit mine life despite the economics that Mitch just mentioned simply because we want to offset every possibility there before we make any decisions and Q3 2013 release we alluded to some results from a zone at Palmarejo and we continue to see good results from that zone today.
So we focused on that zone in the last month or so that both results will come bear fruit I think in the next couple of months in terms of what we see as a future resource there in the pits.
But as Mitch mentioned we're getting much more joy from underground.
So as we have got two rigs operating into pit exploring the pit we’ve advanced to three rigs now exploring for the future underground resources that would represent something like the clavo 76 or clavo 108 at the mining right now.
And that is our priority for the remainder of the year and those are abundant targets up and down the trend with the seven kilometer trend 70% of the project has not been explored.
So we’ve got a lot of work to do but we’ve got a lot of good targets to continue to explore.
John does that give you what you were looking for?  Yes.
That’s encouraging.
Thanks I will take another look at your slides.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Thompson from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot and good morning Mitch congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
You made it on that’s good to hear.
I was waiting.
Two quick questions.
One on the expansion of San Bartolome can you just comment on that quickly how is it going there?  Yes Frank you want to take that?  Sure.
Hi Chris this is Frank.
We completed the installation of the equipments to raise our throughputs at San Bartolome last year cleaning up a few ancillary parts of that project I mean first quarter of this year.
We basically installed a cone crusher in order to beat the mill of smaller size distribution of rock the crusher is operating well.
And we are seeing increased rates as we go forward everything seems to be working according to plan in my view at this time.
Great.
Just can you remind me again what is the plan as far as throughput at the mine?  We want to maintain a 6 million ounce per year net normal range of silver production per year.
And we’re going to be seeking to be between 4 500 and 5 000 metric tons milling rate per day to achieve that that’s the grades that we have.
Are you at that point now?  Yes we are at here and there.
We’ve just managed and everything comes down to the matching up and being in balance with the mine rate.
And had adds inflows just to that.
We did have a stockpile that we grow up from but we’re seeing good milling rates as required to maintain our plan production.
Great thank you.
Just quickly on Rochester.
Two things I noticed a good grade is that sustainable at that sort of level?  The entire ore body and the reserves that we are working with are pretty consistent graded material for both gold and silver puts much lower on the gold.
We do get into periods where as we’re mining the stockpiles we’re seeing materials coming out our grade will spike up or we’re seeing they’re sustainable over days if not a week type timeframes.
But just across the board it’s a pretty consistent ore body as the grade has been distributed there for the primary amount of silver.
Okay thank you.
And then the final question on Rochester again impressive costs there on the unit cost per ton basis.
What should we be modeling I guess moving forward?  Yes sure.
On a cost per basis we continue to push our ore placement rates up in our day-to-day performance and that means that we're also mining at higher rates.
We're currently mining more in the open pit area that we have in the past shifted that distribution between stockpile and mine just a bit which is favorable to our cost per ton and we'll see that continue throughout the remainder of the year.
Okay all right.
But would you say that the costs that you guys delivered I guess on a per ton basis in Q1 is it realistic to model that on a forward guidance basis?  I think it's more likely that you will see that decrease through the remainder of the year and I'm going to say within the range of about $0.10 per ton.
Okay perfect.
All right guys.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Chris.
See you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Lichtenheldt from Dundee Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
And thanks Mitch for the strategic outlook there that's helpful.
I got a few questions; I wanted to go back to Palmarejo for a minute.
You talked about with looking like the short of reserve life you mentioned Guadalupe.
When we look at the slide that you provided with respect to how much of the reserve Guadalupe accounts for in the underground the grades there that you hold for silver and gold are actually a little bit lower than what you have for the Palmarejo underground.
And even after the cost reductions you mentioned this quarter after paying the royalties there still no free cash flow there.
So when talk about Guadalupe what allows you to contemplate that as a solution to lengthen the reserve life is there some improvement there that you think you could generate cash flow from that area or what would have to change? Yes I think I'll answer that and then Frank maybe you can fill in any gaps that I leave.
But I think looking at that Chris under more I think in my comments I said a more limited development scenario.
So really pulling in a mine plan at Guadalupe that focuses on the higher grade core of those reserves to at least allow for us to justify from an economic perspective a more limited development plan to get in there not sterilizing anything but setting us up so that we can mine some of the higher grade components of Guadalupe doing it at lower cost and then seeing those higher recoveries out of the processing plant.
Those are the key metrics there that we think would lead to a much better outlook than what we were looking at say late last year when we made the decision to defer Guadalupe.
And clearly the royalty is a big piece of where cash flow from Palmarejo goes.
There is no denying that.
And that's a big focus for us is trying to think through how maybe that can be improved later that could be helpful to us to Palmarejo and ultimately to Franco-Nevada.
So that's on our minds and obviously that's stating the obvious that’s a big deal there at Palmarejo and something that we were mindful of and are thinking about as we look at what the future Palmarejo looks like.
And does that higher grade opportunity to get Guadalupe make more sense or in your mind is that something that occurs after the minimum I think 400 000 ounces are delivered to Franco? We are still working on that Chris and that will be a key part of what we will have to talk about later this quarter in terms of timing.
That’s a bit of a -- there’s a few layers to that in terms of the open pit and like Hans was talking about some of the drilling where we are having some good results there in the pit.
If the economics of that surface mine extend then that sort of cracked back into our decision making around the timing of Guadalupe as well and we need to just make our choices around what’s the maximize cash flow and prioritize our efforts that way.
Frank did I leave out anything that junks? No I think you probably did pretty well.
I don’t -- can you comment on that Chris.
Is there more to… I don’t know I think there could be a question relative for now and we’ll look forward to the technical studies to see how it all may play out particularly how many times you have with the higher grade because these grades doesn’t look like potentially enough to pay all the bills once the royalty is paid.
But I’ll move on to my next question at Rochester; what type of balance sheet I think you had some $94 million of inventory (inaudible) in inventory at Rochester primarily I presume.
Can you tell how many ounces that is? Yes.
Peter and frank you guys have that? I do not have the answer to that Chris; we can find that out and certainly respond.
Okay.
I’ll settle back offline.
And then lastly Mitch maybe I’ll just ask you again on La Preciosa you talked about potentially that’s starting to look a little better as the studies come in.
When you say -- is it too early to put some framework around that in terms of pricing? I mean is it something that I $20 silver you could envision being economic or it’s just still work in progress? Let me just say and I’ll take the easy way out on that Chris and say it’s still work in progress.
But we are very reality based there.
I mean it’s a $20 silver price environment right now at best but we used a $25 silver price as you may recall in the PEA last June.
So the work that we’ve been doing on that project has been around how do we make or can we make the La Preciosa economic something less than $25 and closer to current spot prices.
And so that’s been a focus and that’s what we're trying to do and we’ll see where it all shakes out.
But I guess the biggest point I want to make on La Preciosa is to address the concern out there and we would -- we're so committed because we made this acquisition last year of Orko Silver and then we just immediately feel like we have to march forward into the next step up right away which would probably require some additional capital because with $320 million of cash on the balance sheet and at least the PEA CapEx for La Preciosa being 348 million the math doesn’t work.
I can see why people would be concerned about that.
And so I wanted to just try and make it clear to people that we're going to follow this feasibility through to the end but we're going to make a decision that’s based on -- grounded and disciplined I guess the good way of seeing it.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thanks.
That’s it for me.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Vittorioso from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hey Matt.
Yes.
How are you.
Just back to Palmarejo and Franco-Nevada I certainly appreciate the detail around some of the efforts that you are making there to improve cash flow.
I am just curious if the mine were to continue to be cash flow negative after royalties what is your recourse with regard to Franco-Nevada? I'm is that -- I’m just not sure how that agreement works.
Can you just tell them we're not going to continue to operate at the cash negative position? Are you forced to continue to produce until you meet the minimum 400 or the minimum balance there? How would that work? Is there anything in the agreement that allows you to sort of negotiate with Franco-Nevada given the cash negative nature of the mine right now? Yes good question.
I will take it and you guys either Frank or [KC] anybody pull me back if I am going in the wrong direction.
But that 400 000 ounce minimum that is -- it’s essentially corporate obligation and that’s why it’s accounted for the way it is on our balance sheet and essentially almost like a debt.
And so if we stopped mining tomorrow the remaining amount of that minimum obligation which at this point I think is down to about 120 000 ounces that would be owed to Franco-Nevada.
Now if we were -- once we choose through that 120 000 ounces and look beyond that minimum then I think we chose to - if the prices and costs and such were preventing us from showing positive cash flow and we chose to put that mine on care and maintenance that gold stream would just sit there on the asset waiting unit and if the mine would go back into production but there wouldn't be any that wouldn't go anywhere but it would not be there wouldn't be any obligation to pay anything if we weren’t generating any gold production? Yes the only thing that I would add to that Matt it’s Peter would be that as Mitch described we have to choose our way through the minimum ounces 124 000 was the amount remaining at the end of the first quarter.
But not only is that in aggregate obligation there is also actually a 50 000 ounce per year obligation as well that’s tied to that corporate obligation.
Great thanks for that color.
And then just a high level cash flow question; as you mentioned that the CapEx required for La Preciosa and sort of difference between the funds you have now and what would be required for that project and certainly you're desire to head into the project with the funds already on the balance sheet what are your thoughts for raising additional funds for the project? And along with that I mean you had some working capital build in the first quarter what are your high level thoughts for just cash generation from your existing assets for the remainder of the year? Yes I'll start Peter you feel free to chime in too.
But the -- we don't have any appetite or interest right now Matt in further cashing up.
The only way that I think would we would go down that path is if we got some great surprise on the Preciosa capital costs to where it was reduced from that PEA level to a point that not only made it an easier bite but also compel the economic spend or propel the economics to beat.
So positive that it justifies being cashed up to fully fund the capital.
I don't know if that's how likely of a scenario that is but I wouldn't look for us to be tapping into any capital markets throughout the remainder of the year.
In terms of just cash flow from operations and net cash flow at these prices like today's prices our change in cash sort of from 12-31-13 to year end 2014 should be about a push.
A lot of that depends on where we end up on CapEx and how much additional exploration we end up funding above and beyond what we already have budgeted.
That's more of a success based model this year that we'll fund additional exploration if it -- the results justify it.
But I don't know if that gives you some sign for it but that's how we see it and as we sit here today.
No that's helpful.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate that.
Your next question comes from the line of Garrett Nelson from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi Mitch.
Hi everyone.
Hi Garrett.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just want to ask about the higher amortization guidance which you said was mostly due to a revised estimate of the impact of the impairment charge you guys booked in Q4.
This guidance implies a step up in amortization in the final three quarters.
Can we assume this additional amortization will show up in financials at the Palmarejo and Kensington mine's because those are the assets where you took the impairment charges in Q4? Peter you want to take that? we were still kind of calculation base of determining what the appropriate amortization chart was going to be and that’s really the underlying reason as to why that change occurred between the timing of providing our guidance and obviously the information that we released in the first quarter.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Garrett.
Your next question comes from line of the Dave Katz from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning I hope you all are well.
Appreciate the details up to this point.
I want to come back to one of the per ton questions per ounce pardon me.
Questions on cost with regard to Rochester.
So the ore tons placed decreased a fair amount and sequentially heading into 1Q looking out at the rest of the year how do you expect that to drive the per ounce cost? Because it sounded like you guys were saying that the per ounce cost should continue to decrease through the rest of the year.
Did I hear that correctly? Frank or Peter you guys want to take that.
Well in the first quarter the tonnage placed was off a bit from what we had achieved in the fourth quarter of last year.
Plans are to push that back up to higher levels so we will be more ounces out there more or less relatively [counts] in grade for gold and silver.
So on a unit cost basis we should see some improvement there.
Okay then if I look at the cost from the first quarter the production cost applicable to sales and I annualized that.
That was around $428 million on an annualized basis.
But yet your guiding 500 to 530 at Rochester you are indicating that the cost understood the total cost should go up but that leaves -- per ounce cost is moving down.
What is causing the rest of the movement and annualized total cost to go up I guess on the low-end of guidance $25 million per quarter?  That’s a good question and we thought about that in the quarter-end process here in terms of how to handle our cost guidance and whether we should move it down or not.
And I guess we just came up David on the side of the coin that suggest it let’s just leave it as it is.
This company historically has a hard time meeting and beating guidance.
If we get into the second half of the year and that still seems like that’s too high than we can pull it in once we have fewer months of the year left.
I just hate to see us do something now on pulling back guidance or pulling down our cost guidance and then something unforeseen comes along and then we’ve got back into that trap of having to them adjust the guidance again.
And I just want to keep that in achievable level for now and when we have a higher confidence level then we’ll make the necessary adjustments.
Okay understood.
And then we got some reports that the Bolivian President labeled contract between cooperatives and foreign firms as I believe the term use was Anti-National and you said those involved I think the Bolivians involved in signing them should be tried for treason.
Would you have any color on that whether you have any of those types of contracts and in that environment of working [Roderick] how you guys manage to maintain a co-pathetic relationship with the government does not suffer any economic load carried to mine claim?  Yes it’s been an interesting time in Bolivia there are elections this fall I don’t care where you are that drives funny behavior in any country it seems.
But President Morales his administration the private sector the unions and the local cooperatives we’ve all collectively been working on an updated revised mining law for the last three years and that’s getting some final pieces put on and I wouldn’t be surprised if Congress there passes the new mining law here in the next couple of weeks and then ultimately it gets sign into law by the President prior to the elections this fall.
There has been a dust up on some -- as the negotiations on the mining law progressed the cooperatives and the government and this is all in the public domain we’re having some challenging discussions and as topic of validity or legality of old contracts the cooperatives had signed with private companies become a hot topic and they listed a whole bunch of different contracts that cooperatives have signed overtime that they are calling into question.
And there is two that were on that list that are our subsidiary called Manquiri.
And the whole treason thing that you mentioned there was really -- it’s something that they’re focusing on the private companies like us or Manquiri our subsidiary there.
They’re more focused on the people who entered into those contracts from the cooperatives side or from the COMIBOL side which is the state-owned mining company there.
I don’t know what they’re going to come out of that if anything but there was some news about that there has been some discussions out there about it but it doesn’t seem to be a key driver of anything.
I think the bigger issue there is the mining law progress.
And Morales has been very positive on [May Davis] here which historically in that country has led to some -- has been a day of some unpredictable decisions.
He was -- the need to not do any kind of nationalizations ever again in Bolivia.
He seems to have really turn the page on that concept which obviously is a positive for our industry as well as others.
So we continue to just do the same thing that we’ve always done.
I mean we work well with the cooperatives we’ve got great community relations our folks in La Paz are very tied in with federal government and it’s an open dialog in one way I think we feel like we have a glimpse of the table and -- and a fair amount of transparency and we continue to mine there and do well at it.
So but it does take a fair amount of time and effort on the part of a lot of good people.
Understood but with free cash flow from that mine over the last three quarters less than $12 million.
Even if any change to the mining lot doesn’t eventualize or manifest itself from nationalization it would seem that the cushion is relatively thin.
Do you envision a situation that change in the law that would make that mine uneconomic from the point of view of quarter?  I don’t know.
I think there could be I don't want to get into what may or may not be in the law.
But everything I've seen there would be some tweaks and different things including potentially some taxes or royalty rates even.
But it's all -- it's not nailed down and none of it would be material in terms of impact to our cash flow there.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You bet Dave.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Thompson from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
I just got a follow-on question very quickly on Kensington.
So I noticed you’re your mill throughput there was 1 800 ton a day for the quarter.
Again is that sustainable is that -- sort of throughput for the year?  Frank tell me -- fill in if I don't hit this right.
But yes it is in fact maybe a little bit more than that but that's a good run rate.
I think where we'll see a little bit of a pickup is in the average grade I think in the first quarter don’t have it in front me I think it was like a 0.18 ounces per ton.
And I think we'll see a little bit of department mine plan at least calls for a slight uptick in the average grade as we go through the year.
Right.
Would you say that’s sort of more in line with what you guys delivered last year as far as the grade goes?  Well the fourth quarter was certainly a bit of an anomaly in terms of upgrade and I wouldn't benchmark off of the fourth quarter.
But I think in terms of overall grade for the full year of 2014 versus 2013 will be lower this year at that higher tonnage.
And that's like we’ve talked about that's by design.
And we think that ultimately gets us more cash flow and more value out of Kensington.
Frank do you have anything to add to that? No just to circle back to a couple of things.
The answer to that is 1 800 tons per day is sustainable the answer is yes.
In fact we permitted process up to 2 000 tons per day when we average 1 800 -- actually up to very close to that 2 000 ton per day milling rate.
Any time that has to be supported by the mining rate that's sustainable as well.
If you think about this year versus the last year.
This year we're planning stronger production mine plans are oriented around stronger production in the second half of the year.
But at the end of the year we expect to see something quite comparable to what was achieved last year.
Great that's good.
Thanks guys.
No problem Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Lichtenheldt from Dundee Capital Market.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
One quick follow-up on the inventory you have on the leach pad that amounts to $94 million on the balance sheet.
Is that a run rate level now or will that actually accumulate further or should that be coming lower as you sell those ounces? Can you just answer that quickly if you don't mind? Yes certainly it's Peter.
That has certainly a leveling off and we will see a modest drawdown I think over the course of the year.
Okay.
All right good enough.
Thank you.
Sure.
There are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over to Mitch Krebs.
Okay thanks.
We appreciate your interest and I love all the questions just kind of why we're doing this call this way to leave as much time for Q&amp;A I think it's great.
So I appreciate everybody's time.
And I am encouraged by the progress we have made in the first quarter but there is still obviously a lot of work to be done and we are committed to operating consistently and efficiently.
And we look forward to updating you on our progress on these key items over of course of the year.
So thanks again for your time.
Have a good rest of the day.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Connor and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Bridget Freas Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
There are slides available on our website to accompany today’s remarks.
Please review the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our latest 10-K and 10-Q for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made during today’s call.
Joining me are Mitch Krebs; Peter Mitchell; Frank Hanagarne; Joe Philips and Hans Rasmussen.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Bridget.
Good morning everyone thanks for joining us.
You’ll recall we reported our production results on July 8 which were on track with our budgeted levels.
I think our second quarter financial results we put out yesterday provide a lot of evidence of the progress we’re making here at Coeur Mining.
Before we go to Q&amp;A I would like to quickly touch on three areas we’re particularly focused on and those are consistency in our operations cost reductions and cash flow.
On consistency we continue to see more consistent and stable results from all of our operations in the second quarter Palmarejo showed higher grades fewer tons higher recoveries and fewer production ounces with higher cash flow all is planned.
Rochester showed higher production in cash flow as planned San Bartolome showed more consistent production and higher cash flow and Kensington also showed higher production with greater consistency.
On cost reductions we delivered lower year-over-year costs across the board.
All in sustaining costs per silver equivalent ounce were down 6% CapEx declined 44% G&amp;A was down 37% and exploration was down 24%.
A few other points I want to make quickly on our costs it’s important to note that Palmarejo’s second quarter costs contained an annual workforce bonus payment of about $4 million which equates to about $1 per silver equivalent ounce.
So if you back that out of our second quarter results cost would have been around $13 per silver equivalent ounce.
At Rochester our cost applicable sales are obviously impacted by leach pad inventory variations.
If you just look at our cost there on a cash basis before inventory variations our mining plus processing plus G&amp;A cost were down 24% in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
And a Kensington our costs flat but are expected to now decline in the second half of the year to the mid-$900 an ounce range due to higher grades in the mine plant.
And then thirdly on cash flow these lower costs translated in a higher cash flow despite lower silver prices.
Cash flow from operating activities increased $40 million from the first quarter to just over $30 million.
Free cash flow generated by our five producing assets totaled $22.5 million in the second quarter to highest level on a year.
Based on our performance to the first half of the year we reduced our 2014 full year cost guidance and we’ve tightened up our full year production guidance ranges for both silver and gold.
I also think we were able to check off some important priorities since our first quarter earnings call back in early May the 48% increase in Rochester silver production 13% increase in it’s gold production and it’s jump in cash flow in the second quarter.
I think were all important data points that show that the mine is well on its way to a great year.
We also successfully negotiated terms for a new gold stream agreement with Franco-Nevada at our Palmarejo mine in a way that will significantly improve that operations free cash flow going forward.
We provided a re-scoped mine plan for Palmarejo like we said we would.
It reflects our companies priority to maximize cash flow versus maximizing the number of ounces that our produced.
That also reflects the decision we made during the quarter to complete the development of the Guadalupe underground deposit which contains over half of Palmarejo’s total reserves.
The plan we laid out through 2021 includes a portion of our current reserves at both Guadalupe and Palmarejo as well as a select section of high graded inferred material at Guadalupe.
This mine plan forecast lower throughput but higher grades higher recovery rates and lower costs than we’ve achieved at Palmarejo in the last year.
We will further update the mine plan for Palmarejo at year end which will include drilled results from the second half of last year and the first half of this year.
I think we also demonstrated during the quarter our commitment to selectively deploying stockholder capital.
The decision to complete development of the Guadalupe deposit at Palmarejo is a great example of this.
Despite the importance of Guadalupe to Palmarejo’s future we made the call last year to stop that development work when we could not see away to generate an attractive rate of return.
We are only now deploying capital into Guadalupe after we were able to negotiate new terms that we expect will reduce the burden of the Franco-Nevada gold stream there generated a less capital intense development plan for Guadalupe and create a more robust re-scoped mine plan that focuses on selective mining of higher grade material.
Having Franco-Nevada contribute $20 million of their capital to get Guadalupe into production also helps boost returns for our stockholders.
Another good example is our decision we announced last week to defer construction of the La Preciosa silver-gold project in Mexico.
We announced the results of the feasibility study last Wednesday.
Although the project is a better one now compared to the PEA we put out last year we’re in no rush to build a project in a price environment that would allow us to grow production but that wouldn’t result in any value accretion to our stockholders.
At a 10% rate of return based on a $22 silver price and a capital requirement of just over $300 million.
We are comfortable to wait until a point when we are confident that we can realize a higher return for our stockholders and when we have sufficient liquidity in place to fund construction.
We plan to continue limited drilling and some optimization work there with the intent of further improving the projects economics.
Overall our liquidity position remained strong and steady we ended the second quarter with $317 million of cash and equivalence was about the same level that we had at the end of the first quarter.
Net debt was approximately $163 million at June 30.
With the decision to hold off on La Preciosa announced last week we’re now focused on how best to manage this liquidity on our balance sheet.
We recognize that our cash balance as a negative carry associated with it.
We don’t feel pressure to do something just for the sake of doing something.
High liquidity in times of we can volatile silver and gold price is not the worst thing in the world and being well positioned to take advantage of opportunities that may arise to strengthen the company is not such a bad thing either.
In the meantime we continue to evaluate pursue modest size capital investment opportunities with quick paybacks on our existing operations.
So just to wrap up I think we’re doing a very good job of executing on what we’ve said we do so far this year.
We’re meeting and beating our production in cost targets we’ve delivered on some key initiatives during the past three months our operations are performing much more consistently and we’re positioning each of our operating mines for long-term success with a focus on stability and on squeezing as much free cash flow as we can out of each asset and we have the flexibility to take advantage of opportunities that may arise that can strengthen our company and our overall asset portfolio.
With that let’s go ahead and take any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning Mitch and everybody.
I guess my question is just really on La Preciosa with the results from the precision and it’s I guess uneconomic at this silver price juncture would there be any accounting requirement for the fourth quarter to take a write-down on the money spent on that project so far? I know you’re still I think using about a $25 silver price for your cut-off.
So I just wanted to check the sensitivities and if there is going to be kind of triggering factor determined by your accountants there in terms of taking a write-down? Hi there’s certainly no requirement to do so but we review carrying value of our mineral interest assets every quarter and we will review it at the end of the third quarter as well as the fourth quarter and make a determination at that point.
Thanks Peter.
Are you still using $25 an ounce as your cut off price? Well the feasibility itself was done it $22 silver and $1 350 gold.
Our reserves have not been updated since at the end of last year $25 was the price down upon reserves.
Yes thanks.
I was asking about the reserves.
Okay thanks very much.
No problem.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Thompson with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I've just two quick questions just on Rochester could you just provide a little detail on unit costs? I'm really what I'm looking for is cost per ton I guess from a mining perspective and processing perspective and also G&amp;A? Yes Frank? Sure hi Chris this is Frank.
In our open pit mine we are going to range a little above a dollar during the short-term I think over the long-term we’ll be somewhere near $2 per ton as you look forward processing cost will be above around $3.50 a ton of material placed.
Okay.
And the G&amp;A there Frank? G&amp;A is less than a dollar per ton.
Okay all right.
And I guess just moving on to Kensington very quickly we have you I guess processing what about 1 600 unit ton a day I guess metric ton a day at the moment from that facility I know you can do more.
Is there are a plan to increase that once you feel more comfortable I guess with the mine plan.
My sense as you do?   Yes we are currently mining and processing around 1 800 tons per day on average those are imperial time.
And we are pushing to see where we can get is close to 2 000 tons per day.
At the same time we are evaluating and our plans to see if there any opportunities to produce good economics of levels even higher than that but it’s very premature our work in that area right now.
Okay perfect.
Okay guys thanks so much.
Yes no problem Chris.
Your next question comes from the line Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc</strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Mike.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc</strong> It’s about sustaining capital and in terms of pretty good job of using it over the last 12 months.
Level of sustainability to other some rate of return positive capital spending that we make see or has been budgeted yet say for the second half of this year or probably in the case of what you have for 2016? Hi Mike I had a hard time here I heard sustaining capital levels which I think for the full year this year somewhere in the $50 million to $60 million range and we look forward to next year that’s a pretty good number is directionally most of that is obviously underground development at Palmarejo as well as Kensington.
We do now obviously have the Guadalupe development ramping up here in the second half of the year.
And I think we have Franco-Nevada about $8 million in the second half of this year planned to spend on Guadalupe underground what you’re looking for mic.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc</strong> Yes that is my follow-up question would be the with that net cash balance and the decision for La Preciosa if you could remind us what your thoughts are relative to opportunities with some of the minority interest levels that you have and it is the market are you seeing opportunities with the market maybe coming through here now you made that decision and have some chance to working capital work for new source thanks.
Yes good question we have as you mentioned quite a range of holdings and some non-producing companies where the valuations are probably the most attractive relative to the other kind of – other areas on the spectrum from especially on the producing cash flow generating side those seem to be priced almost if there is an assumed transaction and you can’t really see an attractive return on the few properties and few companies that are out there generating ounces and cash flow right now.
The development stage area is where you see more of the 0.5 Peter now and below valuations some distressed companies in terms of their own liquidity positions and those are the situations that seem to come across our debt with more frequency here recently.
We’re very mindful there that building up a big wall of capital requirements as we look ahead is not something that we want to do we’re very mindful of sequencing out any capital requirements in the future but it something came along that could represent a very high rate of return relative to other uses for that capital we would obviously take a real close and hard look at it to see how it could fit into our overall profile.
In the meantime allocating capital and things like Rochester expansion that will be coming up here.
Again on the heals of some permit completion hopefully in the second half of next year.
Every time we build a new leach pad out there in Rochester that’s a high double-digit rate of return and just the terrific use of the capital but if we can find some things externally that – we could slot in that get us some outsize returns we’ll obviously take a look and there are those kinds of opportunities out there.
But some of them our cheap for a good reason but there are others that I think are unique and we take a look at a lot of those kinds of things.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc</strong> Thank you Mitch.
Yes that’s all Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of John Bridges with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning Mitch everybody.
Hi john.
Just wondered La Preciosa's – are there any holding costs that we should factor in going forward? Yes there is about $2 million a year holding cost between land and some minimal community administrative ongoing cost but its right around $2 million a year.
and there is no limit there.
I mean as far as anything we have – we’re not pressed for time in terms of there been some deadline in the next year – two or three or four.
So we can hold that thing together for about $2 million a year going forward.
Okay.
But there's no underground option just to go after the higher grade material that might work? Yes actually we look real hard at that during the feasibility study John and Joe you’re on the phone.
Do you want to comment on that? Yes that’s a common question there are some higher grade zones our ongoing concerns has been the difficult structure and low roughness index that we think would make underground mining costly and maybe dangerous.
Right right.
I didn’t looked that before but then it seems to be the flavor of the month to go under ground and go after the high grade.
And then coming back to your previous answer on the Rochester question dollar a ton mining cost.
That's presumably a mix of the stockpile reclaim and a little bit of mining or is any mining in there at all? John this is Frank it’s a mix of stockpiling we’re mining in our open pit right now.
We resume mining in the open pit earlier this year and at the moment we’re 100% in that open pit will be back into the stockpiles and our plan a little bit later this year.
But that reflects what we anticipate as an average cost for – of our sources.
John just let me to jump in there for one second.
I should have done maybe after Chris raised it I think its important to note that those mining cost per ton you go back to the first part of last year and that number started with the three I mean that was over $3 a ton and so the guys have done a really good job of just being more efficient there and getting those cost per ton down to the levels that we’re talking about today.
So they’ve done a really good job I just wanted to flag that.
Sorry go ahead.
Yes.
That’s amazing.
So the dollar ton estimate is that for mines? I'm not sure is that the mix that you expect?  First of all let me clarify something I referred to a dollar on G&amp;A cost.
I heard dollar on the mining?   No.
We'll be probably closer to between a range of $2 and $50 per ton on the open-pit mine.
Okay.
And then will be between say $375 up to $4.25 per ton for processing.
Okay got it.
Sorry about that.
And then just finally you started the loyalty business year or so ago probably falls within your earlier answer to buying purchase opportunities but just wondered what your thought was with specifics to your royalties and then how the ones that you pull it already are doing?  John its Peter the royalties that we have are doing okay and the portfolio is worked out two of them obviously were within our organization already into were as a result of their global royalty corporation acquisition we did.
In terms of opportunities that we’re seeing they tend to be more on the development side than the cash flowing side but we continue to look and source opportunities and to Mitch's earlier point as we look at opportunities we really have to look at them in contrast to our cost of capital and ensure that new ones will generate significant returns plus over that cost of capital and that’s been a limiting factor some of the opportunities that we had a chance to look at over the first six months or eight months of operation.
Okay got it Peter thanks.
John just add to that I think I don’t think you’ve seen what man delay has put out recently on Serra bio which obviously is a mess that we used to own.
That one’s doing really well and then El Gallo continues to do well down there in Mexico and those are two key components to the portfolio.
But those guys are doing a good job there (indiscernible)  Could you click those onto to us sometimes because I'm not on the name list for that it might be helpful just to say things like that? Yes absolutely we'll do that.
Thanks for that and best of luck with proving up the underground at Guadalupe this year and look forward to seeing what that looks like.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaip with BMO.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Hi Andrew.
I've got a question I noticed that your pre-development/care and maintenance in your P&amp;L has trended upward fairly significantly this year and can you give us – can you give us an indication of what we should be expecting through the remainder of this year it's been? And what those expenditures relate and then maybe looking into 2015 as well? Yes it's almost all in the first half the La Preciosa feasibility study.
There is also a little bit of Argentina and Martha related care and maintenance that is the only piece of that line that will continue into second half of this year and into 2015 and I think that maybe on an annualized basis couple million dollars – at most.
Should we expect La Preciosa care and maintenance to show up in that line item as well?  Yes good point.
I've got people nodding their heads at me.
Andrew that's right.
So that call it $2 million annualized holding cost would be in that line there going forward.
Okay.
And then are we going to see any costs related to Guadalupe development in that line item through the remainder of this year and into 2015.
That will be capitalized.
Okay great.
That's perfect.
Thanks very much.
No problem.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Vittorioso.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning and thanks for taking my question.
I guess just want to dig into the cost guidance a bit more.
Certainly appreciate the reduction in the overall annual cost but you by my simple credit math here.
You’re still anticipating an uptick in the second half of the year.
And I’m just trying to understand at which mine should we be modeling higher cost than we saw in the first half or you know is there any meaningful difference between sales and production and you said that Kensington costs are coming down.
So just want to better understand you know where the higher costs in the second half for coming from? Hopefully we'll continue tracking as we have through the first half of the year relative to that guidance.
And we can take another look at that as we go through the second half of the year but I do think where we’ll see higher costs applicable to sales is at Rochester on just a dollar basis given the expected continued ramp-up there in ounces coming off the pad.
I think on a per unit basis there will stay in that kind of $14 ounce range for the full year at Rochester but in terms of just aggregate dollars that will be a contributor and to a certain extent as well San Bartolome again based on higher throughput in the second half we see relative to the first half of the year higher total costs applicable to sales but again pretty flat on a per unit basis.
And you're right Kensington on a unit basis I mentioned we'll see that lower due to the higher grades but as Frank alluded to these higher tonnages that we’re putting through the mill up there we will also see higher dollar spend to go along with that but again on a lower cost per unit driven by that grade.
Okay that’s helpful.
So at Rochester then just so I – I’m clear on my own model here.
I think production guidance about 4 100 to 4 400 ounces there.
If sales expected to be meaningfully different from that production guidance and at this point being halfway through the year do you see any visibility either to hitting maybe the higher end of that target? Thanks.
Yes.
Our sales and production should be the same there at Rochester.
In terms of our ability to hit the high end of the range Rochester I'm looking at Frank and sort of smiling but I’d like to think that we could you know obviously we’ll see how the second half goes but if we keep on track with our internal budget we should be closer to high-end and low end on Rochester.
Okay thanks again.
May I add a comment to that.
We’re comfortable in the range of guidance that we provided but we’re currently executing mine plan this year that as I said before we're back in the open-pit and we're targeting better gold rates there.
And we are seeing that start to flow through very nicely and you might have noted.
We will change on the gold guidance there as well Matt.
Great thanks Frank.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Graf with Cowen.
You’re line is open.
Thanks guys.
Just getting back to the grade and throughput at Kensington there.
I think prior numbers I had lower throughput although I did have a grade increasing maybe you could give us a little more color on how that how that's going to balance if you guys what's the path to you know averaging 2 000 tons today and a full quarter basis and then what is the fully diluted head grade that you guys can maintain you know on that – with that throughput? I think the second quarter Kensington Adam it was around 1 800 tons a day.
There is some upside to that although I think maintaining 2 000 a day on a sustained basis is not likely but balancing between 1 800 and 2 000 throughout the second half of the year is what we expect to see.
And on the grade side I think first quarter was 0.17 ounces per ton second quarter was 0.18 ounces.
We will see some improvement there not a quantum leap but I think to get to 0.2 ish level in the back half of the year would get us to where we are expecting to see in terms ounces and costs on a unit basis.
And I would add to Adam that the target to the end of the year is 0.18.
So we’re basically executing according to our plans at this point.
We're pushing the tonnages up and trying to maintain higher average daily rates at all times.
But those are mine grades and there's a feature that were employing in the mill that helps us increase the grade of material as actually fed into the flotation circuit.
We get – from this math of the [indiscernible] we where from 10% to 15% additional grade going into the actual recovery circuit.
And we’ve been doing that for quite sometime.
So it’s not just that 0.18 what’s going on there.
And then just for clarity the throughput the tons per day that we're talking about that is on a calendar – it is not on a operating quarter day that's on a calendar days.
So you are counting with everyday of the year not just the operating days that the mill is running?  That’s correct.
Okay.
I just want to make sure we're all on the same page thank you guys for the color I appreciate it.
Thanks Adam.
Your next question comes from the line of David Barilla with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi guys how you are doing? Hi.
Just quick question on Rochester.
It's quite a lot of volatility in terms of the amount of tons that you put on the pad.
I'm just wondering what is the reason behind that and how should we look at that going forward? Can you repeat it? Yes I couldn’t hear it.
Volatility in terms of tons going out to the pad into that…  Well we’re seeing very little volatility now which is one of the great achievements we’ve been able to accomplish over the last – this year and going back into last year being very stable mining supplier board to our crushing plants and performing very well here with our crushing and delivering a very consistent tonnage and grade of material out to the pads.
So in my view there is very little volatility in that and then we’ve achieved that we’re trying to find ways to optimize that somewhat taking advantage of short-term increases of volume.
And so on…  So you are referring on that $3.3 million you got what you are thinking about sustaining going forward.
$3.3 million for the quarter.
Yes.
Yes I think in 2013 we did 12.5 million tons this year we should be somewhere around 14 million tons for the full year and that’s a key driver then as we look out over the coming years as to eventually get that up to its close to 20 million tons per year as we can and then that’s point at which we see Rochester really becoming our largest asset in terms of ounces produced both silver and gold and cash flows well that’s kind of the direction we’re trying to go and obviously the permitting that we’re advancing on is part of that process to ultimately get up to those kind of crushing rates.
All right thanks a lot guys.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaip with BMO.
Your line is open.
Sorry about that.
Mitch I’ve got one more question just on your G&amp;A extra stock-based compensation year your corporate costs have come down quite aggressively Q over Q.
And I’m wondering what should we be the forecasting on a go forward run rate for your corporate overhead? Yes second quarter is a pretty good run rate for quarters going forward.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
Yes.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the presenters.
Okay thanks for taking the time to dial in today.
We are encouraged by the progress we’ve made in the first half of the year.
We look forward to speaking with you again either at our Investor Days in October in New York and Toronto or at the very least November to discuss the third quarter results.
So thanks again.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Shawn I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Director of Investor Relations Ms.
Bridget Freas.
You may begin your conference.
Welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
There are slides available on our website to accompany today’s remarks.
Please review the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our latest 10-K and 10-Q for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward looking statements made during today’s call.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Bridget.
Good morning everyone thanks for making the time during a busy reporting day.
We reported solid third quarter operating results back on October 6th in that release we reiterated our full year silver production guidance and we raised our full year gold production guidance due to the solid year our Rochester mine out in Nevada is having.
I’d like to quickly mention a few of the highlights from our third quarter results we released yesterday.
We’ve now reduced our full year operating cost guidance by about $40 million compared to where we started the year our all in sustaining costs per ounce dropped by over $1 an ounce compared to the second quarter.
And with less than eight weeks left in the year we’re confident that Rochester is on track to deliver double-digit increases in both silver and gold production for 2014 at materially lower unit cost compared to last year.
As many of you will recall Rochester was a big question mark entering this year and with each passing quarter I think we’re putting that question to rest.
The development of the Guadalupe deposit at Palmarejo is advancing well ahead of schedule which represents the beginning of a higher grade future at that operation.
Coming into 2014 that future was also a big question mark.
We expect to be mining 500 tons per day on average from Guadalupe in December and we ramp that up to about 1 500 tons per day in the third quarter of next year.
Cost at Kensington declined to $937 an ounce like we said they would during the second of half of the year due to higher grade ore in the mine plan.
They were actually below $900 an ounce when you back up the one time inventory adjustment.
Also at Kensington during the quarter we announced new high grade structures containing mineralization with grades well in excess of the current reserve grade of 0.15 ounces per ton.
The addition of this new material at Jualin and in Zones 10 and 20 located in the main Kensington mine is expected to lead to unit cost declines and cash flow increases there.
We will incorporate this material into an updated mine plan and provide it to you during the first quarter next year.
Our cash balance declined by $21 million during the quarter to $295 million it declined because we spent $12.4 million to repurchase a portion of our outstanding 7.875% notes at a discount to par and because we acquired two royalties during the quarter for a total of $13.8 million.
Without these two units we were net cash flow positive in the quarter.
Also G&amp;A cost for the quarter dropped significantly again this time by 9% after being down 32% in the second quarter to $8.5 million.
We held two investor days in early October many of you on this call attended or hopefully listened to the webcast or reviewed the materials that are available on our website.
I want to take a few minutes to highlight what we feel were the main takeaways from those two days because they do a good job I think of reflecting where we’re trying to go with the company and how we’re trying to get there.
The first is that three of our four mines have unique high return expansion opportunities that we’re currently pursuing.
We’ll use some of our existing liquidity to fund those initiatives which we expect will drive cost down and help to make our company more durable and resilient at lower prices and those opportunities exist at Rochester at Palmarejo and at Kensington.
So first at Rochester we’ve put a lot in to getting Rochester on solid footing over the last couple of years.
And I mentioned a couple of minutes ago what 2014 is shaping up to look like and looking ahead to next year we anticipate Rochester increasing its silver and gold production by double-digits again and lowering its unit cost by double-digits again due to higher crushing rates greater efficiencies and higher grades.
If you’re looking at the slides we have posted you should check out the cost per ton information on slide 13 for Rochester to get a better sense of the progress we’ve made there.
Looking into 2015 we also expect to receive permits during the second half of the year that will allow us to expand leach pad capacity yet again in 2016 so we can extend Rochester’s growing production and free cash flow profile.
Now turning to Palmarejo as we’ve talked about before we are transitioning from a mine there that was historically focused on quantity of ounces produced to one that is focused on quality ounces and on maximizing free cash flow.
We anticipate that open pit production will end in mid-2015 and that’s a process that’s already underway and we expect to complete underground production from the 76 and 108 Clavos at Palmarejo that we’ve been mining since the mine started in early 2016.
We’ve reduced the headcount there since the beginning of the year by 75 people or over 8%.
Without a doubt the future of Palmarejo lies to the South where development of the Guadalupe deposit is well ahead of schedule.
Guadalupe contains a large reserve and resource and will be the source of much higher grade feed back to the Palmarejo processing plant going forward.
It contains a total of 10.5 million tons of reserves and M&amp;I resources and an additional 4 million tons of inferred resources.
And the mine plan we provided in July includes less than 30% of that material and reflects the average grades from Guadalupe that are expected to be 25% higher for silver and over twice the average gold grade compared to what we are seeing currently in 2014.
That same July plan showed us producing about 1 500 tons a day from Guadalupe by next September.
We estimate the development cost in 2015 to achieve this production level will be in the $10 million to $15 million range and that’s on top of the $10 million or so that we expect to spend here in 2014 on Guadalupe development.
And don’t forget the Franco-Nevada is funding $22 million of Guadalupe’s development cost as part of the recently renegotiated gold stream that closed early in the third quarter.
We’re currently drilling some of the higher grade inferred resources at Guadalupe to bring this material into reserves and we’re actively pursuing ways we can expand and extending mining at Guadalupe beyond the initial plan we provided back in July.
And we expect to have more to say about this in the first quarter.
And the goal is to increase the production and cash flow profile coming from Guadalupe’s higher grade or over longer period of time while we work to advance other high grade underground structures located near Guadalupe.
The best example of this is the Independencia structure located just to the North of Guadalupe where we are having very good results.
We expect to have an initial resource at Independencia year end and anticipate expanding the size of Independencia during 2015.
And then at Kensington we are drilling and developing those higher grade structures I mentioned earlier and getting them into an updated mine plan.
We expect drilling next year will further expand the size of this higher grade mineralization and allow us to really reshape what the future looks like at Kensington.
The third quarter served as another reminder of the impact a slightly higher head grade has on Kensington unit cost and cash flow.
The second big takeaway from our investor days is the fact that the initiatives that I just walked through at those three mines are expected to significantly reduce our cost profile over the next few years.
If you look back at last year our all in sustaining cost were around $20 an ounce and we’re targeting a 15% to 20% reduction as we get into 2017 which will dramatically shift this company down the industry cost curve compared to where it has been historically.
The third big takeaway is the fact that we have more than sufficient liquidity to support these strategic priorities and withstand lower silver and gold prices.
At the end of the third quarter we had $295 million of cash and equivalence about half of that cash is year marked to fund these strategic priorities that I mentioned.
And the rest is available for us to provide us with flexibility and with the cash buffer.
As you all know and as we’re obviously aware we carry about $437 million of senior notes on our balance sheet and those have a 2021 maturity and they’re unsecured and very flexible no maintenance covenants.
So we have a long runway there in terms of how to deal with those notes and we’ll seek to de-lever over the coming years especially after 2017 on the back of higher expected free cash flow.
And then the final takeaway from our investor days is we’re really starting to see I think the benefits of the significant amount of organizational change that has taken place here over the past couple of years.
Without a doubt we have greater visibility better planning much better consistency many of you have told us that we have industry leading transparency and disclosure and ISS has validated our leading Corporate Governance by awarding us the highest rating that give companies.
I think a great example of the value of these enhanced capabilities is the process we went through to renegotiate the Palmarejo gold stream agreement with Franco-Nevada.
I have no doubt that we would have never gotten that done if it wasn’t for the people and the planning capabilities that we now have here at Coeur that allowed Franco to get comfortable with the future of Palmarejo and Guadalupe.
Now as we’re all aware silver has dropped over 20% and gold has fallen over 11% since our last quarterly results call three months ago.
$15 silver and $1 150 gold are levels that cause everyone in this sector to carefully think through the implications of these sustained lower prices and reassess priorities.
From our prospective the initiatives I described at Rochester at Palmarejo and at Kensington are expected to position Coeur as a much lower cost Company capable of generating solid free cash flow over long mine lives.
Our challenge and our opportunity is to use our liquidity to accelerate the execution of these strategic priorities in order to push the Company down the cost curve as quickly as we can.
With that we’d be happy to take your questions now.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Matt Vittorioso from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning guys and thanks for taking my question.
I guess just on liquidity and looking into 2015 you talked about you’re marking half of your cash for these internal growth initiatives and initiatives that get you down the cost curve.
I guess as we look out into 2015 at these commodity prices it looks like you will be burning cash can you just talk about how you’re thinking about liquidity cash burn next year and also investing to try to get down the cost curve? Just what are your options to maybe increase liquidity and how you are thinking about that for 2015? Yeah I’ll start Matt and then Peter will chime in or anybody else for that matter.
But I think it’s important to first start up by saying that our cost structure will not stay static in 2015 compare to 2014 because of the fact that we’re saving here with lower prices.
So you’ll see our cost structure come down in 2015.
The – our goal and we’re obviously going through the budget process right now is for our operations just to generate sufficient operating cash flow to cover G&amp;A to cover our interest and to cover most if not all of the sustaining capital.
And then we would be dipping into our cash to funds some of these strategic priorities that will drive good things in terms of our overall cost profile over the long-term.
So we don’t see there would be any need to increase liquidity where it will come from is off the balance sheet and from a lower cost profile and that’s operating cost that’s CapEx that’s non-operating cost to get us to a point where we minimize that cash decline in 2015.
And there will be a similar story in 2016 and then 2017 is when we really start to see the benefits of these initiatives in terms of the lower cost higher margins higher grades and higher free cash flow.
Yes I guess Matt the only – it’s Peter the only thing is that I would add to that are it’s a very dynamic process actually down draft in since over prices into a lesser degree gold prices has been more extreme certainly since the end of the third quarter and our planning process is in the levers so we are pulling that Mitch alluded to in his presentation.
That’s an ongoing process and suffice it to say there is a lot of things that we can do to adjust that cost position and really extend our liquidity though this next couple of years is critically important to get to that period where we’re generating significantly more free cash flow.
That’s very helpful.
And understanding that you are going to the budgeting process now but maybe for the benefit of everybody on this call as we think about looking at your silver equivalent production and your cost applicable to sales on that silver equivalent production on a per ounce basis I mean you’ve been running into $14 to $15 an ounce on the cost front I mean is there any sort of big picture target you could provide for the next 12 to 18 months where could those cost per ounce on the cost applicable to sales go I mean what is the opportunity there? Yes on a high level it’s Mitch again production directionally next year on a company wide basis probably won’t be that far off of where we look to be heading for 2014.
In Kensington it will be flattish San Bartolome will be pretty flat we’ve already said how Guadalupe and Palmarejo are transitioning and then Rochester will be higher.
So you kind of net that all together and you won’t see widely different silver equivalent production out of us next year but you will see those costs come down again meaningfully I think there is a slide in there today where we highlighted a few of the different buckets of reductions we’ve made this year that total something like $85 million $86 million.
What we need to do is keep up on those efforts and try and do the same next year.
In terms of capital that’s obviously a big component to the equation next year you won’t see anything that’s widely different than the levels we’re guiding to this year with some of that being just maintenance and some of that being the funding of some of these priorities designed to drive cost down does that help? Yes no that’s very helpful.
And just remind us so what’s the good CapEx number to use for full year ‘14? And then you’re saying it will be similar in ‘15 is it still the sort of $65 million or? Yes the range is $65 million to $80 million and that’s the range.
Okay.
And just one last quick one from me I guess you did buyback some bonds in the quarter obviously you’re looking to conserve some liquidity but given the move-in metals prices those bonds have traded off and would you continue to look at those depending on where they are trading would you continue to potentially repurchase some of those in the open market? Yes it’s Peter again not a precise answer Matt but certainly balancing our needs for liquidity our needs to fund the capital projects that we have in front of us to move our cost position down but being opportunistic on the margin with our bonds such as we demonstrated in the third quarter with the $12 million of bonds we bought back is certainly something that we would entertain going forward as well it just make sense.
We are extremely conscious of the leverage levels that we have currently.
So finding ways to de-lever obviously growing EBITDA but and buying back the bonds from time-to-time is a great opportunity for us frankly.
That’s helpful thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Thompson from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hi guys thanks for the call.
I’ve got a bunch of questions here we’ll start with the Palmarejo I wonder if you can just comment very quickly on the underground grades I think at Palmarejo deposit I think we’ve got a pretty good read on the Guadalupe but for the underground grades for next year what should we be modeling? Frank you want to take that? Sure hi Chris this is Frank.
We are underground looking at the grades that should range between 170 and 190 grams per ton underground next year.
Okay.
And on the gold? We’ll be in the range of 2 to 3 grams per ton.
Okay perfect alright.
Non recoveries at the moment I noticed that you’ve achieved 83% recoveries on the silver for the quarter is this sustainable on an ongoing basis that amount? Yes it’s actually not only sustainable but we’re doing things that help to see improvements ahead still although it’s getting those incremental improvements become a bit smaller through our efforts going forward but it is sustainable Chris.
I think we’ve talked before the flowsheets so that we can campaign different ore types through haven’t had a chance to test that yet but we’re ready to do so as soon as we encounter some additional oxide material little later in the year and into next year.
We’ve expanded the Merrill Crowe circuit giving us the capacity to treat a lot more solution and refinery and we have converted a carbon circuit over into just a standard agitation lead circuit.
All these things in aggregate have added up to the kind of recovery increases that we’re seeing right now and still looking to improve upon that further as we go ahead.
Great Frank thanks.
Just maybe onto Rochester just a read I guess in the near-term obviously you’re enjoying obviously lowering unit cost based on sort of economic scale here.
Can we expect cost to continue to track lower than $15 per ounce silver equivalent? That’s certainly the goal it’s Mitch Chris for exactly the reason you’re talking about a lot of what we did – have done in 2014 we’ve only really seen the benefit of in the back half of the year.
So extrapolating that into a full year across higher crushing rate we can expect to see those cost on a per silver equivalent ounce basis come down further next year.
In fact I think we’re looking at something greater than a double-digit decline there next year.
Great.
Okay and then finally at Kensington obviously the big question for me at the moment is those grades good grades I guess in the Q3 are we going to see a continuation of that next year? Well this Frank Chris what we saw in the third quarter was according to the mine plan that we’re executing this year.
There will be periods next year with the same thing will fall out I don’t have all those plans finalize at this point.
But we have opportunities and where a lot of that’s coming from is that narrow drain system that we developed and started to mine in this Raven Zone which is going to be similar to what we would do at Jualin in the future.
But there is some good high grade material in there and it’s a good offset to some of the ore grades from the main area of the mine where it’s in the upper-teens per ounce type grades.
In the month of August in that quarter we really benefited from that Raven just through the mining cycle that was taking place and you can see the kind of results that come out of that.
So we’re trying to maintain that Raven and grow that further into next year and then expand on it little further out with what we might do with Jualin.
Great okay.
And then finally at Kensington I know we spoke in the past about potential for maintaining or even increasing that I guess in those throughputs have you got any comments on that? Yes we have the capacity to mill into the 1 900 ton per day range.
We do saw quite often but we’ll moderate that throughput up and down based on grade which we wouldn’t manage that we wouldn’t try to mill at that rate we get into these high grade availability to higher grade ores.
If you do want to maintain your recovery not over swap your mill out.
But we have ample capacity and a lot of flexibility in what we can do with that mill.
We’re permitted to go up to what 2 000? 2 000 tons per day.
Right okay.
Perfect guys thank you very much.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just to kind a get an update on the Guadalupe project I have a presentation in front of me that’s putting NPV of that project that $25 million but that was based on a $20 ounce silver assumption and $1 300 gold.
If we would kind a mark those to market $15 silver and $1 100 gold what would the NPV be? We have a few offsets there Jorge obviously lower prices would be negative but I don’t know what if it’s our presentation that is a plan like I mentioned in my comments it’s got about only 30% of the total material from Guadalupe in it it assumes that 1 500 ton a day rate starting next September and staying flat throughout the remaining years out to 2021.
In reality that’s not going to be the case but we’re trying to do and what I was trying to telegraph in my comment is we’re going to get that 1 500 ton a day rate up higher than that we just don’t have it in the plans and in the position yet to share it with you.
But as we get into the first quarter and we can demonstrate that to you based on the basis of a well-engineered plan you will see higher tonnages and higher production levels and higher cash flow that would probably more than offset a mark to current spot prices.
Frank can you get.
Yes I would just add Jorge this is Frank.
We have a little solid base case it was developed at higher prices and that’s not going to slow us down in terms of how we want to take advantage of that resource.
The real key at Guadalupe is to develop additional ore zones underground and that’s what we are working towards through our development efforts and that’s what’s currently being planned and closed to new plants and to look at to see what that does but even at the lower prices I mean we’re not going to be satisfied with what we estimate in our base case we are going to improve on that.
Okay.
And if I could maybe just have a follow-up with Peter.
I guess one of the difficulties in valuing precious metals companies in this current environment is you are looking for something to latch onto whether it’s price earnings or price to cash flow or enterprise value and book value and looking at you guys book value you’re still are carrying about a $1.6 billion equity value on book.
Your stock is trading at about one-fifth of that amount but we look back at what you are using in terms of your assumptions for silver and gold prices and maybe I’m off here but I read that your resources are calculated at $29 silver your gold at 1 600 and I am just wondering at what point do you have to make the executive decision with your accountants to kind of mark to market a more realistic number and take these book value write downs that are required to reflect the current asset values in this current market? Yes.
That was a pretty leading way to ask a question but in any case let’s separate reserve resource pricing we’ll go through that exercise independently and obviously reserve and resource prices will track something closer to where the market has taken us over the course of the year but as you know that’s a very inexact science.
Last year we booked an $800 million impairment charge on Kensington and Palmarejo we go through our process through the year but certainly with a finer point at year-end and this year will be no exception in terms of reviewing the carrying value of our assets on the balance sheet and we’ll draw conclusions at that point but certainly directionally your comment is well taken and fair it’s an issue that we’ll look at and draw a conclusion at the appropriate time.
But carrying value of assets in a period where silver prices are half what they were two years has a significant and we look for triggering events price in isolation is not a triggering even but it’s something we have to take account of in that process so.
Right.
And you guys did say earlier that of your senior notes there are no covenants which I am interpreting would be more a flow covenants but are there any net tangible book value covenants or if your tangible book was to come down significantly could there be any collateral impacts on secured or unsecured debt access? Jorge no impact it is a maintenance covenant package only no tangible book value or any such test that would have an impact on our bond covenants.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaip from BMO.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
I am going to just a follow a bit on what Jorge was talking about and you have shown good capacity to improve grade at Kensington Palmarejo is a plant that is moving in that direction and I am just wondering with the contemplation of looking at reserves at year end at lower metal prices which project do you see being more sensitive my sense is that it’s going to be Rochester but I’m wondering if you can provide any more details? Hey it’s Mitch.
We have been looking at some sensitivities based on a year ago reserve levels.
I think you’re right Rochester is the most sensitive to lower price reserve and resource assumptions obviously we’ve added a lot there over the last couple of years but it’s fair to say we’ll give a lot of that back here at the end of this year.
And then just looking at your operating cost reduction plans I mean you’ve done quite a bit of work at reducing cost and I’m just wondering how much more of the cost reduction you’re contemplating is really going to be reducing base costs unit costs on a per ton basis versus an improving grade that is going to reduce your overall cost on per ounce basis? I’ll take that one this is Frank Andrew.
The fact of the matter is that for the last two years we’ve been very focused on cost reductions and have achieved a lot roughly 8% direct mining cost reductions being achieved and last year and that’s sort of what we’re on target to get to this year.
That’s not going to go away at the end of the day as we look forward it all comes back to the your operating plans and what are the key features of that in terms of how the cost will be shed and in some cases some of them might be quite significant.
For instance we plan to see some open pit mining at Palmarejo next year the people that are currently mining the equipment is being used and maintained and all the diesel that is used to run that equipment.
A lot of these things will drop off of milestone points and you’ll see shifts down.
But that focus on cost reductions in all the different areas that we are focused in will not stop.
And can I say that 8% reductions are possible year-over-year for an indefinite period of time I’d say no but we’re going to approach it like it is.
Okay.
And then just speaking on diesel prices I mean sure part of the release that you’re going to see at Rochester is in fuel prices and I’m just wondering if you’re starting to see that flow through on the operating level? We are we’re very pleased with where those prices have gone and we’ve been quite happy with cyanide cost this year expect to reap those benefits as we go into next year.
Okay thank you very much.
Via reduction of consumption and also prices helping a lot.
Great thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Levy from Jeffries.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Would you consider monetizing any of the various external growth or strategic investments that you guys have at this point? I mean it seems like difficult time to try to shale low here but many of you needed to raise some money would you consider doing that? Well yes I think the short answer is yes and you I think hit the nail on the head it’s not necessarily a sellers’ market right now and I think the assets that we do have especially the big four we need to make progress on these initiatives more progress in order for someone to really I think get comfortable to pay us the kind of value that we see at these assets.
So as we progressed on our plans hopefully that bid/ask spread would narrow and maybe if the right kind of opportunity came along we would certainly take a look at it.
But I think it’s just raising capital through monetization of assets you got to have a good plan for what you’re going to do with the proceeds and not just sell to sit on cash but… So the plan is to spend a little bit of money de-risk some of the projects and then potentially flip.
Well I don’t know if that’s the plan to flip anything our plan is to improve them and run them and extract even more value but if someone wanted to come along and pay us what we thought was full value we would certainly consider it.
Alright thanks very much guys.
Thanks Brett.
Your next question comes from the line of David [inaudible] from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi guys thanks for taking my question.
Just looking at Kensington for the quarter it looks like sales was quite a bit ahead of production and looks like we might have some of that fall off in Q4 can you just kind of talk about what’s going on there and what should we expect for production to be higher than sales in the fourth quarter? Frank go ahead.
This is Frank.
There was a catch up of sales in that particular quarter which [inaudible] on the revenue side and with concentrate shipments there is a kind of cyclic ebb and flow.
We are working at all time trying to always minimize the gap between what we produce and what we sell.
We’re doing a very good job at that in most quarters but there are things that can happen that would delay the shipment or delay its processing on the other end and these things happen but you’ll continue to see a little bit of ebb and flow in how the revenues are coming in produced versus sold.
We’re just trying to keep that gap as tight as possible.
I think there are always issues around revenue recognition and timing of shipment around the quarter end and when we actually can book that revenue we try and minimize it obviously as Frank suggested but it’s a continuing challenge for us always.
Great.
And then I know you kind of got it to flattish type CapEx next year but what would you consider just base maintenance CapEx if we stripped out all kind of growth in the company? Approximately $50 million David Okay.
And then just on the hedges just to make sure I am clear you guys have had you have hedge production for Q4 this year and Q1 in next year but there are no hedges going beyond Q1 of next year is that correct? Yes that’s right David and not surprisingly there are put spreads on silver and gold 1.25 million ounces for silver in Q4 and Q1 and the put spread starts at 18 and goes down to 16.
So that’s paying out a significant amount of money and it’s 25 000 ounces of gold for each for Q4 and Q1 but you’re correct they extend the end of Q1 of next year only and we would look at opportunistically extending those but certainly in this price environment those are not the kind of opportunistic conditions that we’d be looking at extending.
Certainly understand.
And then last question is just on like you said you bought back some bonds during the quarter I believe you guys still have a stock authorization out there I mean with your stock price where it is how do you think about buying back stock versus bonds at this point? It’s a capital allocation issue and we had lots of spirited discussion internally on that but in this liquidity preserving environment that we’re in right now while our stock price looks extremely attractive buying back bonds and pairing back that cash interest commitment at this point just seems like the prudent thing to do.
Great.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of David [inaudible] from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hey good afternoon guys.
You mentioned earlier in the call that you are looking to spend some CapEx dollars to try to reduce costs.
Just wanted to kind of get a better sense on how much of that CapEx plan relates to lowering costs and how much can you actually lower cost by on either a silver ounce equivalent basis or how you want to think about it? I’ll take a crack at that.
If you think about the three mines I talked about over the next couple of years Rochester the capital to go in there would be primarily for expansion of leach pad capacity.
And a lot of the capital that has already been invested there to drive the kind of efficiencies that we’re seeing there on a unit cost basis.
But Rochester – that would be for Rochester probably over the next couple of years of combined $70 million to support the kind of lower cost profile that we now are enjoying there.
At Kensington the cost to develop this higher grade material that we’ve talked about and get into the mind plan over the next couple of years is probably about $50 million and that’s designed into drive cost reductions from what has been kind of a plus $1 000 announced cash cost profile to something that starts with an eight on the cost.
And then at down at Palmarejo I mentioned what we’re doing there is really the Guadalupe development over the next couple of years ‘15 and ‘16 you could earmark about $40 million for that and that’s designed to drive the cost down there along the lines that we’ve laid out even in that July mine plan that we’ve disclosed that can get ultimately I think in that plan we show cost on as per silver equivalent and ounce basis getting down into the single-digits there.
But when you kind of roll that altogether then I have made the comment about our goal is that in 2017 getting those all in sustaining cost down 15% to 20% from where they were say last year is what the objective is by deploying this capital in those ways.
Does that help? Yes I think it does.
So if I think about all in sustaining costs I think you guys are talking about some so in 2015 I don’t have the number in front of me but I want to say something like $19 or $20 an ounce of that rate? Yes it’s about right.
Okay.
So that’s essentially shaving off 3 to 4 bucks an ounce.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And then with respect to the percentage of your book that’s hedged I mean it seems like it’s about a third for silver little bit more gold for the next couple of quarters.
Have you thought about potentially monetizing those hedges concerning where silver and gold are right now just potentially capture some upside or is that? We have looked at that and bigger percentages are correct.
Okay.
Perfect.
I think those are my questions.
Thanks very much.
Thanks David.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mitch Krebs I turn the call back to you.
Okay.
Well thank you everybody.
Appreciate your questions and you’re take the time to dial in today.
And we look forward to speaking with you I guess in early 2015 to discuss our fourth quarter results and our full year 2014 results.
So thanks again for your time.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Suzanne and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you Ms.
Bridget Freas.
You may begin your conference.
Good morning welcome to our fourth quarter and full-year 2014 earnings conference call.
There are slides available on our website to accompany today’s remarks.
Please review the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our latest 10-K and 10-Qs for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made today.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Bridget.
Good morning everyone.
I know it's a busy reporting day.
So thanks for making the time to dial-in.
I'll take the first 10 minutes or so to hit a few highlights and then we can open it up for any questions you may have for the team or for me.
There's no question that 2014 was a tough year for stockholders and for the sector.
Silver was down another 19% after being down 36% in 2013 and overall sentiment towards precious metals remained negative for the most part.
That said we did a lot of things during the year to move the company forward in a positive direction and to position the company for near-team growth in production and cash flow.
We looked at it as a year of opportunity to make some tough decisions that we think will benefit stockholders over the next several years.
It was the first full-year where we had all of the organizational improvements in place which was the main reason we were able to make the progress we made.
There were several key questions and concerns that were facing the company entering 2014 that I think we did a really good job addressing during the year.
You may recall Rochester had a disappointing end to 2013 which called into question our ability to deliver on the kind of production and cost performance in 2014 and beyond that we have been talking about.
A lot of people question the viability of Palmarejo entering 2014 with low reserves and onerous royalty stream and a lack of long-term visibility.
At Kensington we started to show signs of stability there in 2013 but it was still considered to fairly marginal high-cost gold mine.
And we also we acquired Orko Silver in early 2013 in a much higher price environment and there were questions whether we would complete a feasibility study mid-year last year and keep moving right on into construction in order to grow our production and prioritize production growth over returns.
And if you fast forward one-year now to where we are today and you look back at 2014 Rochester’s silver equivalent production last year rose almost 50% and mining costs per ton dropped about 30% during the year.
And as we look here at 2015 we expect to deliver double-digit percentage production growth at even lower costs again this year.
Looking beyond 2015 we expect to still see a very solid profile there at Rochester.
The technical report we filed yesterday shows annual production of 5 to 6 million silver ounces and more than 60 000 gold ounces for the next several years.
That's a big jump from where the mine was just a year ago with production about a half of those levels in 2013 of 2.8 million ounces of silver and 30 000 ounces of gold.
So with that kind of production together with the improved cost structure we are now seeing there we should see significant cash flow out of Rochester looking ahead.
At Palmarejo we worked very hard during 2014 to address the questions there and to get the operations future squared away.
During the year the team developed a more efficient high-return and low-capital plan to develop the nearby Guadalupe deposit which produced its first ounces in December.
We anticipate Guadalupe will become the main source of higher grade silver and gold production at Palmarejo for many years to come.
One of the tough decisions we made last year was the strategic decision to commit to a transition of Palmarejo to an all underground operation that prioritizes quality ounces rather than quantity of ounces and that is capable of generating higher margins and healthy free cash flow over a long mine life.
That means 2015 is a year with a lot of moving pieces the end of open pit mining mid-year the likely end of the old Palmarejo underground by year-end and a ramp up in underground production that we are already seeing at Guadalupe.
Last year we also at Palmarejo successfully renegotiated the royalty stream held by Franco-Nevada which is expected to significantly boost the mine's free cash flow going forward and provides us with $22 million of funding this year for Guadalupe’s ongoing development and ramp up.
And then in December we announced the acquisition of Paramount Gold and Silver the next door neighbor to Palmarejo to add nearby high- grade ore that we anticipate developing quickly and for very little capital.
Paramount's main deposit is expected to become a second source of high-margin silver and gold to supplement the growing production from the Guadalupe deposit that's located only 800 meters away.
Although this was strategically an easy decision to make it was made more difficult given the weaker price environment last year and the lower equity valuations we saw during 2014.
But after the closing of the Paramount transaction here in the first half of the year and once it's up and producing alongside Guadalupe we think Palmarejo will be capable of producing high-margin cash flow from an annual production profile for the next eight years of about 6 million-ounces of silver and about a 110 000-ounces of gold with still a lot of drilling to do and additional higher grade silver and gold ounces to hopefully add to the mine plan.
And then at Kensington we brought down our costs a lot there in 2014.
Our cost per ounce during the first two quarters of the year were around $1 000 an ounce.
We brought that down over 15% by the fourth quarter to $845 ounce.
We also last year identified and drilled out an initial resource on one of a series of high-grade veins that are collectively called Jew Allen and are only about 100 meters away from the current mining areas there we expect the Jew Allen discovery to grow more with more drilling and we anticipate getting it into production sometime in 2017 with grades over three times higher than our current reserve grade sourcing about 25% of our production from Jew Allen should materially lower Kensington's unit costs.
Regarding the La Preciosa product we completed the feasibility study that scheduled mid-year last year and decided to defer the project for now.
Although the project had a positive return the decision presented a good opportunity for us to show investors that we mean what we say when we talk about capital discipline and how we allocate capital.
Basically we felt we could generate higher rates of return for our equity holders else where in the current climate and we turned out to be right.
Last month we announced the acquisition of the Wharf Gold mine from Goldcorp for $105 million.
We expect this transaction to close tomorrow which is about six weeks sooner than we originally targeted.
Wharf is a U.S.
based producing mine that will give us an immediate boost to cash flow and should help reduce our overall costs with an estimated mid-to-high teens rate of return at current price I think we made the right decision for our stockholders.
We accomplished all of this during 2014 well been very mindful of our balance sheet and not overextending ourselves.
We ended the year with approximately $271 million in cash and equivalents and have a flexible debt structure that doesn’t mature for another six years.
At current prices we expect to consume cash this year and next to fund the initiatives necessary to complete the repositioning that is now well underway.
And the company we expect to emerge from all this looks pretty exciting.
Three other things I want to quickly mention before we open it up to Q&amp;A.
The first is to start reserves.
Yesterday we announced our year-end reserves and resources which assumed a silver price that was 20% lower than 2013 for both reserves and resources and our gold price assumptions declined significantly as well.
Our reserve prices are inline with long-term consensus prices at $19 for silver and $12.75 for gold.
All together our silver equivalent reserves increased slightly year-over-year and our silver equivalent resources decreased 45% but each now contain higher quality ounces than they did a year ago.
The big changes worth flagging are the increase in reserve grades at Palmarejo and Kensington the reduction in reserves at San Bartolome reflecting the lower prices we use and the inclusion of resources at La Preciosa into reserves.
Although we're not planning to build La Preciosa at this time there is a sizable amount of economic material at our price of $19 silver just not economic enough to justify moving ahead right now for us.
You've heard us talk a lot about our strategy to maximize grade margin over production ounces.
Our current reserves and mine plans now better reflect these decisions we're making and this strategy and we continue to add higher quality resources particularly at the independent deposit at Palmarejo and the Jew Allen deposit at Kensington that I already mentioned which are two key areas of focus in our 2015 drilling plans.
The second thing I wanted to mention quickly is just the write down included in our financial results.
Our 2014 results included $1 billion after-tax impairment charge which is obviously a big number.
This was obviously a function of lower prices that we’ve used particularly our reserve and resource price assumptions.
The majority of the impairment charge was related to mineral interest not PP&amp;E that the company has been carrying from prior acquisitions and development activities that took place during peak metals prices.
When looking at our balance sheet our stockholders equity was about $1.7 billion last year and our equity market value has recently been around $700 million.
So an adjustment in our carrying values was necessary to better align our balance sheet with the market value of our equity.
And when you look at our amortization relative to our sales it’s been running a lot higher than our peers and didn't really reflect the reality of our business especially in this phase of the precious metals price cycle.
Although it’s never an easy decision to take a big impairment charge it was an opportunity I think to clean things up looking forward.
By using lower metals prices our mine plans balance sheet and income statement should now be a better reflection of our underlying business going forward.
The third thing I want to quickly highlight is just I want to run down the numbers from last year to emphasize the progress we made in delivering against expectations as a company and in reducing our costs.
Our costs applicable to sales for the full-year ended being 8% lower than our guidance at the beginning of the year.
Even though our production of $32.2 million silver equivalent ounces was at the high-end of our guidance range.
Our CapEx of $64 million declined 36% from 2013 and was below our guidance.
G&amp;A of $41 million declined 26% compared to 2013 and was below our initial guidance.
Our total exploration spend of $31 million declined 10% compared to 2013 and was in line with guidance.
We achieved lower unit costs almost across the board which as you all well know is the name of the game in our industry.
The slide deck on our website includes per-ton cost detail by quarter for each of our mines.
We expect to carry this cost momentum into 2015.
Our 2015 all-in sustaining cost guidance is $17.50 to $18.50 which would be about a 7% decline over 2014 levels.
So as we sit here today in February of 2015 our view and the view I hear from more and more of our stockholders is that we have a sound strategy in place.
That we have a credible team and an organization capable of executing the strategy that our existing operations are on paths leading to strong cash flow starting in 2017 that we plan to further strengthen the company with two solid acquisitions set to close here early this year that we're using our balance sheet to fund high-return opportunities that improve the business and drive down costs and that we're now better positioned to offer stockholders high-quality near-term lower cost growth.
Although last year was definitely a tough one for stockholders I feel we've positioned the company and our investors for a good run over the next several years.
So with that we would be happy to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brett Levy from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hey guys you said you’re going to be cash flow negative 2015 and 2016.
Can we venture I guess that you're probably out of the M&amp;A market at this point sort of having made these strategic moves? And then also based on your assumptions talk about CapEx in 2015 and CapEx in 2016 and maybe what kind of negative cash flow those drive? Yes sure.
Hi it's Mitch.
Yes on the M&amp;A - yes I think for us right now the priority is on integrating and executing each of those deals both Paramount and Wharf do different things for the company and fit in nicely.
In the case of Paramount it's kind of a continuation of what we're already doing there at Guadalupe as far as a lot of underground development work and that's already underway there to get that material into production hopefully by the end of the year.
And then of course at Wharf that's a bit of a different animal with that being an existing operating company or asset.
So that's much more of a real time integration activity and so our focus will be on bringing those both into the fold and executing the plans that I've kind of outlined in our existing assets as we look forward at least in the near-term.
As far as CapEx goes I think we’ve put out 2015 guidance today.
I think about two-thirds of that guidance range is sustaining the rest would be development.
As you look into 2016 a similar range but a little bit higher because we anticipate building a new leach pad at Rochester in 2016.
So that would be kind of the last big chunk of CapEx to complete some of these initiatives that we’ve been talking about and really lengthens the runway there at Rochester in terms of leach pad capacity.
So that's kind of the range as we think about 2015 and 2016 CapEx.
Does that help? Yes.
Can you talk about any initiatives to increase liquidity at this point or? Peter.
Yes certainly around Wharf we're in discussions at this point as we talked about in our press release to access a revolver secured loan for about a half of the capital cost of Wharf which will certainly mitigate liquidity and obviously we'll be thinking about takeouts at that but it will immediately bolster our cash flow as well in 2015.
And then last question.
Is there anything as you go through these periods of negative cash flow in 2015 and 2016? Is there anything in any debt covenant bond or bank or anything like that - you are concerned about in terms of a breach? No we have no maintenance covenants in our high-yield in denture and that's really the only operative covenants package that we're operating under.
As Mitch alluded to that's our sort of single tranche of debt.
It was six years in front of us.
We intentionally put that in place to handle periods like we're going through of building in the company and depressed metal prices as well.
All right.
Thanks very much guys.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Graf of Cowen.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Hi Adam A question about the write-down I know about a billion bucks.
Could you say how much of that is Preciosa? Yes I think in the slides I don’t have the slides right in front of me but there is a breakout – let me get to the slide number Adam if doesn’t - Slide 9 breaks it out by asset.
And I can just give you the number Preciosa after tax 245.
Okay I’ll check that breakout.
My question as potentially it applies to Mexican taxes with this write-down as far as your tax is at Palmarejo this write-down allow you to push off paying that higher 30% tax rate for the longer and at current prices when do you expect to be paying that higher tax rate at Palmarejo.
I think the short answer to the question Adam is this is a write-down for accounting purposes that has no implications from a tax perspective for Palmarejo.
Oh it doesn’t create any kind of a net operating loss that you would be able to take advantage of in Mexico? Yes.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure Adam see you.
Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible].
Your line is open.
Thank you so much actually the question I was going to ask about the write-downs was just answered.
So thank you.
Good.
Okay no problem.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Jorge Beristain of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hey guys Jorge with the Deutsche Bank here.
Hi Jorge.
Hi Mitch just following up on those write-down questions what is the remaining carrying value of La Preciosa on your books right now? $40 million.
Thank you and I was just wondering if you could comment about the general conservativeness of still using a $19 silver assumption I know you did flag a few and we have already seen some of your competitors in that range but silver the metal is much closer to $16 an ounce and if we just compare what the gold industry has done generally taking their average reserve price to spot gold around $1200 right now.
Why you feel that silver should still trade at a higher premium as it relates to reserves relative to spot.
If you could just talk about the general conservatism there and if that’s something that your accounts decided or how you come to that application of the $19 per ounce? Yes.
Obviously there's a bit of subjectivity there and with silver's volatility relative to gold it makes it even a little more imprecise.
Obviously we start with three year trailing average as kind of guided by the SEC which those prices are well above where we are today and so that kind of puts you off into a bit of a different path as far as trying to estimate what you think a good long-term price is to calculate reserves.
And we look at the analyst consensus which is exactly spot-on with the prices that we've assumed.
I hear you on the gap between $19 on silver that we're using versus less than that today but silver's volatility is such that what was it last week it was or two weeks ago $17.50 and then that makes $19 look not all that far away.
It seems like that could be made up or lost in the span of a day or two with silver.
Also we set those prices back in kind of the fall early fall.
So that adds another level of complexity as far as setting something that you hope will still be relevant at year-end So and you know with gold become more-and-more of a part of our business over 50% of our revenue I think as we look at 2015 I think the fact that we're using a gold price of $12.75 which is a lot closer to spot kind of helps maybe offset what looks like a bigger gap as we see here today on the silver side.
I don’t know if that gives you any color or insights Jorge but those are some of my thoughts.
Sure that makes sense and what I’m actually trying to get at though is just sort of if we continue to languish in a very depressed silver market environment are we going to be revisiting this write down situation 12-months from now where you guys have to do another mark-to-market and say go to $16 as your reserve price? And what I'm trying to get at is what are the remaining sensitivities to your book value because with this write-down of a change of $6 in your pricing assumption you wrote-off a billion.
Most of that was land value as we said but there was also some PP&amp;E which I also wanted to maybe get Mitchell's opinion on that.
And the rest was land but I'm just really trying to get at if we were to go mark-to-market at $16 where does book value go from this point? Yes I mean a year from now if we've seen a year of $16 silver prices we’ll probably - it's likely we would use a much lower price then to calculate our reserves.
Although that is not a linear decline as you know you can't look at where we were last year at $20 - I think $25 silver and today at $19 and extrapolate down to say $16.
The mine plans will be modified to incorporate the material that's still economic at those prices.
And as far as whether that would spill over then into impairments hard to say although I’d say at this point we've taken a pretty good whack out of our carrying value.
So I don’t think there's nearly as big of a target there as there was as we entered the end of 2014 and we ran our reserves and mine plans.
So lot of moving parts between now and then but I don't think there's a risk of us seen a linear decline in book value for example next year even at a current silver price.
Okay got it.
Sorry Peter yes.
I was just going to say in terms of allocation between mineral properties and depreciable property it’s a pro rata allocation once we actually derive the impairment charge.
So those numbers actually get derived and Mitch really gave that commentary from a perspective in terms of your question hopefully.
Got it.
Yes I was really trying to figure out why the PP&amp;E went down so much as well given that the values of plants don't change overnight like that either.
But just to drive on the final point here.
In terms of the reserves that you're now counting for La Preciosa.
Is there mine plan associated with those because I’m not understanding how you could bring that project back into reserves if it’s basically suspended.
And I think in July you guys had written down the reserves and now you're writing them back up.
So could you just talk a little bit about why you would have any carrying value for that asset at this point and if there is a mine plan associated with those ounces or those at risk ounces as well of our further write-off? Yes I’ll start and then Joe you can chime in.
We never did have any reserves at La Preciosa until now we had resources a year ago on our books.
But until now at year-end we've never had reserves at La Preciosa.
Joe as far as carrying a reserve there at $19 do you want to talk a little more about that.
Yes it’s Joe Phillips One interesting point to note in La Preciosa so we did the feasibility study at $22.
And so redoing the reserves at $19 is much less of a drop than going from $25 to $19 as we did for the rest of the company.
Secondly we haven't been standing idle since we published that.
We have been doing a considerable amount of optimization of the mine plan.
We have actually found some interesting ways to improve the project.
So it is cash positive at $19.
And I think the proper definition of reserves I think it’s a correct step to include this at $19 price.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Adam Graf Cowen.
Your line is open.
Thanks just a quick follow-up question guys.
Just as far as the year going forward here what can we expect for new mine plans in 43-101 reports? Yes you kind of stole my thunder as far as my wrap-up comments Adam.
But I'll go ahead and I'll flag those things now.
So Wharf will have an initial 43-101 with an updated mine plan and reserves some time here in the first half of 2015.
The paramount once that deal closes which is hopefully say April on the heels of that then we'll have an updated technical report that will incorporate the combination of Palmarejo and paramount and will establish an initial reserve then at Don Ese plus Independencia as well as a consolidated mine plan for the overall mining complex you might say.
And then the other one is Kensington although we won’t be doing that and we don’t expect to be doing that through a 43-101.
We will putout a rescoped kind of PEA type mine plan for Kensington probably in early April that I think we've mentioned this before.
It will reflect kind of what the impact of this higher grade material from Jew Allen can have on that mine plan as we look forward and that will be I think I mentioned already early April sometime.
So those are the - am I missing any of them.
And then you probably say we filed updated TRs for all the properties I think yesterday.
Great.
So at Kensington you will just even though that won’t be 43-101.
Will that just be something that - some sort of a press release really or something? Yes it will be kind of similar to what we did last June or July when we put out an updated Guadalupe mine plan.
Yes.
Perfect perfect.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
No problem.
Take care.
End of Q&amp;A There are no further questions in the queue.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mitch Krebs for his closing remarks.
Okay.
Well hey thanks everybody.
We appreciate your interest and time and questions.
If you think of anything else you know how to get a hold of us and have a good rest of the day.
Thanks.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Coeur Mining first quarter 2015 financial results conference call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Bridget Freas.
Please go ahead.
Welcome to our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There are slides available on our website to accompany today’s remarks.
Please review the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our latest 10-K and 10-Q for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made today.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Bridget.
I can’t think of a company that’s been more active than we have so far this year.
We’ve had a lot of significant developments.
We closed two important acquisitions that should generate solid returns reduce our costs and boost our cash flow.
The acquisition of the Wharf gold mine in South Dakota should lift the company’s cash flow this year by 30%.
And it further awaits our overall country risk profile more toward the US and as our fifth operation brings better balance to our portfolio of mines.
And then we recently completed the acquisition of Paramount Gold and Silver a couple of weeks ago which consolidates the high-grade deposit previously split by a property boundary and add six other sovereign gold deposits next door to our Palmarejo operation in Mexico.
The combined high-grade deposit called Independencia will become a second source of high-grade underground ore to supplement the rising production levels from the nearby Guadalupe underground mine.
And it only requires about $15 million or $20 million of capital and another eight months or so to get into production.
We see Palmarejo becoming our lowest cost and largest mine during the next 18 months with all-in sustaining costs heading toward $10 an ounce once mining from both deposits gets ramped up to over 4000 tonnes a day about half of that coming from Guadalupe and about half of that coming from Independencia.
On the heels of closing Paramount we announced an updated reserve for Palmarejo.
We saw reserves increase by 89% and gold reserves up by 76%.
Nearly 80% of these new reserves are from the assets we acquired through the Paramount transaction at a silver grade that is 31% higher.
Palmarejo’s reserves now total 54 million silver ounces and 876 000 gold ounces.
Compared to just 15 months ago when we kicked off our transition plan at Palmarejo silver reserves have increased 30% and gold reserves have increased 54% despite using much lower metals price assumptions.
Most importantly the average silver reserve grade has increased 32% and the average gold reserve grade has increased 55%.
And then last month we introduced a re-scoped mine plan for our Kensington goldmine that reflects the impact of the high-grade and growing resource at the Jualin deposit.
We plan to start development of an exploration drift over to Jualin this summer at a cost this year of around $6 million and then start drilling the deposit from underground.
Once production from Jualin is up and going for a full year in 2018 our total production is expected to be about 149 000 ounces at costs of about $730 per ounce of gold.
Compared to last year that’s a 34% increase in production and 23% lower operating cost driven by 25% higher grade.
Recent drilling results suggest considerable upside to the mine plant with the potential to grow the resource at Jualin and make 2019 and beyond look similar to the production and cash flow profile we're showing in 2017 and 2018.
The resource at Jualin and it’s over three times the current average reserve grade and represents only a portion of one vein out of five known structures that are sitting stacked on top of each other.
As far as highlights from the first quarter results we issued last night our all-in sustaining costs dropped 8% to $17.66 per silver equivalent ounce compared to the fourth quarter.
And for the primary silver mines as a group production costs were $13.71 per silver equivalent ounce which were down 5%.
Rochester was able to reduce its cost 6% down to $12.95 per silver equivalent ounce and generated $13 [ph] million of free cash flow during the quarter that's the highest since back in the fourth quarter of 2012 when silver averaged a little more than $32 an ounce and gold was just north of $1 700 an ounce.
Despite all the changes taking place at Palmarejo this year the mine managed to reduce its cost by 7% in the quarter to $14.56 per silver equivalent ounce and Kensington averaged a bit higher grade during the quarter which resulted in cost of $797 an ounce and solid cash flow of $8 million in the quarter.
Overall the two acquisitions the new plants set out Kensington and Palmarejo and Rochester's continued growth are the key components of our overall strategic plan that's expected to result in 30% higher production levels and all-in sustaining costs in the $14 an ounce range that should led to very strong free cash flow starting late next year and into full-year 2017.
From our perspective there are two priorities that are critical to our ability to deliver these results.
The first one is keeping our eye on the ball and continuing to execute the way we've been doing which means maintaining our primary focus internally not externally we clearly we have a full plate right now.
And then the second one is ensuring we have sufficient capital plus a comfortable buffer to fund the key initiatives to get us to where we're trying to go with the Company especially in an environment of weak and volatile silver and gold prices and we have a few simple principles that we're sticking to on this.
The first is maintaining flexible and patient capital structure and by that we mean minimal covenants and restrictions and long-dated maturities for the bulk of our existing debt.
The second principle is keeping a short-term priority on liquidity versus deleveraging as we see it with significant free cash flow expected to start kicking in late year and beyond there is plenty of time for us to prioritize deleveraging until then liquidity and flexibility matter more to us.
The third principle is maintaining a stockholder friendly and non-dilutive approach and mentality toward any outside sources of capital and we place a really high priority here on the per share impact of any financial decisions we make.
And then fourth and finally and maybe most importantly we place a high priority in trying to first unlock and free-up liquidity from inside the business before relying on any external capital market alternatives and there are five main angles we're always working to accomplish this.
First is in the area of capital expenditures both the amount to be invested and the timing of those investments.
We’re constantly evaluating scenarios and opportunities to shift the timing of the capital.
We plan to invest over the next couple of years at Palmarejo Rochester and Kensington in order to balance our liquidity needs with the objective of not disrupting the strategic direction of these important assets and the high returns we expect to generate from these investments.
The second area is obviously operating costs.
We should see lower operating costs this year at each of our mines with the exception of Palmarejo which is in a big transitional year as it sets itself up to be a low double-digit all-in sustaining cost operations starting late next year.
Although we have costs heading in the right direction we are still pursuing anything and everything we can to accelerate this downward trend areas like process improvements maintenance practices efficiency enhancements from larger sized equipment for example our areas receiving a lot of attention here and then obviously paying $0.85 a gallon less than a year ago on the 12 million gallons of diesel we expect to consume this year helps and then having the Mexican peso with over 15 helps too.
The third area we work hard on is working capital.
We are pressing very hard there to reduce supplies inventory improve maintenance downtime narrow the lag time between production and sales to keep as little cash tied up in the operations as possible.
We also have substantial VAT receivable balances in both Bolivia and Mexico which can be a source of tens of millions of dollars in cash this year for us.
We also focus very hard on non-operating costs.
This year’s G&amp;A exploration and pre-development costs are on track to be lower than last year but we keep pushing hard to reduce those expenses as much as we can without undermining our strategic objectives.
And then the fifth and final area are just looking at our portfolio for any opportunities to monetize non-core assets.
We are always evaluating the assets in our portfolio to determine what we might have that isn’t a critical component to our strategy and we may look to monetize those assuming someone is willing to pay an attractive price.
What excites me more than anything is the fact that our strategy is designed to build equity value irrespective of what silver and gold prices do.
If metal prices happen to go up that would obviously be great for stockholders but if metal prices stay where they are or even decline we should still be a significant generator of free cash flow starting late next year with a very low and sustainable cost basis.
So as you monitor our performance during the remainder of the year there are a handful of key milestones you should watch for.
At Palmarejo there are obviously a lot of moving parts.
You should watch to see that we get the mining rates at Guadalupe up to 1 500 tons a day in the third quarter on its way up to 2 000 tons a day next year.
Also you should monitor our development rates over to Independencia.
We should get over there around year-end and start getting that deposit ready for mining during the first part of 2016.
Our drilling results from Guadalupe and from targets located in between Guadalupe and Independencia are also important to monitor as we expand and extend and try to further enhance the life of mine plant at Palmarejo.
And with the amount of process improvements we have made to the plant there you should also monitor our recovery rates during the balance of the year to make sure they are increasing.
And then finally at Palmarejo you should watch for open pit mining to end in the third quarter of this year and underground mining in the old Palmarejo areas end around year-end.
At Kensington as I mentioned we will spend about $6 million this year on Jualin development in addition to about $10 million on underground development at the main Kensington deposit.
At Rochester you should watch to make sure we’re seeing the full year impact this year from the higher mining and crushing rates on both our production levels and unit costs like we did in the first quarter of this year.
And in at Wharf you should monitor our second quarter results since it will be the first quarter where it will be showing sales and costs and cash flow from that mine.
Our guidance for the ten months or so of this year where we’ll be the owners of Wharf is weighted more towards Q3 and Q4 but Q2 is -- will be the first quarter where we’ll show the financial results from owning Wharf.
As we sit here now in May I see us doing the right things doing the things we said we do.
The Company is definitely heading in the right direction but we definitely need to stay focused on our plan on the things we can control and remain disciplined.
And if we do this we believe our stockholders will be well rewarded over time.
So with that I’d be happy to take any questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Arjun Chandar of J.P.
Morgan.
Hi thank you.
Yeah hi.
Can you discuss the evolution of your liquidity position following the end of Q1? Also what is the minimum amount of liquidity you’d need to run the business and what leverage do you have to pull to manage the balance sheet in the face of anticipated near-term cash flow pressure as you ramp up towards that 2017 date? Peter go ahead.
Yes.
In just -- in general evolution of the liquidity position the big uses aside from operations were the acquisition of Wharf for $102 million and then we drew down the bridge loan at the end of the quarter for $50 million to mitigate that and that takes us to the $180 million level that we finished the first quarter at Arjun.
And then your question about minimum liquidity that we look for in the Company to run the business traditionally we’ve set $100 million candidly in the environment that we’re in right now with the expansion plans that Mitch outlined over the next year and a half I would prompt that number up to $150 million that we need to keep a solid buffer through this time period.
So that continued focus on liquidity is something that we’re very focused on at this point.
And Arjun I just to circle back to my comments on to address your question there on the levers our priority is first looking inside the business to see how we can free up liquidity and I mentioned CapEx working capital obviously more we can do on operating costs G&amp;A and potentially any non-core asset sales.
So those are kind of the five levers that I feel like we have our hands on at any given time.
Did that answer your question? Yeah.
That clears it up.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
The next question comes from Craig Johnston of Scotiabank.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
Yeah most of my questions are related to the balance sheet but just also wanted to ask say what are you looking at in terms of pre-development expenses going forward into 2015 and then even beyond into 2016/2017? Yes sure.
Hi Craig.
I think for the full-year pre-development should be around $10 million.
The biggest chunk of that this year under US GAAP we need to expense deal fees.
So I think $6 million of that $10 million relate to deal fees for the Wharf acquisition and the Paramount acquisition.
Included in that $10 million as well is about $2 million or $3 million of holding costs for La Preciosa and for Joaquin down in Santa Cruz Argentina.
So as you look at -- think about 2016 those deal fees obviously won't be there but those holding costs likely will remain.
Okay thanks.
Paramount [ph] obligation is in that as well the accretion in it.
Okay.
And that's around 1.5 million a quarter? Yes.
Okay.
And then just on the VAT receivables any kind of color you can provide on expected timing or is it kind of a black box there? It's a good way of framing it.
In Bolivia we -- a lot of it is a matter of staying very hands-on and maintaining a presence with the authorities to make sure that they do adhere to a timely refund schedule.
A lot of that just gets kind of dumped up with typical administrative and bureaucracy kind of delays.
But there is a pretty well-defined schedule there in Bolivia that we have been able to stick to.
But it's definitely a hands-on kind of relationship that helps make sure that those amounts come back.
In Mexico kind of the same thing I guess.
There is a chunk of VAT about 20 million 24 million that is hung up with hacienda there in conjunction with the ongoing question around treatment of the gold royalty agreement with Franco-Nevada that I think we will hopefully have that result here later this year and that should free up that good chunk of the Mexican VAT but then everything above and beyond that in Mexico seems to stick to a pretty routine schedule.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks Mitch.
That's it from me.
Good quarter guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Craig.
And the next question comes from Garrett Nelson of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi good morning Mitch and Peter.
Good morning.
Hi.
What was the interest rate on the $50 million bridge loan I am just trying to determine the quarterly interest expense you should be -- LIBOR plus 250 basis points Garrett.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's all I have.
Okay thanks Garrett.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mitch Krebs for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you everybody for your time.
Appreciate your interest and your questions and we look forward to updating you on our progress at the end of Q2.
Thanks again.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Coeur Mining second quarter 2015 financial results conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Bridget Freas.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There are slides available on our website to accompany today's remarks.
Please review the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our latest 10-K and 10-Qs for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made today.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Bridget.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining the call.
I'd like to hit some of the second quarter highlights call your attention to a few of the slides that we posted and give you a quick update on our progress on the major priorities and how we see the business looking forward before we open up the call to questions.
The company delivered some solid results in the second quarter.
EBITDA was $35 million on revenue of $166 million.
I think consensus EBITDA for the quarter was something like $22 million.
Operating cash flow of $37 million against CapEx of $24 million.
Production was up 13% compared to the first quarter and all-in sustaining costs of $16.60 were down 6% after declining 8% in the first quarter of the year.
Now that's on a silver equivalent basis using a constant 60:1 silver to gold ratio.
It's easy to get distracted in such a dismal market and with a disappointing share price but we're staying focused on our strategy to keep reducing cost improve the quality of the ounces we mine capture the benefits of larger scale mining at certain of our operations and maintain our liquidity as we transition into expected positive free cash flow starting about 15 months from now.
I look back at our February and May conference calls this year with you all and it seems like everything we said we'd do we've either done or are on track to do.
Our first half performance was very strong and has led us to bump up our full year production guidance range a bit.
Probably more importantly we've lowered our cost guidance range based on the reductions we've realized during the first half of the year.
I am very proud of the way our team is responding to the challenge of lower prices by meaningfully reducing cost at all of our mines.
In fact I think it'd be hard for us to find another mining company reducing cost more meaningfully than we are.
For our three silver mines as a group production costs were $12.56 per silver equivalent ounce which is down 8% from the first quarter.
And the first quarter was actually down 5% compared to the quarter before that.
If you compare that $12.56 to last year's second quarter it was $14 an ounce a year ago.
Rochester's cost dropped 7% to $12.01 per silver equivalent ounce.
Mining cost there actually declined about 9% during the quarter down to $1.39 a ton.
Palmarejo's cost dropped 9% to $13.21 per silver equivalent ounce which I think is really impressive given all the changes taking place there this year.
In fact underground mining cost there dropped by over 30% from $64 a ton in the first quarter to $44 a ton in the second quarter.
This year-to-date performance has prompted us to lower Palmarejo's cost guidance for 2015 by about 8%.
Kensington's cost declined 7% to $745 announced during the quarter and we lowered its full year cost guidance as well.
San Bartolomé's costs decreased 8% and remain on track to hit the original guidance.
We did lower San Bartolomé's production guidance for the full year due to some local political demonstrations and disruptions that impacted our ability to mine and process ore for about three weeks in July.
This decline in guidance was more than offset by the outperformance we're seeing at Kensington and Palmarejo which is a good example of the benefit of having a diverse portfolio of five operations.
A year ago our all-in sustaining costs were $19.10 per silver equivalence ounce which means we've reduced it by $2.50 an ounce or about 13%.
Definitely heading in the right direction but obviously still above where the price of silver is today which means cost maybe keep coming down and that's exactly what we expect to happen here.
As we all know there are limits to the amount of dollar spend that can be cut at any given operation.
To keep reducing cost in a sustainable way better grades and efficiency gains are required to the extent an operation offers those opportunities and fortunately most of our mines do.
And we believe we're about 15 months away from seeing our cost trend down another 10% to 15% from the level seen in the second quarter into the 14s on a silver equivalent basis.
At Palmarejo the transition to higher-grade lower-cost underground mining remains on track.
Mining rates at Guadalupe are now at 1 400 tons a day after only beginning production there last December.
The twin declines over to the high-grade Independencia deposit are scheduled to reach the ore body by yearend and mining there is expected to begin in the first quarter of next year.
We still expect to complete open pit mining there at Palmarejo during the second half.
We're seeing fantastic drilling results to expand Guadalupe to the south and at depth and to define new high-grade resources on known structures located in the half-mile corridor between Guadalupe and Independencia.
We'll provide a more fulsome exploration update on everything going at Palmarejo later this year.
We planned also to file an updated 43-101 technical report later this year most likely in November that will incorporate the drilling results through mid-year of this year and it will layout a mine plan for the 100% underground operation based on the combined Guadalupe and Independencia deposits.
At Rochester larger scale mining is driving double-digit production growth at considerably lower unit costs this year.
Mining and crushing rates have increased about 20% over the past year and should increase more once we complete the expansion of our crusher unit later this year.
Permitting remains on track there for the next leach pad expansion.
We still expect to have all the required permitting there completed early next year.
And as we said in late June we found a way to defer that $26 million capital project from 2016 into 2017 in order to improve our near-term cash flow and liquidity.
At Kensington a combination of higher mining and milling rates and higher grades as we look into the second half have this operation on track for significant product gains at substantially lower cost this year and beyond.
It's great to see Kensington's cost per ounce start with a 7 again now for the third consecutive quarter.
We've now started the decline into the high-grade Jualin deposit where grades are three times higher than the reserve grade at the main Kensington zone and we plan to start underground drilling there next year.
In the meantime we're mining and milling at a rate of about 1 875 tons per day which is about 50% higher than the design capacity for that plant when it was started up in 2010.
In late June we announced the 39% increase in the gold reserves at Wharf which we acquired in February for a $100 million.
We just filed a technical report yesterday afternoon that shows an after-tax NPV of $138 million using a 10% discount rate based on reserves only and a flat gold price of $1 275 an ounce.
So that TR is a huge win for us.
The TR shows a mine plan with average annual production of about 90 000 ounces and average annual operating cash flow of over $30 million and average annual CapEx of only about $2.5 million.
Now that all equates to an internal rate of return on that acquisition of well over 20%.
There is not a lot of acquisitions that you can point to in our industry with that kind of rate of return.
And we think we can further extend Wharf's mine life based on some near-pit drilling currently taking place there.
Gold production at Wharf for 2015 is second half weighted as we accelerate mining and crushing rates and as we mine some higher grades in an area called Golden Rewards.
Production for the 10 months we'll have owned Wharf this year should be in the 75 000 ounce range with cost around $800 an ounce.
The company's total reserves have increased 24% since the beginning of the year as a result of the two acquisitions we've completed; Wharf as I mentioned and then Paramount Gold and Silver.
Slide 4 in the slides we posted highlights these changes since yearend.
I think what's important for investors to know is that the reserves we've added as a result of these acquisitions represent immediate or near-term sources of production that we expect to boost overall margins and cash flow over the next several years.
I want to now switch gears to one of our other key strategic priorities I mentioned which is maintaining and managing our liquidity as these operational initiatives continue to take hold and drive down our unit costs.
Slide 11 in the posted slides summarizes our balance sheet.
Late in the second quarter we closed a five-year $100 million secured loan that matures in 2020 and we repaid a $50 million bridge loan that was set to mature early next year.
We ended the quarter with a little over $200 million of cash and equivalents and what we consider to be a flexible patient capital structure with minimal restrictions and no significant maturities until mid-2020.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $548 million and net debt was about $342 million at the end of the second quarter.
At current prices we forecast full year 2015 EBITDA of around $115 million and expect that to increase in 2016 and 2017 as we've laid in out in three-year outlook.
Our near-term focus remains on maintaining liquidity and financial flexibility that we expect to be able to delever as our cost continue to decline EBITDA and free cash flow climb and our cash balance begins to build which should be well in advance of the maturity dates on any of our debt.
Sub-$15 silver and sub-$1 100 gold makes it an even more challenging environment for our industry and it certainly makes it even tougher on investors.
But we see our company is having a unique opportunity to create value for stockholders over the next several years even in a low price environment.
And our strategy is designed to deliver that value as quickly as we can.
So to wrap up we feel we have a sound strategy in place a strong team and organization that are doing a great job executing the strategy and a set of assets that are starting to deliver higher-quality production and lower costs.
Executing the strategy and managing our liquidity are the name of the game and we'll continue to stay focused on delivering the plan we've laid out.
So with that we'd now be happy to open it up for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Chris Thompson from Raymond James.
Couple of quick questions here just firstly starting off with Palmarejo.
Could you just sort of maybe just expand on there the mine plan for the second half of this year as far as -- obviously you're going to be ramping up open pit and underground mining at Palmarejo.
Are you looking at the Q3 or the Q4 there? We actually take bets on that very question around here because it keeps giving more than what we think which is overall a good thing.
I think probably likely it will be fourth quarter.
Frank you're on that side of the bet as well.
Yes.
That's where I placed my bet.
Will that be for the open pit and underground? No that'd be the open pit.
I think the old underground will continue at least in the early 2016.
We're having some great -- the guys are doing a great job there with some ground support that's allowing us to access some areas there especially in the lower 76 Clavo that have some really nice grade.
And without some of these ground support techniques that they're applying I don't think we'd ever be able to get in there.
So that keeps it kind of going along and giving us a nice extra little boost to go along with everything that we have going on down at Guadalupe.
What sort of runway should we be modeling I guess for the underground there as far as competing the mill feed do you think? Sorry Chris.
Did you mean that the old underground at Palmarejo or at Guadalupe? Yes the underground at the Palmarejo.
I'm just sort of trying to figure out what to put in the model? Go ahead Frank.
Previously this year we did some development work in an area of the Palmarejo underground called Rosario and that development is done and we're in there actively mining and seeing on average around 500 metric tons per day coming out of that zone.
And then we get remnants from Clavo 76 both upper and lower but those will be gone before too long.
But it's Rosario that carries this certainly into this year and a little bit into 2016.
The grades have been very very good though even though the tonnage has dropped off quite a bit.
The grade has been really nice ranging between 250 grams 350 grams per ton silver and some pretty decent gold values as well ranging between 3 grams and sometime 4 grams per ton.
So it's a really nice shot still coming out of Palmarejo complex.
Meanwhile the open pit we're still mining somewhere in the vicinity of 3 000 tons per day on average and getting good grades for the open pit.
Just moving on just to Rochester quickly.
Again looking at I guess obviously you're increasing the crushing capacity there.
What should we model I guess as far as the crush rate I guess in the second half of this year into next year? As we look at 2016 kind of run rate I think it's around 16.5 million tons.
And I think Frank that crusher expansion project should be done what? October September.
Yes.
We're looking at having the commissioning done either September October and then starting to add the additional tons to be equivalent to like 16.5 million tons per year run rate.
And then just moving on to Kensington.
It's nice to see the cost coming down there.
What was the gain there? Was that a mining cost reduction or any relief on the price raising cost there or the G&amp;A can you quantify that a little bit? The reductions are being seen in the mine predominantly across these facilities run at a very flat rate in terms of cost per ton and G&amp;A is relatively flat as well.
But as far as the themes that are helping our cost there so much this year that have been beneficial fuel costs.
We've had a very well-balanced capital development program underground that we need on to execute the delivery of ore to the surface.
It just really optimize that process so that we're not in these modes and trying to catch up on development at greater than normal expense or just developing too far ahead where the benefits aren't going to come until later.
And we've got that all balanced out really well but it's really the fuel efficiency.
Then if you look at where we've been as Mitch mentioned for the last three quarters cost there is starting with a 7.
We're very very intent on maintaining that through the end of the year.
But as you will note that we've got guidance that's just slightly higher.
I always have to kind of hedge reserve -- make sure I've got a reserve there in case there is anything that will go on with our generators in the way of maintenance that's going to be required can sometimes be quite expensive and kind of scheduled mill maintenance.
Things that have been deferred in the first half we may not be able to defer for the entire year.
But our goal is to run where we're at and try to achieve by yearend as close to where we're out as we possibly can.
And it's been fantastic to see this happening.
The next question comes from Joseph Reagor from ROTH Capital Partners.
So two questions.
First one on the San Bartolomé with the issue you had in the early part of the quarter is there something that you think is fully resolved or something that could resurface later in the year? I know the political situation there has been a bit unstable? Which I have complete clarity on the answer to that.
I'd say that the last time we saw kind of a dustup like this it was about five years ago.
As you know Bolivia is a complicated place.
You've got a lot of things at play there in terms of -- that region of Potosí really is suffering from the impact of lower commodity prices and unemployment rates.
They want the federal government to invest more in that region to try and spark some employment and economic activity.
And you had the Pope coming through Bolivia and they kind of took advantage of that to put a spotlight on their situation and their views and demands.
So you kind of had a few things that came together there that created that set of disruptions.
I think just by the way it kind of ran out of stream people were ready to get back to work.
And I think that that is how it will remain.
I mean I can't predict that it's going to never flare-up again.
But I think things are as back to as normal as normal is.
And we'll just continue to run it as we have.
And it wasn't like this disruption was due to anything that we caused or did.
We kind of got caught in the middle of an in-country dispute between the government and the civic committee there in Potosí that's called Comcipo.
But I'm glad that we've done the things we've done to grow the business in places like the U.S.
and Mexico and Bolivia has become less and less of a significant component to our production and cash flow.
Continuing kind of on that thought line then.
Is it possible that you guys might look to sell off the San Bartolomé mine at some point? Well we definitely are always looking at ways we can monetize or optimize our portfolio.
And a lot I think will depend for Bolivia on what does the 2016 mine plan and budget look like in this kind of a price environment.
I know we're not in the business of running money losing minds.
So to the extent that it's a meaningful cash flow contributor next year.
That will weigh on our decision making.
Obviously the market to sell assets right now is a bit depressed as well.
So you got to weigh what you'd get versus what you'd give up in terms of cash flow.
So that's not really a direct answer to your question but kind of how we think about it at least.
And then kind of on the cost side at Kensington.
Can you kind of give us maybe a little bit more color of how you guys got such a significant drop in the underground mining cost there? Frank do you want to? Yes I guess I'll just reiterate what I said before.
We're benefiting tremendously from lower fuel prices.
And to see efficiency of our mining the quality of our mine plan that we're executing against this year and how well in-sync it is with capital development spending bringing under control a lot of other costs related to camp and various things there.
It's just all adding up to the history of Kensington really in my view where we started with a mine that was four years ago quite a bit more chaotic than it is today.
It's very orderly and run very similarly sound in unchaotic way on a day-to-day basis right now.
And I think we're just really starting to see the benefits of that being reaped.
But big driver of the lower fuel costs and then just the way that we're the efficiency that we're seeing and executing the mine plan.
I would add a couple of things to that.
Maintenance costs have come down.
That's been a real area of focus up there this year.
We also took Frank's point about the more orderly way we're running things there.
We have gotten rid off so much equipment rental expense there that that the site was sort of reliant on external sources for all kinds of things during what was a pretty rough startup and now we've kind of absorbed that in and are running things in a way that I think is reflective of the cost and consistency now that we're seeing there.
Could you maybe I guess maybe provide percentage basis of what fuel represents of the total cost today? 13% of our cost at Kensington is represented by diesel.
Just to put a little more perspective on that we budgeted this year at $3.10 per gallon on that 13% cost.
And so far pricing has been around $2.21 per gallon.
So it gives you the sense of the scale and savings associated with diesel.
The next question comes from Michael Dudas from Sterne Agee.
Mitch some pretty good news out of Wharf.
Tell me what without having to go through the report which I didn't get a chance to look at yet some of the key drivers of how that report exceeded expectations and maybe some of the upside that we could see from that property going forward? Frank you want to take that.
Michael what upside are you thinking about there? I'm just thinking of you were talking about the extra added reserves and how much more drilling and how much more opportunity as you look out the next few years with the property? During due diligence before acquisition and then certainly after we started our process of evaluating the resources there.
And we've just implemented our standard protocols for geologic structural mapping geologic interpretation of the resources themselves.
So I'm making sure that we're accounting for those resources in proper domains.
Then we've taken just look at how the drill resolves over a long -- we really went back we did very deep dive in terms of the history out there which is long and took into account all the drill-hole results over a period of at least two maybe three decades up to and including recent times.
And how did that all fit within the geologic structural and domain concept and then just applied our block modeling techniques and we were able to come up with a very nice uplift in the number of resources that we could find there.
The last step is having our mining engineering people apply a mine plan and determine which of these blocks would be economic that we'd expect money out of it that the prices that we use.
And it held pretty true.
It held up.
And we feel that we'll not only be able to produce as we're predicting debt within our 5% reconciliation as we go forward so just a really good outcome but really nothing magical and we just implemented within that the methodology that we usually use to evaluate resources.
And then Mitch I know 15 months can't come soon off you guys up.
As you and the Board look at where pricing is and where the company is and you've done terrific job getting the cost where they are.
Do you see a sense that you need to -- what some of the levers that you can pull to get through maybe more elongated price decline if it does occur through the second half of the year not to impede your targets for 2017? Yes that's a very relevant question one we are talking about every day and night.
Well we have a lot of levers that we're always evaluating.
Our liquidity I'd said at quarter-end of $200 million.
We just got done the couple of weeks ago with the strategic planning process with our Board.
And in that exercise we were kind of focusing in on $15 and $1 100 set of price assumptions.
Those sort of prices -- cash doesn't move all that much between now and the end of the year.
I think we do hit our as I think we've said before kind of trough cash for us is kind of Q2 about this time next year before we start to see the trend really reverse itself.
With what we have taken out of 2016 in terms of capital at mostly at Rochester a little bit of Kensington a little bit of Palmarejo and then with some higher grade material that we've re-sequenced into 2016 out there at Rochester that makes a huge difference in terms of what that trough cash looks like.
Obviously prices take another leg down from here that trough cash starts to get pretty uncomfortable.
And then if we need to start enacting some of the other or pushing up some of these other levers whether it's slowing down at Rochester and getting the kick of some residual leach benefit there the Jualin and development up at Kensington that's about $30 million over the next 18 months or so that's really a capital project of our own timing and choosing.
And with cost running at Kensington in the mid-700s the urgency to get that higher grade ore out of Jualin and into the mine plant is less urgent when that mine is kicking off free cash flow kind of as is.
We've got some wiggle room there.
Obviously Joe asked earlier in the call about San Bartolomé in a lower price environment from where we are now that is something we need to take an honest look at under that assumption.
So I think the one thing that we won't do is change anything we're doing at Palmarejo.
That to me is the highest priority biggest impact capital deployment that we have that's taking cost from an all-in basis of north of 18 close to 10 by the time we get to the other side of the tunnel.
And that's worthy of continuing.
In fact the faster we can get there the better we'll all be.
And then just even to your point Mike on Wharf.
If you look at the kind of cash flow that's going to be kicking off in 2016 and beyond and as of for us that's a significant improvement and moves the needle on the liquidity discussion as well.
So we're thinking about all those things and we do everyday.
One more quick thing to add to that.
Mitch in his comments touched on our long-term debt and the patient capital structure.
And I would point out with that $100 million loan that we took on its 1% annual mandatory amortization there is a excess cash flow suite.
But in terms of just underscoring that patient capital the fact that we don't have mandatory amortization associated with that so it would be exception of that 1% which is $1 million a year.
So that positions us well to withstand in terms of calls on our cash flow as well.
The next question comes from Chris Terry from Deutsche Bank.
I just have a couple of questions on behalf of Jorge.
I know you've gone on about the cost already quite a bit but just sort of complete this picture.
Is there anything specific around consumables or reset of contracts on the mining side that's coming up in the near-term? I guess you focused a lot on what has happened on the cost side and how you've held wins just trying to say how far you can squeeze the lemon from here? And then just around the currency do you have an approximate number that you win on the currency generally given this South American assets? We'll take the second one first Peter Mexican peso.
Really the exposure there it's obviously worked very much in our favor.
Since the beginning of the year we budgeted it MXN13.25 and the current level is around MXN16.
So for us about half of our costs at Palmarejo are denominated in peso.
So the way we think about it is there's about $4 million pickup per 1 peso change so that our cost position is improving significantly as a result of that weakening peso.
And we've done nothing to hedge that or anything at this point.
Obviously we're beneficiaries of just riding with that currency level.
And to your first question I'll take a stab and then Frank of course chime in or Peter if anybody else has any thoughts on consumables.
Obviously we talked about diesel.
Cyanide is a big component of our costs there.
That's driven to a large extent by energy prices.
And if we see what some people are predicting there in terms of lower oil prices that you could have a tailwind effect on cyanide.
As we've seen some of the overall production levels globally for silver and gold decline refining treatment smelting charges we've done I think a good job there of trying to ratchet those down as much as possible.
Things like tires and I'm trying to think of other consumables we've seen some benefit as well there.
Frank what else do you see on the consumables front that I am forgetting? You caught the hard points.
I think grinding balls are another big consumable and we've been able to either hold good pricing flat or in the short-term gain pricing advantages other than that it's just across the whole theme of commodities.
We're very opportunistically looking for opportunities to look for purchase agreements to secure the lowest price as we possibly can on everything that we can get and add not too far out in the future but trying to keep those prices of the commodities down.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaip from BMO Capital Markets.
Look I've just got one question.
I know we've had a fairly healthy discussion on costs but I'm wondering about wage inflation or a lack there of ore or the capacity to actually move wages down.
I mean my sense is that you still got improvements on costs from consumable and from an operating standpoint from optimizing operations.
But I'm just wondering whether you're now thinking of wages coming down over the next couple of years given where metal prices are? Great question.
We just went through in Bolivia earlier this year the one mine where we do have a union and I think there was a government mandated increase there of what was it Keagan 11%.
That's right.
Is that where we ended up with about? Yes.
Just to put that in context I think the average wage we're paying there for a worker is something like $1 100 a month U.S.
You contrast that then with Kensington for example that's our highest cost labor pool where the average wage we're paying is probably a factor of eight times that.
A lot of that labor pool up in Alaska I can't remember Keagan is it like almost half comes from the lower 48 kind of fly-in fly-out.
And I do think that there is an opportunity there to your point Andrew on wages.
Nevada we're seeing probably supply and demand of the labor pool.
We're seeing more supply.
I mean the impact of things like Hycroft just down the interstate from Rochester has created a lot of inflow as far as people looking for work.
And where we are seeing some impact to the good is on benefits compensation programs to the extent that we can do more with less and take advantage of what is a little bit of a larger platform that we have now.
So we're able as we look into 2016.
We just went through the renewal programs for 2016 benefits and we found some real opportunities there.
But we've come so far over the last two years as a company the talent that we've been able to attract and really want to keep it in the continuity.
It's really important especially from the management ranks at each mine up that retaining talent and putting in place good incentive programs that encourage -- the things that are most important in terms of health and safety environment and cost and cash flow focus.
Those are some thoughts at least.
I don't know if that gives you anything Andrew to work with.
Frank anything from your perspective that I missed.
Frank's gone.
That's all we got Andrew.
I mean at this point in time I guess the answer is not yet but that's a lever that potentially come into play sort of longer-term if we continue to see low metal prices.
Yes without a doubt.
And if you look at Palmarejo right that was over 900 person operation a year or two ago when it was cranking out as many ounces as it could.
And as we transition to more well two underground mining that pool is going to shrink down to I think 700 or so.
And there was a lot of availability of talent and the labor force down there is much more heavy on the supply side than the demand side so we could start to see some wage relief I think as we move forward.
This is Frank and I have one more comment to add.
Andrew a year ago we were looking to building and ramping up one mine in Mexico Palmarejo and that was Guadalupe while we had a decline and we're building two now.
And net-net when we think back of the level of workers that we've had at that side over the years its going to come down substantially but it will still take quite a few people to operate two very large mines ultimately.
The next question comes from Arjun Chandar from JPMorgan.
Just a couple of questions from our side.
I guess first you mentioned in your prepared remarks a forecast to return to free cash flow positive in 15 months.
You've obviously done a lot on the cost side to bring cost down but what commodity price assumptions are you incorporating in that forecast? Are you running current slot levels or are you incorporating a bit of a recovery in gold and silver prices? That's kind of at or close to spot.
In my mind I'm thinking about the case that we're working through with the board last month where it was $15 and $1 100 which is a few dollars and a few pennies I guess above where we are now but obviously getting our cost all-in down into the low-14s is great and represents a huge step down from where this company has been historically but we need to do more.
And if there is one thing that I've seen over what's been I guess now 20 years with this company is that the planning and the scenario planning and the optimization of mine plans that never stops.
And as prices should they continue to grind down we'll continue to try and offset that through better mine planning and obviously targeting our drilling as we have on higher quality higher grade material.
Keep in mind here we go into the second half of the year again already and as we start working on -- well I guess the work has already started on our yearend reserves we've got 150 000 meters of drilling from the last 12 months that will go into yearend reserves.
And a lot of that is very successful and very focused on grade and quality.
Getting all that in to the drill databases and into the resource models and into the mine planning will give us a much clearer picture to as far as how we reposition and keep improving on those costs and trying to work against what's been kind of a falling knife in terms of prices.
And with regards to minimum liquidity I think you've mentioned historically $150 million to run the business.
And I know earlier during the Q&amp;A session you mentioned cash costing in Q2 of '16 based on your current forecast.
Do you still think that that's a necessary minimal liquidity number or do you think you can run the business a little bit leaner than that? Arjun its Peter Mitchell.
I quoted that number on the last conference call and it was really in the context of certainly the macro price environment where we are in as well as the CapEx plans that we had in front of us at that point.
As Mitch has mentioned with the deferral at Rochester of about $26 million in managing our CapEx as well as being pretty significantly advanced on Palmarejo at this point we can definitely dial that number back.
And there was no special magic in that number when I quoted it before.
I was just saying in light of the environment we're in and with our CapEx that buffer needed to be more significant but we can dial it back.
And I almost hesitate to quote a number but if I were to quote a number now I'd probably be sort of in the $100 million range.
But the reality is we will manage around that number tactically as the environment dictates as well.
But certainly we're comfortable with a slightly lower number than that given where we are right now and where we're managing so we've got plenty of headroom from a liquidity standpoint at this point.
And is there anything in either the credit agreement or the indenture for your senior notes that restrict you from entering into any streaming agreements? That would be a subordinated type arrangement so I don't think it would be a restriction but we would have to obviously see the specifics of the agreement itself.
And then finally you talked about your latest thoughts around potential asset sales including potentially core capital? We'll continue to always look at ways.
We can potentially monetize really anything that we have if the price is attractive enough.
In this climate prices typically aren't attractive enough especially when you're giving up return on cash flow.
And you mentioned core capital that's a $9 million or $10 million a year contributor to EBITDA for us.
So to give that up it would have to be obviously for the right economics.
But we are always looking at those things and that's kind of one of the levers that you always have to be looking at is working the free-ups and cash for monetizing something that makes you better off and continuing to own it yourself.
The next question comes from Craig Johnston from Scotiabank.
Just more of probably a question for Peter.
Just Peter wondering if you could just walk us through the accounting around the Paramount acquisition and just I noted the increase in deferred taxes on the balance sheet.
Just wondering if you could walk us through how that worked? And then just on that note looking at the payment of taxes in Mexico going forward kind of when you think you'd be paying taxes as well as kind of where you see it going forward in terms of tax payments? Paramount even though we acquired a public entity with stock we accounted for as an asset acquisition and really that's just sort of GAAP definition that it falls into given that it's not entity with inputs and outputs it's a development-stage property.
So we accounted for an asset acquisition.
In terms of the deferred income taxes it's really the deferred tax liability as a result of the acquisition of those mineral interests and the deferred tax obligation that that creates in the acquisition itself.
From a taxability standpoint in Mexico we are not taxable currently.
Modeling out we're probably going to see a need with a lift in commodity prices to elevate as into a significantly taxable position.
So it's hard for me to give dates as to when we'd become a cash tax payer in Mexico.
And then just on Wharf in terms of the mining cost.
I saw they are relatively high on a per ton basis but more related probably to year in an unloading phase.
Thinking in terms of kind of the cycle of that is it fair to assume you'd be into an unloading phase again maybe come Q1 next year and you'd see mining costs increase around then in a similar fashion? Yes.
Frank we just talked about that.
You want to cover that.
We've just completed an unload stage five out there Craig and have started the process have installed the new liner and we're now reloading that pad.
It's really the driver for the operating plan for the rest of the year where we're going to go over and campaign mine in the Golden Reward area taking advantage of some very good high-grade material which will all go on that stage five.
But I looked at the breakdown of our mining costs because we do have this pad loading and unloading function.
You don't really have the opportunity to see the breakouts of what that cost per ton is.
I can give you a couple of metrics to perhaps help you out.
Mining cost at least through recent period were like $2.27 a ton.
So that's your cost of mine ore and waste and get it either hauled off to waste dump or sent to a crusher to add for a leach pad.
We add to that pad loading costs unloading cost I'm sorry that will happen at the end of the lead cycle and that is $0.97.
So you've got to add the $2.27 and $0.97.
And then yes you do end up with a number north of $3 that looks kind of odd.
But if you back out the unloading cost it's pretty reasonable it's pretty typical with most opened pit operations.
The other side of the coin is the pad unloading and that is $0.66 a ton and that gets charged to the process cost which just contain the normal things of crushing getting the ore out on to the pad pit loading and contouring maintaining elevations and everything and all the costs of the reagents you saw and to leach the ore.
There is that $0.66 a ton.
So that's where you come in at $4 and I think some $0.50 somewhat per ton for processing.
And then there is something just a little bit about $2 per ton for G&amp;A.
So that's pad loading and unloading.
So we're always in some sort of a sequence or either loading or we're unloading.
And it's over a roughly eight to 12 months cycle.
So I don't know I haven't looked at the timing.
I'm not sure if it will be happening that way in the first quarter next year but certainly in the first half.
And I'd be happy to take a look at that if that timing would be if you need to know that that will be a useful thing to know.
The next question comes from Garrett Nelson from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
A couple of follow-up questions on CapEx.
Can you provide the CapEx assumptions that are embedded in the three-year outlook? And looking out to 2016 2017 it sounds like you're saying you're going to be flexible with spending plans depending on the price environment? And also what is Coeur's company-wide maintenance CapEx at this juncture? I'll start and you guys fill in what I miss.
But to just to take your second question first maintenance sustaining kind of $50 million to $60 million annually is a good number to use.
And as far as CapEx goes in the three-year guidance that we -- the three-year outlook that we put out in late June I think what it showed is in 2016 it was about $100 million.
And then 2017 since we're pushing some of that Rochester leach pad out of '16 into '17 I think the total number is around $120 million.
And I think our guidance for this year is right at $100 million.
So $100 million $100 million and then $120 million with about roughly half of that each year being that maintenance figure.
And those are the CapEx plans based on those precious metals price assumptions correct? That's right yes.
So in 2016 I'm sitting on top of that maintenance number is expansion capital related to Kensington and Jualin expansion capital related to Independencia and to the lesser extent Guadalupe.
And then in '17 we've got a little more Jualin.
You've got the big nut there at Rochester.
Those are the big chunks unless I'm forgetting something but that kind of give you a sense for what makes up those CapEx numbers and timing.
The next question comes from Ben Shen from Symphony Asset Management.
I just wanted to confirm when you gave the free cash guidance in late June I think I noted that it didn't include the annual interest payment.
So first of all can you confirm whether that's correct? And then when you say you expect to return to free cash flow positive in around 15 months is it also x the annual interest payment of around I think I calculated $45 million or is it inclusive? Those free cash flow numbers do include interest.
That's sort of a fully bate number all everything.
So when I say 15 months from now that's after interest any royalty payments and anything else but it's in both of those numbers.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mitch Krebs for any closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Well thanks everybody.
We appreciate your interest and your time and your questions.
Just a quick note 20 years ago this month I joined this company which sounds kind of bizarre just trivia average price for silver that month August of 1995 was $5.38 and the average price for gold in August of '95 was $383 an ounce so just to give you a perspective of how things change.
Anyway thanks again for your time today.
We look forward to speaking with you again in November.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Coeur Mining Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Bridget Freas.
Please go ahead.
Welcome everyone to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There are slides available on our website to accompany today's remarks.
Please review the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our latest 10-K and 10-Q for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made today.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Bridget and good morning everybody.
The earnings release we put out yesterday and the slides that go along with the call are both pretty self-explanatory and they both reflect what we think is a very solid quarter of performance by the company.
So far this year we've held about 100 individual meetings with existing stockholders potential investors and with the analysts that cover the company and it seems like there have been about four main takeaways we consistently hear.
The first one is that many are surprised to hear about the changes we've made to this company and almost everyone supports and applauds the strategy that we are pursuing to revamp the company.
The second takeaway is that many people say they want to see more evidence of our ability to actually execute the strategy.
The third thing is a lot of people say they are concerned about the debt on our balance sheet.
And then the fourth some express concern about the company's liquidity and how it would hold up that silver and gold prices remain weak.
For anyone who has been following us over the past couple of years and been listening to what we've been saying we do and comparing that to what we're actually doing the third quarter should help validate a lot of things.
These results should also go a long way toward addressing each of those investor takeaways I mentioned.
For those wanting to see more evidence of our ability to execute our strategy there is plenty to point to from the third quarter.
Take our costs for example if someone can show us a precious metals mining company that is reducing costs quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year more than us please tell us who it is our costs for silver equivalent ounce dropped 15% year-over-year and that's using a 60:1 ratio to calculate equivalent ounces.
If you use average realized prices to calculate equivalent ounces like most other companies our costs were $11 an ounce in the third quarter compared to around $14 an ounce a year ago.
On an all-in sustaining basis our cost declined 9% from the second quarter and dropped 17% year-over-year to just over $15 per silver equivalent ounce based on a 60:1 ratio.
Using average realized prices to calculate equivalent ounces our all-in sustaining costs were $13.14 per silver equivalent ounce in the third quarter.
If you go back to last year 2014 full year our all-in sustaining costs were $19.27 per ounce using that 60:1 ratio and they were $18.34 using average realized prices to calculate equivalent ounces.
Just drop one layer down for a second let's look at Palmarejo where we all know we have a lot of things going on there this year.
We bumped up our 2015 full-year production guidance and we dropped our cost guidance range for the full year.
We started the year with cost guidance of $16.25 to $17.75 per silver equivalent ounce at Palmarejo.
And now we're expecting that full year cost number to end up between $14 and $14.50 an ounce which is a reflection of how great the team at Palmarejo is doing and what we consider to be a big transitional year for the operation.
Compared to the second quarter Palmarejo's costs were down 14% and compared to last year's third quarter costs were down a whopping 21%.
We expect costs to decline further as we continue the transition to higher grade mining in two new underground deposits.
The first one is Guadalupe where we achieved an average mining rate of more than 1 700 tons per day in the third quarter and we expect to hit the 2 000 tons per day level by year-end.
And remember we only started mining Guadalupe a little less than a year ago.
And the second new underground deposit at Palmarejo is Independencia which was consolidated through the April acquisition with Paramount Gold and Silver and is located only about 800 meters away from Guadalupe.
There are two parts to Independencia Este and O-Este which is East and West.
The east part is the part of the deposit that Paramount controls and the west part is the much smaller part of the deposit located on our side of the old property boundary.
Putting together the two pieces made a ton of sense for obvious reasons and allows us to unlock value sooner from our part of the deposit.
The twin declines we are driving over to the Independencia deposit from Guadalupe are on-schedule.
We plan to start mining from there early next year and we will process the ore then back at the existing Palmarejo processing facility.
There are three things we love about Independencia Este number one is its grades are about 17% higher than Guadalupe.
The second is it's not subject to the existing Franco-Nevada gold stream so margins are expected to get an extra boost from that.
And number three is we're expected to get a lot bigger from further drilling.
And you probably saw we filed a new updated 43-101 technical report yesterday for Palmarejo which reflects this scenario of underground mining from Guadalupe in Independencia.
And I remember having these quarterly conference calls a couple of years ago when a big concern people had was whether Palmarejo had more than a couple of years of remaining reserves.
Now since that time reserves are up almost 20% despite lower prices and what we've mined since then and the average grade of silver is 32% higher and the average gold grade is 48% higher.
As you can see from the technical report in the press release we've put out late yesterday production is expected to be higher the mine life is now much longer costs are expected to be significantly lower and cash flows are anticipated to be much much higher over the next seven years even when using much lower silver and gold price assumptions.
This is all very exciting but it's still early days at Palmarejo in terms of the drilling we still need to do at both Guadalupe-Independencia and in that 800 meter gap in between those two deposits.
Now turning over to Rochester out in Nevada for a couple of minutes.
The investments we've made there over the last couple of years to scale up the mine are driving double-digit production growth and costs that are lower by double-digits.
We've dropped our full year guidance there as well down to $12.25 to $12.75 an ounce this year which means we are on-track for about 10% to 15% reduction in unit costs there compared to last year.
And we expect Rochester to produce about 4.7 million to 5 million ounces of silver and anywhere between 55 000 and 65 000 ounces of gold and that will be about 15% to 30% higher than last year.
The permits allowing us to construct a new leach pad out there in 2017 are moving ahead according to schedule and they are expected to be obtained in early 2016.
Another important expansion initiative out of Rochester has been increasing the crushing rates from the existing in-pit crusher unit that's now complete and that will give us a small kick here at the end of 2015 and should make a big difference in 2016 and beyond.
If you just look at the slides that we've posted for this call and look at Slide 12 that summarizes Rochester and the costs on a per ton basis going back over the last four quarters or so and you can see the trends there.
They are doing a really great job out there at Rochester and hopefully there will be more to come going forward.
Just for a couple of minutes we'll talk about Kensington up in Alaska.
You'll note the cost did bump up there a bit in the third quarter but the trend has been a good one.
And we reduced the cost guidance there also for the full year.
We came into the year with guidance on costs for Kensington of $900 to $975 an ounce and now we see the full year coming in somewhere in the low $800s and that would be over $100 an ounce lower than they were last year.
The big story at Kensington is the nearby high grade Jualin deposit where development got going in early August.
They are now about 700 feet in and we'll start drilling Jualin from underground this winter to hopefully expand it and better define the one vein out of five that contains no resources that carrying average grade that's 3X the grade of Kensington's current reserves.
And then finally last but not least the Wharf in South Dakota that operation is really coming on strong in the second half of the year.
We reduced our full year cost guidance there too for the full year down to $700 to $750 an ounce.
You'll note maybe that Wharf was the biggest generator of cash flow of any of our mines in the third quarter.
And if you look at those same slides in the slide provided if you go along with the call I think it's Slide 14 show worst cost per ton those are definitely heading down and in the right direction as well.
Since we acquired work in February from Gold Corp for about $100 million we've announced a 39% increase in reserves we've extended the mine life we increased the annual production profile in the mine plan and we generated nearly $20 million in free cash flow over the last two quarters.
So not a bad acquisition at all.
Regarding that investor takeaway relating to concerns over the leverage we have on the balance sheet we did announce yesterday in the earnings release that we're reducing our total debt by about $54 million which is about 10%.
The company has about $433 million of publicly traded unsecured notes 7% 8% interest that have been trading at a huge discount to par going back to about July.
And so we took advantage of the opportunity just presented to take a big bite of our outstanding debt at a 24% discount.
Now we don't like using shares to eliminate debt but with about $4.5 million of annual interest savings and with an opportunity to retire $54 million of debt.
At $0.76 on the dollar it was too good of an opportunity to pass up and that makes our stockholders better off.
As a result of this net debt is expected to drop 16% percent down to $287 million.
And when you compare that net debt level to our EBITDA which has been running between $30 million and $35 million a quarter the last two quarters we believe our credit leverage ratios are heading in the right direction especially given that we expect EBITDA to keep growing and the fact that 98% of our remaining debt doesn't mature for another four to five years.
The last investor takeaway I mentioned earlier relates to liquidity concerns.
Now we all know metals prices in the third quarter were the lowest we've seen in about six years but yet our company's cash balance data about the same compared to the end of June at around $206 million.
So I'd say we're doing a really good job of managing our liquidity.
And as I've said now for about the past 18 months our investments in these different initiatives that reminds design to drive down our cost structure are the heaviest through the middle of next year at which point we expect cash to start to build.
So there you have it good results.
There is one other piece of investor feedback from all those meetings we've had this year that I didn't mention and that is that this company appears to be nearing a pretty significant inflection point.
And I totally agree with that piece of feedback we definitely are.
And as that point draws near we anticipate putting up more quarters like the third quarter and keep doing what we're doing.
At some point equity markets will notice the long-term value that is being created for stockholders of this company.
Until then we'll stay focused on the things we can control on executing our strategy on continually improving the business on carefully managing our liquidity and on being opportunistic when we think it's in our stockholders best interest.
We believe that inflection point is right around the corner and we definitely can't wait to get there.
And now we'd be happy to take any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Dudas of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen Bridget.
Hi Mike.
Hi.
Mitch.
First on the Palmarejo release.
Maybe you or Frank talk about like what really surprised you in the work that you did relative to what you had thought? And I guess on top of that some of the - when we can expect some of those drilling results that you talk about the kind of tighten up the two different zones? Yes I'll just make one plug and then the Frank I'll turn it over to you.
We are going to have a host of teaching up in Toronto next - I think next week to sit down and spend some time going through the technical report because there are a lot of changes lot of moving parts in what has been a very dynamic asset for us.
And included in that will be a good overview of the exploration results that we've been having and how that kind of fits into the longer term profile and priorities at Palmarejo.
But Frank do you want to answer Mike's question about big surprises or… Sure.
Mike this is Frank.
The things that I thought were very good surprises in our work related to the technical report or how well the research itself stood up to lower prices.
We've got a range of prices that we tested sensitivity on and even at close to spot prices today it's a very strong resource producing good grades from both Guadalupe and Independencia looking forward over the next seven and part of an eight year.
That's something that really instills a good sense of confidence in the fact that we've improved our resource model down there through more focused drilling and better applied engineering and quality controls.
And it makes for a pretty good life of mine at this point.
The cost also are well within - were pretty close to what we expected but I can tell you in the process of developing this technical or capital was reduced substantially as we continue to optimize the development meters that were going to go into both mines and so on.
So I feel like it's pretty reasonable capital over the while as well and my virtual fact will be running an underground mine.
Underground mining unit costs are higher than they are in the open pit but the volumes and materials are moved much slower.
So it will be a significant reduction going forward and bulk dollars being spent as we operate every day.
Thanks.
I'll look forward to the details next week.
On Wharf I hope you can find a few more acquisitions like what you did with Wharf.
But maybe if you talk a little bit about some of the positive cost divergences that you're seeing there and the sustainability of such? I can take that one as well and they just continue the performance they have although you do see a slight reduction in this most recent quarter benefiting at work from lower fuel prices and lower maintenance costs so is a big theme there.
We were able to get through this most recent quarter and then save quite a bit of money on maintenance.
In fact if I were just to make a comment about our cost and general across all of our mines the general things that we see here significant labor reductions in Mexico at Palmarejo.
We are benefiting from some reduction in cost on fuel we're seeing tremendous power cost savings in Mexico at time as well.
Our haulage cost are down substantially at both Palmarejo and Rochester due to some pretty strategic re-routing of haul roads and a reduction in the amount of ways it has to be moved to Palmarejo.
Now we've been real focused on maintenance this year and we're starting to see the benefits of that at each one of our mines.
That hard work is really showing paying off.
My final quick question if you Mitch is I know you may have a bunch of investors and ounce as such but you've also done some travel relative to the silver industry.
You have a couple of thoughts on what your expectations what you're seeing out there? Some trends positive or negative relative to silver offtake? Yes I think a big takeaway on the supply side for silver is after about a dozen years of continual increases every year and where our mine supply that trend is now reversing itself.
And over the next five or ten years we're expecting to see silver supply - global silver supply come down pretty extensively and obviously that's a combination of existing mines depleting our reserves no new projects to speak off and built unless exploration going into the ground so fewer new discoveries.
So that's a big trend I think on the supply side but that's positive and that - I guess all that surprising just given what's happened in silver prices over the last few years.
On the demand side you guys have probably all read about the tightness in like coins that's been a big attention and headline grabber.
It just seems like there is a nearly insatiable appetite for silver eagles and even - whether it's in Canada Austria Perth all these meant on allocation now for metal and for coin sales.
I'd say one of the bigger trends on the industrial demand side which makes up about 60% of total demand for silver now is solar panels have become a real interesting component of the overall demand picture.
When we go back a decade and it is less than a million ounces of silver than that went into solar panels each year.
And this year that's scheduled to be about 65 million or 70 million ounces of silver going into those panels themselves.
And if you believe what China India and even with the clean power plan here proposed by the Obama administration in our transition here in the U.S.
to more renewable sources of power.
You add up all those new Gigawatts of PV installations and each new gigawatt consumes about 2.8 million ounces of silver.
You start doing the math and you can really quickly get to a point where solar becomes kind of like what 35 millimeter film used to be for silver where it was kind of solid one-third of total demand each year year-in and year-out.
So that's been an interesting one that I've learned a lot more about here over the last few months.
Thanks.
Mitch I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Joseph Reagor of ROTH Capital Partners.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys and congrats on a great quarter.
Hey Joe thanks.
So couple questions on the cost front I guess you guys discussed a lot about how costs have come down but I guess maybe for our benefits can you provide a little bit more color as to what you guys have done to reduce costs? I know that you guys have been against essentially high-grading your minds now because obviously that room is a long-term view on them.
But maybe some of the other things you guys have done to take it cost down as well as you have? Yes I'll start and anybody else here can chime in.
I think of cost Joe in four or five different buckets one being - what are the things outside our control that are - have been kind of gummies for us that will obviously take but we really haven't done anything to earn them.
And in that category are things like Frank mentioned diesel.
Mexican peso has been a good tailwind although most companies seem to have more international operations and we do most of our operations here in the U.S.
So we don't have as much of an FX benefit as maybe some.
The second benefit - sorry the second bucket of cost that I think about are sort of just like the dollar hard dollar savings and those have been in areas like labor.
Frank mentioned our headcount at Palmarejo as we've transition and keep transitioning away from the open pit has come down a lot.
The maintenance cost Frank mentioned the power at Palmarejo which is a huge component of the of our cost freights up at Kensington those kind of things that are just pure dollar savings and while those are great and we've definitely been aggressively pursuing those those have limits you can't couple it quarter-in and quarter-out forever.
And that's where I get more excited about the other two or three buckets; the first being coming from grade the next one coming from scale and then the third one coming from processing related enhancements and that's really for us the next wave of - that's going to deliver cost reductions for us.
For us grade for example; we haven't even gotten into Independencia yet and that's where some of that real grade kick is going to come home at Palmarejo and really drive those costs down even further.
In terms of scale we're just invested like I mentioned in expanding that pressure capacity out of Rochester that higher scale and the volume efficiencies that come along with things like that that's going to be another - give us another wave of opportunity on the cost front.
And then Frank and his team on the processing side - when you look at those Palmarejo recoveries in the third quarter that stems from a lot of hard work a lot of effort there is some more tweaks to be done in 2016 2017 that can give us some more benefit there.
We're looking at some opportunities at San Bartolomé to improve recoveries to the addition of some oxygen into the processing plant there to hopefully boost recoveries and that's - I mean those are the sweet - kinds of kickers to cost in terms of more capital or no capital every 2% 3% 4% 5% on recoveries makes a huge huge difference in terms of unit costs and cash flows.
Frank I probably just stole 100% of your thunder there.
Yes.
I don't know what more to say.
Does that help Joe? Does that give you the kind of color you are hoping to get? Yes.
That is very helpful.
Kind of like following on one of your points there the Palmarejo recovery improvements looking at the report filed overnight it seems to suggest recovery rates of roughly like 86% 87% for silver and gold going forward which are kind of somewhat in line with what you guys got in Q3.
My thought would be though that the report was worked on before the improvements in Q3.
So could those estimates that are in the filed report be a bit light and be more driven by great improvement than they were by processing improvement? Joe what you will find you need to go in and look in Section 22 in our economic analysis and you will see that for the years 2017 and beyond we bumped those recovery rates up.
Between now and 2017 - well for 2016 we kept the recoveries pretty close to where we're at right now because we've actually - we're going to be putting some capital into our process plant in the area of the Merrill-Crowe'rea that is going to raise the recovery up but it doesn't actually become effective until rather late next year.
So we will start to see the benefits of that in 2017 and beyond.
So you will see our gold and silver recoveries ratcheting up in 2017 and beyond roughly 2% to 3% above where we're at right now.
Another thing I was thinking of listening to Frank is that is a 6000 ton a day processing facility down there and as we transition to lower grade higher tons the retention time in that process down there is only going to help as well as relating to recoveries.
And the cleaner ore coming out of Guadalupe is definitely a help when thinking about the recovery rates going forward.
Okay.
And then one final one.
Could you just give us an update on what you guys are thinking as far as M&amp;A? On the last call you said you thought you were pretty much done with it for the time being.
Have you seen any interesting opportunities come across that might make you change that course of action and look to make some other investments or do you think all of your investing right now is going to be into your own properties? Where we come at that from is what we have inside our Company right now should derive a tripling of our EBITDA over not very long and I don't want us to distract ourselves away from delivering that.
That is the best way to drive value for the Company and its stockholders.
But that said if an opportunity came along that could kind of accelerate that ramp-up in cash flow and reduce our costs and improve - or enhance our overall portfolio in some way we need to take a look at those.
I would say the level of inbounds that we're getting on M&amp;A has picked up probably more on the earlier stage stuff.
The companies that don't have production or cash flow and have a cash balance that is getting closer and closer to zero and those kinds of companies are interested in doing something.
For us that doesn't necessarily achieve those objectives and enhance our strategy at all.
So it has to be a pretty special opportunity like Wharf and those - there's not a lot of those out there.
I think this flow of non-core assets out of the majors is probably about run its course.
I don't think there is going to be a ton of that continuing into 2016.
So we will keep going.
The bar is set high as far as what we consider and keep our priority on everything that we have going on because our plate is pretty full.
Our next question comes from Chris Thompson of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
I have a number of quick questions just on the operations.
We will start off with Palmarejo.
Can you give us a little bit of color as to the status of the open pit there? Are you going to squeeze another quarter out of this or do you definitely see this shutting down by the end of this year? This is Frank.
Yes we're still planning on seeing the open pit come to a close at the end of December this year.
At this point we're mining in the Tucson Chapa TL [ph] area.
It is what I would describe as a slot cut now part of the pit very narrow.
It has become so narrow that we have had to go away from using 777 haul trucks and our direct shovels to - the mining equipment that was used over Guadalupe earlier this year these 740 articulating capital - Caterpillar trucks and single loader operation in there.
So it is definitely - we're getting down to the bottom.
Starting I guess go back about six months ago we nearly had three benches to mine through.
We're on the second one now and the third one is signed at the end of the year.
Just moving on then to Rochester.
Looking at the grades at Rochester - the silver grades here plus 20 gram per ton better than what you have delivered year to date.
Again do you see that sort of extending through to next year? What should we be modeling as far as the silver grades? The grades have been pretty good this year.
They will be roughly equivalent next year maybe declining towards the later end of next year all tied to the mine plan and the different benches that we will be on but it is going to hold fairly close to where we're at.
And then on to Kensington very quickly the unit costs at Kensington our records show they are slightly higher this quarter than they were previously in previous quarters of the year.
Is this something we should be modeling mainly using the Q3 as a good sort of representation of what we should be looking at as far as unit costs for the remainder of next the year and into next? Chris costs went up slightly in the third quarter due to a number of different - several major component rebuilds that were required on the underground mining fleet at Kensington.
So those are done.
Those are behind us.
We will start the new cycle where we move forward without that happening.
So it will come up again in some future quarter but we're good through the end of the year and a good ways into next year before we have to do more of that.
And then finally at Wharf Frank going [indiscernible] obviously we're seeing sort of that layering in with effect to - as far as good grades in that.
Just remind us again what is the mine plan for that Golden Reward? When do you see that wrapping up and can we expect this sort of contribution on a quarter by quarter basis into next year? No.
We resumed mining in Golden Reward in August right after we had completed a re-line on Pad #5 at Wharf and started to load that pad.
We're mining Golden Reward very close - come close up to the Thanksgiving holiday where we have to back out of there then because it is going to start to snow and the ski season is going to begin and so on.
So we will be back in there to mine the residual probably in the late second quarter next year and we will get it finished up by midyear next year.
Our next question comes from Craig Johnston of Scotiabank.
Please go ahead.
I will keep it quick.
There has been a lot of questions so far but just on Palmarejo revision of guidance for 2015 even with that revision it seems like you are being relatively conservative.
Just wondering if you could speak to expectations for Q4 and then maybe even into next year.
Yes.
This is Frank.
I will take that one.
We're expecting - first of all we have had a good year because of some bonus grade that has come out of the open pit in some of these ventures that we're mining to complete the open pit.
We have also had some very good grade come out of the underground workings at Palmarejo.
Now that is scheduled to come to a close with Palmarejo underground at some point next year.
But the open pit will be done in December.
We're expecting to see some good ounces come out of that open pit in November and then very strongly in December but then the open pit will be down at that point.
We have also had the - our production performance is fueled to a large degree by this most recent ramp-up at Guadalupe.
Our tons are going up and we have been producing some very good silver and decent gold rates over there.
So it all adds up.
We continue into next year to ramp up Guadalupe so those benefits will continue and bring up the open pit to a close by the end of this year and then continue to mine underground at Palmarejo through at least midyear next year.
It is Mitch.
Just one thought to add to that.
You think about the fourth quarter probably being pretty similar to the third quarter but then the real break comes as we like Frank said we end the open pit and then there will be a step down in that tonnage.
Like Frank said we will have some underground from the old Palmarejo.
The bulk of the ore coming out of the Guadalupe - the bulk of the ore going to the mill in 2016 will be Guadalupe and around that 2000 tons a day.
And then the big X-factor becomes Independencia then as we get going there from a standing start early next year and ramp that up throughout the year.
So it will be a very different looking year next year compared to this year which is kind of all part of this transition that we've talked about and seem to be doing a really good job of executing.
And Frank and his team there have done a great job.
I would say we're ahead of plan there as far as the mining rate and - out of Guadalupe and everything that is going on as it relates to getting over to Independencia is going really well too.
So they are juggling a lot of balls down there and the team is doing a really good job keeping them all in the air.
And just on the technical report I know we all understand that technical reports are a moment in time and they are always changing and mine plans are changing.
Can you just give us a sense of how much of the technical report you think is not written in stone but more of an absolute? Maybe is it 2016 or do you even see potential changes to your mine plan in 2016 depending on your drilling results and what you see as you go deeper? I think the big changes that we will see in - you know you figure that technical report plan is a good base where there is real opportunity as I see it and as we I think all see it is probably first and foremost in Guadalupe and drilling deeper there and then further to the south and east and having some of that really nice grade - much higher grade inferred and even some stuff that is not inferred yet getting that drilled out and into the mine plan at those kind of grades is really to me the biggest change or extra to that base plan that is reflected in the TR.
I would say then a close second to that would be a somewhat similar theme over in Independencia where that is open depth in both to the North and West as well as a bit to the South and East.
There is a bit of a gap in there between what used to be the Paramount piece of Independencia and our part of Independencia that we're really looking forward to drilling out and hopefully flow that in.
And then the stuff that Hans will talk more about up in Toronto next week in terms of some additional structure and in between those two deposits in between Guadalupe and Independencia that probably a little bit later down the road in 2018 and beyond but both I think are going to be become then another very prevalent piece of the mix as we think about what that mine looks like in a seven-year kind of four on for the next 10 or 20 years hopefully.
Okay.
No that makes sense.
Thanks guys.
And then just on corporate G&amp;A with the guidance being lowered to $33 million to $35 million thoughts on guidance going into 2016 and beyond? Are these the levels you want them to be at or could you see them going even lower? Well we keep squeezing.
The topic of very frequent conversation around here and kind of like one of my comments I made earlier about there is some kind of cost where there is a limit.
And also I feel like there is - you have to be careful what you ask for in G&amp;A because you can cut too far and really do harm to the business in terms of the ability to manage and mitigate risk and do the solid planning and execution like we're seeing at this Company.
Is there more to go on G&amp;A here? Yes but if you go back two years and start at $55 million and now be guiding to what is it $33 million I think we're doing a really good job there.
We have not shied away from being very forward leaning on G&amp;A and we're taking that same attitude into the budgeting process here as we start getting real serious about what 2016 looks like for G&amp;A.
Our next question comes from Chris Terry of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Well done on a good quarter operation.
I just had two more high-level questions.
Just in terms of the debt for equity that you have just accomplished if there was more of those type of situations that become available would you be interested in doing more of that or does it really depend on where commodity prices track from here? And then the second question I had was just around heading into 2016 and 2017 I think in a previous presentation you had some quite broad guidance on silver and equivalent ounces for 2016 and 2017 that relates to the technical report in the last day.
How has that changed at all or would that still be the relevant guidance? Thanks.
Peter do you want to start with the-? Yes.
Certainly in terms of our equity for debt exchange 389 we're able to do it as a result of securing a waiver from our Term Loan B lenders and that the amount of that waiver was $100 million.
So we would be able to do it in the future but it is going to be very opportunity driven certainly predicated on pricing as you highlight predominant metal prices where we're in that regard and we would evaluate it on a case-by-case basis specifically.
And as far as the outlook that we gave in terms of production earlier this year and how that has changed at all with the technical report we're not updating or revising any outlooks right now.
We will likely do that in the early part of next year and kind of refresh that outlook as it relates to both production and the cost and the cash flow kind of that three-year outlook that we have put out.
I would say obviously we're ahead of plan on a lot of these things especially on the costs.
You look at where we're relative to some of those ranges in that three-year outlook and we're already there to a certain extent on 2016.
So we will carry that through into an update that we will likely do in the first couple of months of 2016.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mitch Krebs for any closing remarks.
Well thanks for your time and questions.
Good quarter.
We will keep doing more hopefully and look forward to talking to you early in 2016.
Thanks again for your time.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the Coeur Mining Incorporated fourth quarter and yearend 2015 financial results conference call and webcast.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Rebecca Hussey Senior Analyst Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings conference call.
There are slides available on our website to go along with today's remarks.
Please review the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our latest 10-K for risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made today.
Mitch please go ahead.
Thanks Rebecca and good morning everybody.
We appreciate the opportunity to talk to you about our 2015 results and give you a brief company update.
I'll start with a few takeaways from our perspective and then we can open it up for questions.
Probably the biggest takeaway we see is how we're delivering industry-leading cost reductions.
Cost continued to decline by large percentages and at a very rapid rate.
Our full year 2015 all-in sustaining cost of $14.32 per realized silver equivalent ounce was down 22% compared to 2014 and down 30% compared to 2013.
Third quarter and fourth quarter all-in sustaining costs were in the mid-$13s that's a far cry from nearly $20 an ounce just a couple of years ago and even more impressive when you consider the fact that we're not benefiting nearly as much from weaker foreign currencies like most of our non-U.S.
peers are.
These cost reductions weren't just limited to operating costs.
Our G&amp;A was down 20% last year and over 40% compared to just two years ago.
These lower costs together with higher production levels resulted in significantly higher cash flow last year.
Overall production was up due to the acquisition of the Wharf gold mine last year and due to quality production growth at our Rochester and Kensington mines.
The company's full year operating cash flow doubled to $114 million and full year EBITDA was $101 million up 19% over 2014 despite significantly lower prices last year.
Another takeaway from our perspective is how our liquidity remained at a very comfortable level through yearend despite the heavy investments we're making to drive down cost even further.
Cash and equivalents remained right around $200 million which is quite a bit higher than where I think many of you expected it to end the year and as a result of effective cost controls and working capital management.
Since 70% of 2016 estimated CapEx of $90 million to $100 million is expected to take place during the first half of this year we expect our cash to decline before starting to build during the second half of the year.
The main drivers of the expected positive free cash flow are the lower second half CapEx rising production rates from the higher-grade higher-margin Independencia deposits at Palmarejo and the end of the old Franco-Nevada gold royalty at Palmarejo.
With cost down cash flow up declining debt levels and cash holding steady our leverage levels and ratios have come down a lot.
Just nine months ago our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 4.2x.
It's now at 2.9x and following as these trends all continue.
What's driving this strong performance is the solid execution of the many important initiatives taking place at our five mines.
I'll give you a quick update on a few of them.
The transition of Palmarejo is continuing as planned thanks to solid planning and a great team.
2015 ended on a positive note especially given all the moving parts as we simultaneously transitioned to two new higher-grade underground mines and away from an open pit mine and an old underground mine.
We are now mining the Independencia deposit about 800 meters away from the Guadalupe mine a littler sooner than expected.
As you'll recall we consolidated ownership of Independencia last year when we acquired Paramount Gold and Silver and we think it's going to be a terrific new source of ore for us at Palmarejo for many years to come.
Meanwhile mining rates over at Guadalupe averaged about 1 700 tons per day during the fourth quarter and should average around 2 000 tons per day during 2016.
Overall production levels at Palmarejo are expected to decline throughout this year as we accelerate mining rates at Independencia up to about 1 000 tons per day by yearend.
Palmarejo's capital expenditures should total around $40 million this year which is close to half the company's total expected CapEx.
Most of this investment of Palmarejo was to facilitate the underground development at Guadalupe and Independencia that we need to achieve the targeted production levels that should allow us to drive costs down even further and lead to strong free cash flow on the back of those higher grades.
They're still scraping a little bit of ore out of the pit here in February but that should wrap up this quarter and mining from the old Palmarejo underground should end by September.
As we saw in the fourth quarter with such a big drop in tons milled due to lower open pit mining rates Palmarejo's production levels and unit costs are expected to improve during each quarter of 2016 as we build mining and milling rates back up from higher margin underground mining at Guadalupe and Independencia.
One last point on Palmarejo.
It's worth pointing out what the team there has done in the processing area to boost recovery rates.
A full 15% higher silver recovery rate and a full 10% higher gold recovery rate from a year ago along with all the other changes to Palmarejo taking place those higher recovery rates should make a big difference going forward.
Out in South Dakota the Wharf acquisition has been a terrific addition to the company.
We owned it for 10 months in 2015 after paying about $100 million in cash for it.
The mine ended 2016 with a very solid fourth quarter.
Gold production was up 38% to 32 000 ounces costs were down 20% to $570 an ounce and free cash flow was $17 million just in the fourth quarter.
In fact free cash flow totaled $29 million during the 10 months of the year that we owned and operated the mine.
Wharf looks to be set up for a great 2016.
Over 90 000 ounces of gold is expected to be produced at cost in the low-$700s and only $8 million of expected CapEx.
It should be an important and steady source of cash flow for the company this year.
Up in Alaska Kensington had a record year in 2015.
It delivered consistent operating performance throughout the year resulting in gold production of 126 000 ounces at cost of $798 per ounce.
So far we've spent $8 million on development of the Jualin deposit.
And according to our PEA we've put out in April of last year we anticipate spending another $20 million to $25 million until we start mining from Jualin next year.
The underground development work in Jualin was started last August and now has advanced a little over 2 000 feet.
We expect to encounter the Jualin ore body once we've advanced about 7 000 feet.
So we're almost 30% of the way there.
Drilling stations are now being prepared underground there to facilitate an extensive drilling program of about 40 000 feet on Jualin this year to try and upgrade the resource and hopefully expand the size of the deposit.
We expect Kensington to have a similar year in 2016 in terms of production and operating cost.
CapEx there this year is expected to be a little higher about $30 million mostly for underground development at both Jualin and at Kensington in order to access higher-grade ore that sets up Kensington to achieve an even further drop in cost and to realize strong and consistent free cash flow.
At Rochester out in Nevada we expect the investments we've made to scale up the operation and drive down unit costs to really start paying off.
Over the past three years we've invested about $50 million in larger mining equipment in more crushing capacity and in several other areas intended to make Rochester a more efficient operation.
We've now nearly doubled Rochester's mining and crushing rates and we've reduced mining cost per ton by over 40%.
We're starting to see the impact of these efforts production in 2015 was up 13% over 2014 and cost per ounce were down by 18%.
This year in 2016 we plan to mine and stack close to 20 million tons out on our existing leach pad almost double from 2012 when we started this transition at Rochester and up about 20% compared to this last year.
This should lead to even higher production rates and lower costs this year compared to 2015.
We're now starting to receive permits for the next leach pad expansion scheduled to take place in 2017 and we expect to receive the record of decision from the BLM in the next month or two.
Our strategy at San Bartolomé to leverage our unique processing facility to purchase and process higher-grade ore from throughout Bolivia is really having an impact.
Almost 30% of our ounces in the fourth quarter came from these third-party purchases of higher-grade material which helped us drop cost to levels we haven't seen there in years.
We think we can keep up this level of ore purchases during 2016 which should help San Bartolomé generate solid cash flow.
Switching gears slightly I want to briefly mention what's happening on the exploration front.
Slide 17 in the materials we've provided summarize some of the highlights.
Last year over 90% of our exploration dollars were focused on adding higher grade ounces around our existing mines where the success rates are higher and the payback is quicker.
We have some promising targets that we identified and drilled in 2015 and have more exploration planned this year.
At Guadalupe we discovered the widest highest grade mineralization to date in deeper areas of Guadalupe.
We'll be starting a 10 000 meter drilling program there later this quarter.
And then in between Guadalupe and Independencia we have two new discoveries called Los Bancos and Nación that will also receive more drilling this year.
We've identified and drilled a new high-grade silver-gold zone at Rochester called East Rochester which is located only about 300 meters from the existing pit which we'll evaluate further in 2016.
And as I mentioned we plan to begin underground drilling at Jualin up at Kensington later this quarter.
Now Jualin is a series of five mill veins stacked on top of each other.
Existing resource is on number 4 which will receive the majority of the drilling dollars here in 2016.
But we also plan additional drilling on the number 5 vein which we've already drilled but do not yet have a resource on it.
One other thing I want to quickly mention before we open it up to Q&amp;As are yearend reserves which we put out yesterday as well.
We used prices of $15.50 for silver and $1 150 for gold for the next two years and then we use longer-term prices thereafter of $17.50 for silver and $1 250 for gold.
Last year at the end of 2014 we used $19 for silver and $1 275 for gold.
As of the yearend gold reserves rose 33% compared to a year ago to about 2.4 million ounces mostly due to the addition of Wharf.
Our silver reserves decline from 281 million ounces down to 156 million ounces because we reclassified La Preciosa's 119 million ounces of silver from reserves to resources.
Palmarejo's reserves increased the most of all of our operations a 46% increase in its silver reserves and a 41% increase in its gold reserves.
Interestingly over 60% now of the company's silver equivalent total reserves are now located in the U.S.
and about 90% are located in North America.
There is a good slide in today's materials Slide 11 that shows the growth in reserves and grades at Palmarejo over the last two years since we started down the path of remaking that operation.
Palmarejo silver and gold reserves are up a lot as I mentioned which is due both to the success of our exploration efforts as well as due to the paramount acquisition.
But it's the average grade of those reserves that I think is worth pointing out.
Over this two year period of time our average silver grade at Palmarejo is up 33% and the average gold grade is up 49%.
Together with the end of the old Franco-Nevada gold royalty in a few months this all bodes really well for Palmarejo's future and the kind of cost and cash flow we expect from this important operation which in turn should help drive our company's cost down even further than they've already dropped and lead to strong cash flow for a long time to come.
With that then let's go ahead and open it up for any questions that you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Michael Dudas from Sterne Agee CRT.
Couple of thoughts.
One on Jualin as you move through to get towards the ore body you mentioned its 2 000 and you have total of 7 000.
Is that total or is that left to go? I couldn't understand what you were saying? That's 7 000 total and we've gone 2 000 of that 7 000.
How comfortable you are with mining labor capacity and such as you get to -- once you get to your target is there -- are we set there or do we still have more work to do? Frank? Mike we will be buying.
We plan to balance out our existing work force to work both at Kensington mine grade and then Jualin.
We're not anticipating any headcount increases.
And maybe a little more light on the Bolivia profile.
I mean that's kind of interesting how you're getting some of this work.
Could you maybe give a little more color on how that's occurring and how sustainable that might be given some of the situations that's going on in that country? Yes we're fortunate in that our oxide facility there is really the only one of its kind in Bolivia.
We've always focused more on just mining of the material off of the Cerro Rico Mountain itself.
But when we looked around last year and the phase of lower prices and thought about ways that we can adjust to allow San Bartolomé to make positive cash flow even at lower prices turning sort of outward and looking throughout the country for sources of ore who lack that processing capacity where we could pay a lower rate than what it takes for us to mine off of the mountain and boost our overall grade made a lot of sense.
So we put together the resources there on the ground the team that conducts these ore purchases and we blend in and stockpile at the plant.
And overall recoveries have not been affected.
The overall grade has gone up.
And as a result you've seen these costs now go down by a pretty healthy amount.
And like you can see there in the first three quarters of the year cost were quite a bit higher than the fourth quarter when we really got going in earnest on this initiative just maintaining what we did in the fourth quarter throughout this year than we think is sustainable.
And as you know Bolivia is a very well-endowed country in terms of its geology so we think that there is plenty more to continue to do.
We'll be careful in terms of how much we do to make sure that we're blending and mixing way that maximizes the plants efficiency.
But we think we're onto something there that will help put San Bartolomé back into the category of being a net cash flow contributor to the company.
And final thoughts certainly you've been managing well the cost and the grades throughout the organization and given where prices for gold and silver been the last few months and second half of last year not so much last month or so are you thinking different about how you're managing the business as you get closer to the cash flow generation cliff that we're getting through in the second of the year in an environment of higher price different prices? Is there a change in focus or thought maybe of what's next? It's fun in price environments like we're seeing recently to start thinking a little bit differently compared to the grind of the last couple of years.
But we keep reminding ourselves that the absolute -- number one priority for all of us is to see all of these initiatives through and really get to that kind of strong free cash flow outlook that we've been talking about now for the last really two or three years as we put all of this different pieces in place the people in place.
We really don't want to fall short on what we can see here this company being able to do on a sustained basis.
So we got to keep the focus ahead of us on these very tangible kind of initiatives that we've been focus on now for the last couple of years and see it through and that's really no change to how we're running things.
We got to get cost down cash flow up and maintain it.
Our next question will come from Jessica Fung from BMO Capital Markets.
Just a few questions couple of a little detail.
So the recoveries at Palmarejo improved pretty well last quarter.
Can you give us some more details on what exactly was undertaking at the plant to achieve these recoveries? Frank? There's several different things that we've accomplished.
We're still optimizing the blending process on the front-end of the mill facility.
At this point we're doing it based on the increase in metallurgical knowledge on all the different ore streams that come in with established met testing programs on ores that we're producing today and we'll be producing in the future.
So we just optimize the blend with the objective of maximizing plant recovery that's one element.
The second is in the Merrill-Crowe part of the mill flow sheet we've increased capacity and we have improved recoveries in that circuit sizes those gold and silver ounces passed through there they're just one step away from being in the product that we ship with improved performance there.
And then the third is that we've introduced we had converted in 2014 converted the CIL circuit which is a pulp leaching circuit that had a lot of carbon in it.
We took all that carbon out and enhanced the recovery or the extraction of gold and sliver in that particular plant.
Well we actually gone back and now use a little bit of carbon in just two of the eight tanks that adds an additional incremental number of gold and sliver ounces that we recovered and we process those outside the mill facility.
And then the fourth is we have a tailings thickener and it's the last piece of equipment in the entire flow sheet.
We've just established some very tight operating controls around that pit now and have had a much of great success in limiting or reducing a number of ounces going to the tailings in Palmarejo.
In addition to all that we're operating at lower throughputs.
And so the residence time in each of the different unit operations that we treat the ores increased and that's helpful.
So it's a number of different factors but it's all added up to a pretty significant benefit to us.
So with the lower throughput presumably that will continue into 2016 as you guys are ramping up the two underground veins.
Do you expect maybe recoveries to come off a little bit then in 2017 as you guys ramp up your throughput despite sort of all the other structural positive changes you've made? No.
We expect that things will continue as they are based on how we've come around to managing this plant.
We'll never see the throughputs at least in our current plans that we used to achieve say two or three years ago when we were really exceeding the plant design capacity.
When we ramp up these underground mines we'll be processing normally 4 000 to 4 500 tons a day and we used to push the plant to 5 500 tons a day and higher.
So we'll always have that retention time benefit there.
But all these new practices that we put in place are going to pay dividends going forward.
And then my second question is at Rochester delaying the construction of the next leach pad do you foresee any kind of capacity constraints this year there? No we won't have any capacity constraints.
We're putting more out on her stage through leach pad now and it's got capacity through there at some point in 2017.
So we'll start reconstruction efforts on stage 5 of this year and we'll finish off the pad construction next year.
So all trying to fit where we can accomplish and see what's transitioned over pad to the other without an impact on production.
And my final question is just I just wanted to get your thoughts on potentially hedging whether it's currency or the metal prices as we've seen to move up in the last little while? Certainly we have had a very active hedging program in silver and gold.
Our last hedges ran out July of last year and we've stepped back from that.
If we see a decent recovery in silver and gold prices in particularly silver above our costs above our all-in sustaining costs and sort of view that hedging requires us to be generating margin and really the focus is on hedging margins specifically.
So it's something that we're monitoring on a constant basis and we will certainly plan to do in the future.
As far as currency or other hedges at this point it's not really our intention to do that.
We really focus on the metal prices themselves.
Jessica when we talk about hedging we're talking about downside protection and leaving the upside alone but put spreads to kind of protect us on the downside but leave the upside alone.
Very important point that's the exact strategy that we've used all the time.
And we've actually gravitated to hedging more silver than gold just given the inherent volatility of silver.
Our next question will come from Chris Thompson from Raymond James.
Just got a couple of quick questions here.
We'll start off with Palmarejo and what's happening into Independencia.
I think I've said that correct I'm getting better at that.
Just grade reconciliation what is your understanding what are you noticing obviously beginning to develop into that deposits can you just comment on that? Yes Chris let me just describe where we're at at the moment.
We're not quite in a position to start looking at the reconciliation but we've developed the declines over to the Orko [ph] rise and we got here as we had predicted kind of late last year.
And we're starting the development work in and around the ore body itself.
We did intercepted the vein network primarily targeting first two-times at this point in time and receives nice grade coming out of that.
But really still very premature to start talking about reconciliations through midyear and by the end of this year and that will definitely be something that we will attract at that point in time.
Just a quick comment if you would on how you're going to be managing the production of tons I guess from those the tons that are obviously associated with the Franco royalty and those that aren't? Well I can -- you think about you step back and you look at what the source of mill feed was last year compared to this year 60% of the tons last year to the mill came from that open pit compared to I think this year that will only be about 5% of total tons mill that will come from the open pit here just in the first month or two.
Guadalupe last year was about 25% of the total tons that went to the mill this year it's about 75%.
And then old Palmarejo underground was about 15% of total tons to the mill and then I think for the full year 2016 the old Palmarejo underground represents about 10% of this year's total mill tons through September.
And then the rest is really that balance from Independencia that will start essentially at zero tons per day in earlier in January and get up to about 1 000 tons a day by the end of the year like we said.
We will be -- the focus of the development works that Frank was talking about does prioritize the east side of Independencia which is the old Don Ese side of the Independencia ore body which is free of any obligation to Franco-Nevada.
So we'll be starting the mining and the prioritization of the mining off of the old kind of area of interest that the Franco obligation covers.
But here in 2016 that's not going to be as big of a driver just given and we still have the old gold royalty agreement in until about September.
And those Independencia tons aren't really high enough to make a big difference until really over the last probably two months of the year.
But then in 2017 if you look at the total tons coming from Guadalupe of call it 2 500 tons a day and then about the same 1 500 tons to 2 000 tons a day coming from Independencia almost all of those tons from Independencia will be royalty free or gold stream free.
Does that help kind of get to your question? That's great.
I guess quickly moving on the Kensington the sort of mill throughput we saw in the Q4 would that be representative of what to expect for this year? Any chance of an increase on that? No.
There won't be a substantial increase about what you saw in the fourth quarter.
I think it will be status quo throughout 2016.
And then finally just on Wharf.
I mean I understand this is probably a quarter-to-quarter sort of variation I guess in production tons to be expected more sort of seasonal or anything else.
Can you just expand upon that a little bit what we're going to see on a quarter-by-quarter basis this year? I'm talking about ton placement more than anything else.
We target at normally 14 000 tons a day crush rate for ore placement on pads.
And if you look at the year as it ensued out for the acquisition we stepped up each quarter on what the tons of ore that would be mined.
We make some improvements in the crushing area where we could improve availability of the crusher itself and increase the runtime and so on.
But really just kind of got up to the peak of where they have historically operated.
What you saw in the fourth quarter is pretty much going to be status quo going forward.
More on the golden reward there Frank.
What do we see as far as production rates from that on a quarter-by-quarter basis this year? We'll be mining there in part of the second quarter and the third quarter before we have to suspend the operations.
Now rest assure that we would be mining out the remainder of golden rewards.
I'm thinking in terms of April to roughly October timeframe.
And yet we'll still be drilling over there and like there is possibility.
But before we have to suspend the mining operations we might identify more material for next year.
We hope we do.
Our next question will come from Craig Johnston from Scotiabank.
Just one quick question as everybody else has asked some pretty good questions.
Just on the working capital management in Q4 and looking out into 2016 with the increase in accounts payable decrease in accounts receivable.
Do you see a big swing say in Q1 in the opposite direction that you saw in Q4 or maybe is this a new level of both those balances? I think the latter is a good conclusion Craig its Peter.
But obviously in this environment we're working hard to squeeze working capital a little and use that as a source of cash.
So holding those balances making that assumption through 2016 I think is a pretty good assumption.
This will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mitch Krebs for closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Well we appreciate your interest and your questions today.
Thanks for your time.
I know it's a lot obviously happening and you can tell a lot happening here at the company and all of which I think is moving us in a really positive direction.
So we look forward to speaking with you again in May to discuss our first quarter results.
Thanks again for your time.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.