Good morning and welcome to the Cedar Shopping Centers Incorporated first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open to your questions following the presentation.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Brad Cohen of ICR.
Please go ahead sir.
ICR</strong> Thank you very much operator.
Good morning.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and actual results may differ.
Many of the factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press release which was put out yesterday and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the end the company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in our circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Leo Ullman Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Leo? CEO and President</strong> Thank you very much Brad.
Good morning and thank you all very much for joining us today on the first quarter 2011 earnings call for Cedar Shopping Centers Inc.
With me on the call today are Larry Kreider our CFO and Brenda Walker our COO.
Also available on the call today are Tom Richey president of our construction and development division and Nancy Mozzachio our vice president of leasing.
Larry will further report on the company's financial results immediately after my opening comments and both Nancy and Tom will also participate in today's call with brief reports on their respective areas of operations.
Our company started off 2011 with a strong first quarter as it relates to occupancy leasing and cash flows of our properties.
Our occupancy for the stabilized properties which represents 104 properties of our 114 property portfolio other than 17 properties held for sale remains at approximately 94%.
Our occupancy for all properties including ground-up development and redevelopment properties is approximately 91%.
As Nancy will further detail our renewal lease results have continued to be remarkable and yet again show dramatic increases for this quarter.
In fact we have now shown meaningful increases in base rents on renewals for 21 of the last 22 quarters.
Our development activities continue apace as properties are nearing completion and a number of others are continuing to show progress.
Tom Richey will provide additional insight on these activities in a few moments.
I would now like to focus on the adoption by the company of a major strategic change initiative which we have incorporated into our long-term business plan.
Our new business plan is focused on disciplined improvement of our overall portfolio quality while also emphasizing further deleveraging of our balance sheet.
In this regard we are very much committed to and focused specifically on 1) improving our fixed charge coverage and 2) improving our debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
In our efforts to meet these goals we are taking a number of important steps with respect to our portfolio that will encompass a very disciplined approach to adding value.
We are targeting the sale or disposition of a number of properties in secondary or tertiary markets which properties may be relatively highly leveraged and where the prospects of future growth are generally limited.
We expect to achieve such improvement in overall quality and demographics for our properties initially through such targeted dispositions and this pruning process is well underway evidenced in part by the contracts we recently announced to sell substantially all of our remaining Ohio properties.
We are thus in the process of completing the sale of 17 properties including 14 anchored by Discount Drug Mart for approximately $45 million subject to approximately $30 million in debt.
As indicated in our earnings release we have taken an additional impairment charge during the first quarter of this year with respect to these anticipated sales.
After closing of such sales expected by the end of the third quarter of this year we will only have 3 net leased small drugstore properties i.e.
2 CVSs and one Rite Aid in Ohio each with a self-amortizing mortgage.
In addition we are marketing the two small properties that we have in Michigan.
We have also put up for sale and have received strong interest in a portfolio of five primarily supermarket-anchored properties in the Chesapeake area of Virginia.
Those properties are nearly all anchored by Farm Fresh an affiliate of SUPERVALU.
SUPERVALU has experienced some financial difficulties and a number of its chains have sold stores and or are reported to be offering additional stores for sale.
We have previously announced our agreement to sell our 20% interest in all but one of the nine properties in the joint venture with Homburg Invest the closing of which is still subject to lender approvals for those respective properties.
We have also previously announced that we are selling our interest in the Columbia Mall in Bloomsburg PA.
All of these steps will further reduce our exposure to smaller markets in Pennsylvania and non-core markets in other states.
We would fully expect and fully intend as a result of these actions coupled with selected strategic acquisitions of larger properties with enhanced growth opportunities such as the acquisition of Colonial Commons in the first quarter of this year to improve the overall performance demographics and quality of the core properties in our portfolio in the coming years.
We know it will take time but we believe it will have a significant impact in growing our earnings and cash flows over the long term.
In addition to the repositioning of our core portfolio to enhance its value and future growth opportunities coupled with our ongoing focus on delevering of our balance sheet we have also invested significant time working with our banks on a new credit facility.
We expect to be in a position to share the specifics of that new credit facility in terms of size rates covenants and terms with you once it is completed.
Our FFO for the first quarter of 2011 was $0.14 per share which was generally consistent with our results over the last several quarters.
Our 40-acre development site on Route 1 in northeast Philadelphia previously leased to the U.S.
government and vacated as of mid-April this year as we had fully expected when we acquired the sites will have a meaningful impact on our cash flow results until redevelopment at the site is completed.
Incidentally the government is required to restore the buildings on the property to its original state or to pay to us amounts equal to the potential costs of such restoration which we believe could well amount to several millions of dollars.
The reduction in cash flow together with the dispositions discussed earlier will obviously also affect our FFO and AFFO per share results.
Accordingly our basic operating FFO guidance range for 2011 which we are announcing today and as discussed in our earnings release will be $0.40 to $0.44 per share and OP unit.
Now I would like to turn the mike over to Larry for some further analysis of our financial results.
Thank you Leo.
For full details of our financial results for the quarter ended March 31 2011 I refer you to our press release issued last night as well as our supplemental financial information published on our website and also available at www.sec.gov.
Our results in the first quarter reflect stable operations at our core properties growth through properties acquired both by the Cedar-RioCan joint venture and the company and improved leasing.
As indicated on page 9 of our supplemental the company's pro rata share of revenues for the first quarter as compared to the fourth quarter of last year this includes the company's share of managed properties but excludes noncash revenues increased approximately 7% primarily as a result of the Colonial Commons acquisition by the company at the end of January 2011 partially offset by the acquisition and financing piece earned by the company in the fourth quarter 2010 from joint venture acquisitions early in the fourth quarter.
The company's pro rata share of net operating income was approximately flat as the additional NOI from the acquisition this quarter was largely offset by the acquisition and financing fees last quarter.
Operating results compared to the comparable quarter of the prior year were also quite stable.
For the 87 same properties which comprise approximately 83% of our GLA NOI excluding noncash revenues increased by $182 000 to $22.6 million.
This reflects steady lease-up at our development properties offset somewhat by higher bad debt expense mostly at our redevelopment properties.
G&amp;A expenses were $2.7 million in the quarter including approximately of employee termination charges partially offset by approximately $200 000 of benefits from a legal settlement in the company's favor thus bringing the base level of our G&amp;A to within our expected range of approximately $2.4 million to $2.7 million per quarter exclusive of noncash stock based compensation mark-to-market adjustments.
Interest expense was higher by approximately $600 000 as compared to last quarter reflecting debt used to finance the Colonial Commons acquisition.
Lastly operating results continue to reflect the impact of our strategic decision to focus on improvement in the quality of assets in our portfolio.
As of the end of April the company had completed negotiated sales contracts on all but one properties held for sale and recorded additional impairment charges of $9.9 million reflecting $2 million for the additional properties held for sale and $7.9 million principally for revised negotiated sales contracts.
Net cash flow provided by operations was $4.2 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $3.7 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Reflecting the effects of the Colonial Commons acquisition in the first quarter our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 8.6x in the first quarter of 2011 as compared to 9.3x in the comparable quarter of the prior year.
The ratio of debt to market capitalization was 58.1% in the first quarter largely reflecting reduction in the company stock price and the ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges was 1.6x in the first quarter of 2011.
The company is working to arrange a three-year extension to the company's stabilized and development property lines of credit that would result in a meaningful reduction of interest expense including amortization of deferred financing costs when completed.
Additional comments regarding our 2011 guidance.
As we indicated in our press release we expect to report operating FFO of $0.40 to $0.44 per share and approximately the same amount of FFO in 2011.
Our press release essentially reconciles our annualized operating FFO first quarter run rate of approximately $0.54 per share to this guidance.
With respect to the $0.06 per share of reduce operating FFO related to the Roosevelt Boulevard properties in Philadelphia Pennsylvania this represents revenue on two parcels in the quarterly amount of $1.4 million or $0.02 per share per quarter which resulted as expected from the tenant vacating the premises on April 15 and most of which has not been included in NOI in the past.
With the first quarter completed the remaining three quarters represent the $0.06 per share or $0.06 per share per quarter of FFO.
I'd like to make a few additional comments for those of you who track our net asset value.
The bulk of the revenue is on the first parcel in the amount of $1 million prior quarter or $0.0014 per share per quarter and has been included in equity and income from unconsolidated joint ventures on the income statement and has not been included in NOI.
The property value has been recorded net of debt on the balance sheet at a value of approximately $6 million in a line item called "Investment in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures" and has not been reported in our property list at any time.
Revenue on the second parcel which was acquired in late October 2010 was included in NOI in the amount of $300 000 in the fourth quarter of 2010 or approximately $0.004 per share.
For the first quarter of 2011 we recognized $458 000 or $0.007 per share.
The property value beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010 was reported at a book value of approximately $13.3 million.
Now with respect to the $0.02 per share of reduce noncash revenue from amortization of intangible lease liability amortization and straight-line rent as discussed in last year's guidance disclosure these noncash revenue items are expected to be lower based on schedules established primarily when the related properties were purchased with below-market rents that typically run through the first or second term of the leases acquired.
These amortization amounts have some variability based on unexpected lease terminations.
With respect to the $0.03 per share reduction due to the disposition of properties held for sale operating results from such properties are includable in FFO through the date of disposition despite reported in the income statement in discontinued operations.
The effective removal of these properties is subject to variability based on the timing of closing the actual sales of the properties which we have generally assumed to be in the third quarter.
Looking to the stability of our core operating properties we also expect to report constant same-property NOI excluding noncash revenues.
I'd now like to turn the call back to Leo for Q&amp;A and closing remarks.
CEO and President</strong> Thank you very much Larry.
I'd like to turn the mic over to Tom Richey to discuss our development activities.
Tom? Construction and Development Division</strong> Thank you Leo.
As disclosed in previous communications the present development and redevelopment pipeline at Cedar is much reduced from its size in past years.
Today Cedar's pipeline has a total of eight projects.
Of these three are ground-up developments while the remaining five are redevelopments of existing operating properties.
These projects represent a total of new net investment approximating $50 million.
Significant progress is being made in obtaining the final necessary entitlements for two of the ground-up developments.
Each of these projects Kutztown Commons in Kutztown Pennsylvania and Halifax Commons in Halifax Pennsylvania should be delivered in late 2011 or early 2012.
The final ground-up development Addisville Commons in Bucks County Pennsylvania is slated for delivery in 2013.
The Kutztown and Bucks County projects are grocery-anchored developments while Halifax Commons is pharmacy-anchored.
Of the five redevelopment projects two Townfair Shopping Center in Indiana Pennsylvania and The Point Shopping Center in Harrisburg have already been delivered earlier this year with a third Trexlertown Plaza in Allentown Pennsylvania to be delivered later this calendar year.
The Point Shopping Center project consisted of the expansion of an existing operating grocer while the Townfair project involved the replacement of a dark grocery anchor with a new much larger grocery store.
The Trexlertown Plaza project consists of the relocation of an existing grocery anchor into a new facility.
The final two redevelopment projects in the Cedar pipeline the Brickyard shopping center in Berlin Connecticut and the Shore mall in Egg Harbor Township are scheduled for completion in 2012 and 2014 respectively.
We continue to consider future project opportunities at Cedar with a previously stated strict and conservative criteria centered on our aversion to risk.
We are also continuing to look at projects that have a significant amount of preleasing and entitlements in place as a means of further mitigating risk.
We have found that the marketplace has continued to provide us with these types of opportunities as well as the more traditional project opportunities provided by the expansion needs of our many grocery tenants.
I'd now like to turn it back to Leo.
CEO and President</strong> Thank you very much Tom and in turn I'd like to turn it over to Nancy to talk a bit about our leasing efforts which continue to be very strong.
Nancy? Leasing</strong> Thank you Leo.
Recently I read an interesting statistic contained in a study produced to determine average monthly consumer trips to retail categories.
The number that stood out was 7.3.
It was the lead number by a long shot and represented monthly trips by consumers to supermarkets.
Here's why the number is noteworthy.
It represents support for supermarket operators already contending with consumers concerns about rising gas and food costs and it's also meaningful for other tenants and supermarket anchor properties.
Monthly visits are a reliable predictor of sustainability.
This study helps explain why our new-lease-to-renewal spreads are consistent last year positive and why our product type remains defensive in an ever-changing retail environment.
Now to our numbers.
We completed 22 new lease transactions in the quarter a 45% increase over the same period a year ago and a 10% increase over last quarter very much consistent with our projections.
Thirteen new leases commenced in the first quarter.
The remaining nine when commenced are expected to contribute approximately $303 000 in revenue in 2011 and $1.6 million in 2012.
While the numbers reflect an apparent decline in new lease rates versus terminated rates further examination will show that this was overwhelmingly skewed by one lease termination which was strategically ended prior to term to take advantage of a $1 million termination payment offered by the tenant.
We accepted payment in December 2010 and terminated the lease in January of 2011.
We felt we could easily release the space which is located in Virginia in the year of 2011.
New lease rates for this space combined with exiting termination payments should provide new net gains that far exceed old rents.
If we exclude this strategic termination new lease rents for those that have commenced and not yet commenced versus old rents reflect a 4.5% increase.
Twenty-one leases representing 376 000 square feet renewed in the quarter at 9% spreads.
Renewal spreads are up 60% from this time last year and even though the number of transactions differs from first quarter 2010 this should not be seen as a dip in activity.
The difference merely points to a lesser number of leases expiring in the first quarter of this year.
While we believe leasing spreads are a good indicator of internal growth further growth will stem from eased TI expenditures coupled with good spreads.
Just this last quarter TI costs declined over 60% from last quarter and over 35% from the same period in 2010 even though leasing activity levels are up considerably as previously indicated.
Overall retailers with strong balance sheets dominate our pipeline for new deals as retailers begin to implement robust expansion plans established last year.
In almost every size category we've seen a surge in activity the most noticeable in the mid to large size box category.
Last quarter we reported that our plans to complete deals with tenants to fill our largest vacancies in Harrisburg and Bloomsburg Pennsylvania and Berlin Connecticut were of utmost importance this year.
We are happy to report we executed on those plans and signed leases for 28 000 square feet in Harrisburg at our Oakhurst property and 61 000 square feet in Bloomsburg at our Columbia Mall property.
We expect to sign a 65 000 square foot tenant in our Brickyard property in Berlin Connecticut within the next two weeks.
In addition leases were signed in two locations where we had the opportunity to add GLA to exiting centers.
We executed a lease with TJ Maxx at our DuBois property in western Pennsylvania where we plan to construct a 24 000 square foot store due to open in late fall and executed a lease with Carmike Cinemas at Upland Square in Pottstown Pennsylvania.
The tenant will construct a 45 000 square foot theater which is expected to open in the spring of 2012.
As we head into this month's annual recon conference we feel confident in our meetings will further enhance our strong retailer relationships and produce meaningful leasing activity for the coming months and years.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to you Leo.
CEO and President</strong> Thank you very much Nancy.
Operator we'd be pleased to take questions at this point.
Thank you sir.
[Operator instructions.] We'll take our first question from Todd Thomas at KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
I'm on with Jordan Sadler as well.
With regard to your guidance can you discuss some of the underlying assumptions related to the core portfolio that you're assuming in terms of occupancy and maybe same-store NOI? CEO and President</strong> Well Todd as I said in my remarks we expect a pretty constant same-store NOI through this year and constant occupancy.
Okay.
And I was wondering Leo you mentioned with regard to the additional asset sales the two properties in Michigan and the five in the Chesapeake area I was just wondering if you could discuss the strong interest that you're seeing and maybe discuss what kind of pricing we should expect and also who are the buyers for these assets.
CEO and President</strong> The strong interest has been mostly from private owners who are active in the area.
We have generally contemplated based on initial reactions that the sales prices would be generally equal to our cost basis for the properties.
In Michigan we have not seen a great deal of activity and partly it's a problem of not yet having fixed the Hobby Lobby lease which replaces the A&amp;P tenancy although A&amp;P never opened and Hobby Lobby is the sublessee that contract is either extendable or terminable by us and we haven't reached an agreement because that may very much affect the desirability of the property to an acquirer.
The other property in Michigan is a small development site near Grand Rapids.
We have had some activity for the Columbia Mall property and we continue to market that.
Other than that I think it's mostly been the Ohio properties.
And then just lastly you talked about the SUPERVALU a little bit with regard to Farm Fresh but I was just wondering if you can give us an update on the Acme and Shaw's SUPERVALU stores that are in your portfolio as well.
CEO and President</strong> Well we have Acme Stores in Philadelphia primarily.
They operate very well.
We think that if anything should happen to those stores and we don't contemplate that that they would be easily retenantable.
We do have some Shaw's properties in Massachusetts and we have closed properties there and Brenda can discuss that.
Brenda would you mention something about the Shaw's? Certainly.
We have a Shaw's in Raynham Massachusetts.
It's operating very well.
That property has a very high occupancy and they saw a statistic of 7.3 trips per month.
I think we can continue to see that property operate well.
We have a closed Shaw's in New Bedford.
They closed in the first quarter in February of this year.
CEO and President</strong> That property is in the Homburg portfolio.
That is in the Homburg portfolio.
The lease goes into 2024.
CEO and President</strong> So they are continuing to pay rent.
Yes they are paying rent.
CEO and President</strong> I think that's about it.
Todd is that satisfactory for your purposes? Yes thank you.
And moving on we'll next go to Paul Adornato with BMO Capital Markets.
First with respect to the East Lansing property with the A&amp;P that obviously is in same-store but is it also included in held-for-sale? CEO and President</strong> No.
What do you think you'll do with the property? Will you try to lease up the A&amp;P before you market it? CEO and President</strong> No in fact we first have to figure out exactly what we will be doing with Hobby Lobby and that in turn will be dependent on as I indicated whether potential purchasers would rather have the vacant store versus a continuing lease.
That lease is at about $6.25 whereas the A&amp;P lease I believe Nancy was in the $17 area? Leasing</strong> $17.03 something along those lines yes.
CEO and President</strong> That property is a couple of hundred feet from the entrance to Michigan State University so we do expect to have strong interest in that property once we determine what to do with the Hobby Lobby lease which now is a direct lease rather than a sublease and that tenant has been paying rent to date.
The other thing that's relevant to that property is that we do contemplate having substantial claims under the A&amp;P bankruptcy for leases up to three years and that's a valuation in the millions of dollars where we are actively talking to companies who purchase these claims in bankruptcies at a 20-27% valuation of the ultimate claim.
And we contemplate that that may be a transaction that we would enter into which would generate probably on the order of $400 000 or more.
And finally Leo you talked about the big picture strategy which is to focus on asset repositioning and improving certain metrics.
What should we expect with respect to the asset repositioning? That is how much and what timeframe do you think we will see dispositions? CEO and President</strong> Well I think you will continue to see dispositions not only the properties that we have announced but ultimately we are reviewing our portfolio and determining any properties where there may be a question or a concern that would impel us to sell or offer those properties for sale.
And they could include indeed even a couple of our larger development properties.
With respect to the acquisition side of it we have to maintain very considerable discipline.
Our cost of money is substantial and there is compression in cap rates for properties with higher demographics.
We have been fortunate to have been able to acquire some very very good properties in the RioCan joint venture which enhanced our demographics for properties and those properties are operating very very well.
And we would hope to continue to acquire some of those types of properties even with more aggressive cap rates and perhaps tinkering with the 20% - 80% formula going forward.
Those are the kind of things that we would look to but it will disciplined and we are not projecting any meaningful acquisitions during the course of this year.
So if I'm hearing it correctly there's definitely still an appetite on RioCan's part for your footprint.
Is that a fair statement? CEO and President</strong> I think it's fair to say.
I don't expect it to stand in RioCan's shoes but certainly their cost of money is very attractive.
Their announced initiative to acquire additional properties in the U.S.
is strong and I think it is fair to report that our joint venture has operated very very well we've acquired properties that have continued to demonstrate strong occupancy even increased occupancy at a very high level highly credit-worthy tenancies long-term leases good demographics and increases in cash flows.
So I think it's fair to expect that if we can continue to show quality product to RioCan that they would be interested buying them.
And then just finally on accounting there was a $0.02 adjustment for amortization of lease intangibles.
Just to make sure I understand what's going on.
So under accounting you're required to mark-to-market essentially your lease portfolio and now the adjustment is due to the lower market rents assumed in that calculation? Well you're correct in one sense that when you buy a property you do set up a reserve account for below-market leases.
It's a liability account.
That's amortized over a period of time typically one to two terms of the lease but it's a schedule that amortizes each year and we've been amortizing those leases since acquisition.
Some of these properties have got to the five-year term for example and the term of the amortization has just expired.
Okay so it's no change in the market assumptions? No no change at all.
It's all historically determined.
And next we'll go to Nathan Isby at Stifel Nicolaus.
Can you just disclose what the physical occupancy of the portfolio is not on a leased basis but actual physical occupancy? CEO and President</strong> I'm going to leave the discussion on occupancy to Gus for a moment.
Gus would you explain also if you would what we have done with occupancy statistics during the course of the past year in our sup.
To start off if you look back at our sup from March of 2010 you would see that the occupancy for the total operating portfolio was more around 94.5%.
In June of last year on the advice of our analysts we decided to put back in the retenanting properties into our total operating portfolio.
And over the course of December and March as we held properties for sale we removed them from the total operating portfolio in accordance with the accounting rules.
It reduced that occupancy from 94.5% to approximately 93.5%.
Our occupancy right now in March of '11 is approximately 93.6%.
We had about seven tenants that were erroneously marked as terminated as of March 31 who did not terminate at March 31.
Our actual occupancy for the March quarter should be about 93.8% which shows about a 20 basis point decrease from December.
In our new leases that we list here on page 13 of our supplemental there are about 34 000 square feet of new leases that relate to our ground-up developments which are not in the total operating portfolio.
Also in the new leases executed but not yet commenced which are not in our occupancy numbers there are about 24 000 square feet of leases related to our total operating portfolio.
What it does is our occupancy is pretty stable from December to March and has shown an increase from March of last year.
What I was actually referring to was the physical occupancy just in terms of the fixed grosses that have closed and how if you were to include those into your occupancy numbers how that would - Understood.
Yes the six grocers that have closed represent a total of approximately 360 000 square feet out of the 14.9 million square feet we are reporting.
And that represents approximately let's say 2.5%.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
And then can you just address just looking at your portfolio as a whole and then maybe breaking it down a bit what your sales productivity of the grocers in your portfolio are? CEO and President</strong> Well we have a pretty good idea of certainly the Stop N Shop and Giant component which represents nearly 20% of our total revenues and of our GLA.
Their average sales for the stores in our portfolio are between $630 and $650 per square feet according to our estimates.
The grocers are not required to report so much of this is based on our assumptions and our analysis and conversations with people at the tenants.
With respect to our other stores it's varied but I would guess generally that it's in the $400 to $450 per square foot range with the exception of course again of the very strong Stop N Shop and Giant tenancies.
If you were to look at your portfolio between what's in the RioCan portfolio and what's in your consolidated portfolio how much of a difference would you say there is in terms of the gross and productivity? CEO and President</strong> I think it's probably fairly reflective.
In the RioCan portfolio we have let's say between 22 and 24 properties.
Most have a supermarket component and most are the Ahold affiliates with limited exceptions such as Raynham mentioned by Brenda and there may be others.
But basically I would say that most would reflect the grocery component with the Ahold concept.
So again at the probably $625-650 per square feet kind of sales results.
And then just looking at it one other way can you talk about what the productivity in your SUPERVALU concepts are? And maybe specifically both what's still open and maybe the six grocers that have closed already.
CEO and President</strong> Well the six grocers that have closed aren't producing a lot of - I know but where were they before they closed? CEO and President</strong> I think in general our properties that we have offered for sale in the Chesapeake area are operating well.
I would say in the $400-425 kind of area.
And the reason we put them for sale at this time is that they are operating well and they do look good.
But strategically for us we have decided it's a market that we do not want to play in going forward.
I think with respect to the other SUPERVALU concepts Acme in Philly is I would say would be in the $500 area.
Those are good stores.
Washington Center probably a little down from that in South New Jersey.
That's probably in the $400 area.
I think those are the ones that are relevant.
And the ones that are closed do you have any figures on those? CEO and President</strong> Before closing? They don't report Nate.
None of them report.
It's hard to speculate at this point.
And then just focusing on the Philly property.
I remember when you bought it you clearly knew it was not a long-term deal for the IRS there.
Can you just talk about what you're looking at what you've been working on in terms of replacing and IRS what it's going to cost in terms of time and yield? CEO and President</strong> Well there again it's not predictable.
I wish it were in terms of timing and cost.
The property was just vacated literally a couple of weeks ago at this point.
And we have carefully reviewed the properties in terms of our potential claims for restoration.
It represents 40 acres in northeast Philly just south of the Pennsylvania turnpike where we have a signalized entrance that's just north of [Red Line] Boulevard.
100 000 cars or so pass this property per day.
It's 12-lane traffic believe it or not and of course it's Route 1 Roosevelt Boulevard so it's a very very impressive site.
It is presently zoned industrial.
We have been in the process of obtaining potential retail use and dealing with the various entitlement aspects of it.
We have also been talking to a couple of very strong Philadelphia developers on the concept of potential joint development activities which could be multiuse.
We have also been approached by schools and industrial users as possibilities.
So it's very very hard at this early stage to predict when and how and how much.
Okay thank you.
And then just one final question.
Your net recoveries were down this quarter.
The expenses were up recoveries were down.
Was that due to snow issues? CEO and President</strong> On a cash basis certainly.
On an accrual basis we're still showing 73% collections which are in fact slightly up.
Yeah I was looking in your same-store NOI on page 12 there.
CEO and President</strong> We think by the end of this month we will have billed and largely collected on a cash basis much of the year-end billings which of course were immensely affected by snow removal.
Next we'll go to Craig Schmidt of Bank of America Merrill Lynch You may have been in the process of answering this but when I look at the occupancy for the operating properties from December to March you went from 96.4% to 97.4% and then for the smaller properties you went from 81.9% to an increase of 82.7%.
But when I get to the total for opening properties it went from 94% to 93.6%.
I'm just trying to understand why the two different areas could increase yet the total would decrease.
CEO and President</strong> Gus? Craig you're looking at the table that's in the footnote H? In the sup on page 13? Yes on page 13 on March and - That also includes our ground-up developments and our development properties.
That's why there's the difference between the 92.1% and the 93.6%.
In the prior quarter at December it didn't include all the properties.
We had to correct the mix.
Okay so it's a mix issue.
Yes.
Great.
Okay then I guess for Nancy if she could just describe the leasing spreads between the large and the small tenants.
How would you characterize them? Leasing</strong> You're talking about new lease spreads or renewal? Renewal I guess is more important but both if I can get it.
Leasing</strong> Okay.
Well just generally I can tell you that the overall renewal spreads large versus small of course if it's a lease that comes due with an option that's in place with a larger tenant you're typically seeing a smaller increase sometimes no increase at all.
The grocer sometimes will give you a small percentage.
When we've had the opportunity to negotiate new terms we have generally had the ability to get a positive free lease spread on a renewal basis.
With the smaller tenants I would say we've been seeing pretty consistently pretty high numbers in terms of our spreads.
I'd say anywhere between the 7-11% range and we're certainly seeing that well into 2011 and any new deals that we're working on for 2012.
In terms of new lease spreads I think that we are showing and as I mentioned in my remarks the overall numbers are still positive.
Our newer leases with larger-sized tenants we're still eking out percentages and with the smaller tenants I think pretty consistently I would say maybe 5-7% for new leases for smaller tenants say under 10 000 square feet.
[Operator instructions.] We'll take our next question from Sri Nagarajan at FBR.
Hi this is Evan Smith on with Sri.
I was just hoping you guys could talk a little bit about specific goals you have in terms of net debt to EBITDA and fixed charge and also the timing of those goals.
CEO and President</strong> Well we can give you sort of a range.
Basically in terms of our business plan over a two-year period we would like to move the fixed charge coverage from 1.6 toward 2.0 and with respect to debt to EBITDA again looking at a two-year period we'd like to move that 8.3 at which we are now to say the 7.5 kind of range.
And with the planned dispositions that you've been talking about are there any additional impairment charges that you expect to incur this year? And then also is this going to have any effect on the dividend level going forward? CEO and President</strong> We don't expect any effect on the dividend.
Our AFFO is substantially in excess of our dividend amount.
Our AFFO is in the 43-44% range and our dividend's $0.36.
So we do not expect a challenge in that area.
We do contemplate possible additional impairments which we can't quantify yet.
For example with respect to the Michigan property if we have a sale there and possibly Columbia depending on where we ultimately sell that.
But we don't expect large amounts anymore.
We took a real hit with respect to our Ohio properties and that's where we think we were most vulnerable.
But strategically we strongly believe it was the right move.
And other than that we do not expect serious impairments.
Just one addendum we do expect an in the range of $5 million increase once we dispose of our 20% interest in the Homburg properties.
A gain.
And then lastly you talked in the press release about substantially completing all renewal leases for 2011 expirations.
Just curious what exactly you mean by substantially and also what the retention rate was.
CEO and President</strong> Nancy would you address that? Leasing</strong> I think last quarter we were talking about that we're more than 50%.
We've definitely upped that number.
I would say that we are probably two-thirds of the way at this point with probably another I would say 10-15% in contracts so not yet signed.
The retention rate for us is quite high.
You're probably in the high 80s for smaller tenants and probably in the low 90s if not higher for the larger tenants.
And now we'll take our last question from Arthur Friedman at Friedman Asset Management.
Actually all my detailed occupancy questions have been very nicely answered so I won't ask those.
I was wondering could you do what you did last quarter which was give us just an overall macro assessment of the overall economy and how you think it's impacting your strategy and the properties going forward? CEO and President</strong> I think it's fair to say that we may be a little bit more pessimistic than some of the reports that have been in papers and we think our product which is essentially a defensive product with the grocery anchors continues to be probably the best answer to the increases in commodities pricing to the increases in fuel charges and energy costs all of which we think will impact again on sales for retail properties going forward.
Continued unemployment no meaningful increase in housing starts all of those things.
And no meaningful new construction.
We think all of that will continue to benefit our defensive product going forward.
And as you heard from Nancy in terms of the trips to the supermarket-anchored properties they are more than double the nearest other category which I believe is the power centers.
So we think we're in a relative sweet spot still with the challenges that are out there.
The other kind of concerns that we have which are not impacting us very much are sales through the web and we think that will impact electronic stores.
Among our tenants it could impact people like Staples.
We don't have that much exposure to say Best Buys but it could impact Staples and Staples has been featuring smaller stores.
It could impact somebody like Radio Shack.
Again not a meaningful percentage of our overall tenancy at all but we think with respect to grocers they will continue to operate well.
The challenge for the grocers has been and will continue to be the amount of food that's being sold in drugstores convenience stores and dollar stores.
And that will impact on our general leasing parameters in that the grocers in terms of their exclusivity would clearly prefer not to have challenges with dollar stores which to date have comfortably been in the same supermarket-anchored properties as the grocers.
And I think going forward that huge component of our total tenancy that's measured by the dollar stores will be challenged.
But the dollar stores we think will continue to do well unless pricing from China increases greatly as a result of transportation costs for example.
That's right because actually we noticed Targets are starting to sell a lot of food too.
Thank you very much.
And that's all the time we have for questions today.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
CEO and President</strong> Thank you very much operator.
Thank you again all for listening in to our call.
For closing remarks I would only say that the company will continue its capital recycling strategy which we started last year to upgrade the quality of our assets through selected asset sales as we've been talking about and through dispositions generally.
We expect that our efforts will further reduce our debt and improve long-term growth in our opening results in order to build and enhance shareholder value which of course is what we have to be about.
So thank you very much and that's the end of this call.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Shopping Centers Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen from ICR.
Thank you Mr.
Cohen.
You may begin.
Thank you very much operator.
Good morning.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results will differ.
Many other factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press releases which were put out yesterday and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the end the company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in our circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thanks Brad.
Thank you for joining us this morning for Cedar’s second quarter earnings call.
As many of you are aware this is the first earnings call for both me in my role as the new CEO of Cedar and Philip Mays our new CFO.
I’m pretty sure this will be the first and last call our wives and parents all dial into.
Before discussing our results for the second quarter of 2011 I would like to take a moment to acknowledge my predecessor Leo Ullman.
Leo is a man of the highest integrity and intelligence with an energy of a person of his age.
Although Leo Ullman and others would have preferred that Cedar share price performance reflects his remarkable accomplishments as Founder and CEO.
It is nonetheless worth highlighting many of his achievements.
Leo took Cedar public at the age of 65 an age when many people are contemplating retirement.
When he started pursuing the IPO he had roughly $75 million in assets.
In the following eight years he grew the company to roughly 1.5 billion in enterprise value.
Notably during that period from the ages of 65 to 72 he also completed roughly 40 triathlons.
One of Leo’s most remarkable achievements and one for which I’m aid and beneficiary is the outstanding team he put together.
Cedar has an accomplished and diverse team that I hope you will get to know better in the months and years ahead.
Specifically I’m joined today by members of Cedar’s senior management team.
In addition to Phil Mays our new CFO we have Brenda Walker our COO who had been with Cedar since its inception and was recently recognized by Real Estate Forum magazine as one of its 2011 Woman of Influence.
Tom Richey our Head of Development; mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions Nancy Mozzachio our Head of Leasing and Stuart Widowski our General Counsel.
Turning to the matter at hand.
As you know Phil and I started at Cedar two weeks before the end of the second quarter.
So on this call we can describe for you what occurred during the second quarter that we are not in a position to provide you with much color as to why certain decisions were made or measures taken that led to these results.
Rather we’re better equipped on this call to give you a feel for the matters we’re focusing on.
Just beginning a number of weeks ago Phil and I with the help of the broader management team have keenly focused on getting up to speed getting our arms around the Cedar of today and developing a game plan for the Cedar up tomorrow.
This is very much a work in progress and will be largely the focus of future calls and presentations.
However I thought it might be helpful to briefly highlight our areas of focus recognizing that this is still a work in progress.
Broadly we have concentrated on four areas culture and operations the portfolio capital structure and growth.
On the culture and operations front our primary current focus is on establishing a more disciplined and analytical approach to decision-making.
Essential element in this shift is our rebuilding the corporate model and better integrating it into our back-end leasing software.
Additionally we are beginning to develop asset-by-asset business plans.
My expectation is that this analytical foundation and discipline will allow us to make more informed decisions and more reliable information to our constituents.
In terms of portfolio we are focused on evaluating and improving upon the capital recycling efforts that began in earnest a few of quarters ago.
In addition we are more aggressively approaching the leasing up of some of our stubborn vacancy in order to fill those spaces.
Lastly we are revisiting most of our development and redevelopment projects and are exploring changing our historic approach to development and redevelopment.
In terms of capital structure we are focused on our two revolvers lowering the cost of our preferred and more generally lowering our cost of capital.
In addition we are developing what we feel will be an executable plan for delevering our balance sheet that at a minimum will involve thoughtfully – selected non-core assets.
We are acutely aware this will all take time.
So we expect to have progress to report during the balance of the year and beyond.
From a growth perspective we have slowed our pursuit of acquisitions dramatically.
And I expect we will generally hold off on further acquisition through the end of the year.
Before we re-enter the market for acquisitions we will have determined the direction we want to take the company and the market in which we want to grow.
This will enable us to deploy our capital in a more disciplined manner.
I know my comments had been brief and I am sure many of you would appreciate greater detail.
However I will beg your indulgence as we diligently work through a process that will enable us to formulate and then execute on an effective strategy.
We will of course keep all of our stakeholders informed on a timely basis of these developments.
With that I thank you for joining us and I give you Phil Mays.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
Since my arrival at Cedar I’ve had my head down and then focus on a deep-dive into our financial results capital structure property operations and working with the team.
While we have made some progress we still have a lot of work to do.
Bruce and I have already spoken to many of our stakeholders including investors employees and tenants.
Based on clear feedback we are aware that Cedar’s disclosure especially its supplemental financial information can be improved.
One of my short-term goals is to revise our supplement to ensure we always report our operations in a transparent manner.
It will take some time but you will start seeing results and seeing this in our disclosures by the time we report our year-end results.
Because of my limited time since beginning of the year this quarter’s results are being presented consistent with the prior periods.
With that said this morning I will briefly highlight the financial results for the second quarter including some unusual items and it’s been a few minutes talking about our balance sheet.
Starting with operating results.
Operating FFO excluding impairments management changes in charges and other non-recurring items was $0.12 per diluted share compared to $0.14 for the prior year value.
The decrease in operating FFO was driven by our interest in two Philadelphia properties which I will discuss in a moment.
Same property NOI for the quarter increased to $22.9 million from $22.6 million in the prior year.
This increase was principally driven by development properties.
In particular improved occupancy at Upland Square and Cross Road.
Excluding development properties same center property NOI was flat.
Occupancy at our operating properties consistent with the last several quarters continues to be above 93% and we again achieved good leasing results.
During the quarter we executed renewals for 87 000 square feet at a 4.8% increase on a cash basis and new leases commenced for 45 000 square feet at a weighted average rent of almost $20.
Now returning to the Philadelphia properties.
We have begun the process of divesting our interest in the two properties located on Route 1 that were previously occupied by the IRS.
In connection with this matter we recorded impairments of $16.7 million in the quarter and plan to convey our remaining interest to the lender.
Please note that GAAP will still require us to book interest on the related mortgage whether paid or not paid until we are legally relieved of this obligation.
This could take a few quarters to fully resolve.
During the quarter we also continue advancing the strategy of exiting Ohio and focusing on our core mid-Atlantic and northeast assets.
In connection with this and other efforts we recorded an additional $3.5 million of impairment.
The other non-recurring item for the quarter was a one-time management transition charge of $6.4 million.
Now turning to the balance sheet.
We’ve already begun meeting with lenders about recasting our revolving credit facilities and we hope to report progress on this by the end of the year.
Additionally improving our debt to EBITDA at fixed charge coverage ratios will be an important focus as we move forward.
We’re keenly aware that this will take some time and a lot of effort.
We’re still evaluating the best manner in which to attack these challenges but whatever manner we select it will be arrived at deliberately and with a long-term view.
One more item before I turn the call back to Bruce.
At this point we are not providing guidance.
I will only note that year-to-date we reported operating FFO of $0.25 per diluted share and a full-year guidance previously issued with $0.40 to $0.44 per share.
We are working hard to evaluate and understand Cedar’s business although we are not currently in a position to a affirm or disclaim the prior guidance.
So with that I’ll turn it back to Bruce.
Thank you Phil.
In closing I would like to reiterate that we are very focused on getting up to speed and developing a plan for Cedar that will cause it to be a stronger performer in the month and years ahead.
We recognized that at the very least this will be a function of our carrying our balance sheet being more disciplined in our capital allocation decisions and being more consistent in our communications with the street.
We look forward to posting you on our progress in the coming quarters.
With that operator we’d like the open the call to questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question is coming from Paul Adornato with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Hey I was wondering if you could walk us through your thought process regarding the Roosevelt project.
It seems like a rather quick reversal to a band in that redevelopment project.
Good morning Paul.
Thanks for the question.
It sounds like you have a little bit of cold.
So hopefully you’ll be feeling better but you raised a good question.
And this is really a function of the fact that although we are trying to take it slow we can’t control all the dynamics and Roosevelt coming to ahead very early and literally within the first week or so in which we came on the job.
And so we had to make a decision pretty quickly.
In coming into Cedar the framework that both Phil and I had and this is something that the broader management team was instinct with us on was really the idea that we’re going to be pretty disciplined in terms of how we thought about the development and redevelopment business and how we were going to be spending Cedar’s precious capital.
And the view was that the Roosevelt projects because of challenges on the zoning front and because of some of the uncertainties around who would eventually tenant those projects.
If and when they were ever completed the conclusion was – is that the risk return didn’t make sense.
And that in light of some of the broader challenges facing the company that will make sense for us to cut our losses.
And so we decided to unwind our position in that project.
As you’re probably aware it’s the project that has two elements to it.
One of them was in a joint venture one of them is wholly owned.
And what we did in the second quarter was unwound the interest in the joint venture.
Okay.
Thanks.
I appreciate that color.
I’m going to see if I can get one more question off.
And that is I was wondering if you could tell us the board’s thought process in – to clearing the dividend last week that is reforming the common share dividend? I’m not sure if I understand your question.
Last week the company declared its dividend.
I was wondering if you could tell us the thought process or the discussion that surrounded the board’s decision to affirm the dividend.
Okay.
Yeah I think that our plan is to maintain our dividend.
And so there wasn’t really much of the discussion in terms of cutting it.
As you’re probably aware on our share count our $0.36 per year is not a huge number.
We are reasonably close to covering it right now.
And we’re pretty comfortable that in the near future we’ll be cover it candidly and so we just didn’t think it made sense for the level of a couple of million dollars utmost to adjust the dividend at this time.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Todd Thomas of Keybanc Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
I am on with Jordan Sadler as well.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Bruce I recognized you haven’t been there very long.
But can you just talk a bit more about what you see as being some of the key areas where there may be room for the most near-term improvement? Is it operational or in the reporting or some overhead in G&amp;A perhaps? Well I think the nearest-term fix and the one that will be the easiest one for us to achieve is one that Phil and I have gone out and beyond sort of focusing on the company have spent time with members of the investment community and with research analysts as you’re aware just getting to know people and kind of getting feedback on Cedar.
And one of the things we’ve heard loud and clear is that stakeholders aren’t happy with the nature of our disclosure.
And so I could tell you without a doubt that that’s something that we’ll be improving in the very near term.
And I can tell you there was some certainty.
More generally in terms of the substance of the matter the things we’re focusing on are really the things I highlighted on my call.
So from a cultural and operations perspective we’re focusing on bringing some discipline to how we make decisions by being a little bit more analytical.
So literally we’ve started a process of rebuilding the corporate model and are better integrating it into our leasing software.
And we think that that will be valuable as we contemplate acquisitions and dispositions and any other capital allocation decision going forward.
And so I think that when we think about some of the more obvious or more immediate measures that’s certainly going to be one of them.
I think another one to guide you to is really a very keen focus on our capital structure.
And so another thing that we’ve been spending a lot of time on is evaluating our portfolio and determining which assets we can dispose off that would allow us to most effectively reduce our debt-to-EBITDA in a non-dilutive manner as possible.
And then I guess the third thing I would guide you to again from a capital allocation and a capital discipline perspective is that we’re keenly focusing on our development and redevelopment business really trying to understand the development business historically and reflecting on our development and redevelopment pipeline to determine that these are all projects that we in fact want to continue to pursue.
So I would say those are sort of the immediate measures that we’re focusing on right now in terms of creating value at the company.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then with regard to I think it was two centers that RioCan acquired in the quarter that Cedar is managing.
I was just wondering is that something that you think we will see more of in the future or is that sort of just a one-time deal for those two acquisitions that they made? That’s a great question.
Obviously I don’t know – I don’t know RioCan’s plans in terms of their future intentions in terms of acquiring assets within our footprint.
I could tell you that the genesis of how we came to manage these assets we’re not investing in them.
Surely after – really right when I came on and so came on.
We decided that until we had our arms around the company and the portfolio and again impose some discipline in terms of how we were making capital allocation decisions that we weren’t going to be acquiring anymore assets in the RioCan joint venture.
And that was something that we communicated and signed and the folks at RioCan with whom we have a terrific relationship.
They have a lot of respect for everybody at Cedar and really like the folks with whom they work.
And so Ed and his team suggested to us that we continue to work together helping them source deals and diligent on those deals and manage the assets after they acquired them.
Frankly from our perspective that was something that we were happy to do both because we have a great relationship with a very good partner because from an overhead perspective it didn’t cost us any more to do it and there is some incremental income.
And then also as a practical matter Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions is somebody who is very much in the flow of the deal process and very much – and very well-known in our markets.
And it just made sense that have been continued to be active.
And so we benefit in terms of having and continue to be in the flow of the transactions that are going in our markets rather it’s on behalf of RioCan to get it still maintain the vitality on that front.
And that’s certainly something we want to do so that we continue to stay relevant in our footprint going forward.
Okay.
And then a question maybe for Nancy.
I was wondering regarding leasing I was hoping you could just kind of fill us in on how the meeting – how your meetings were at ICSC and talk about some of the leasing that’s in the pipeline today? Well I could talk about our meetings with ICSC we have a tremendous number of meetings this year.
I think it was about 30% more than we had last year.
I’m going to sort of bifurcate the comments to anchor tenants and smaller tenants.
And with anchor tenants I think what we have seen is somewhat veracious appetite to expand what with the take-away there is that some of the largest tenants have gotten very smart.
I guess coming out of very difficult times we’ve learned to operate in different footprint.
So you have many retailers such as Cole and T.J.Maxx and some of the others.
And so this they can operate in something 25 000 square feet they can operate in something in 55 000 square feet.
That enables them to take advantage of different vacancies on the market because they all recognize that there is an absence in supply.
As for smaller tenants I think what we’ve seen is then uptick in activity with National small tenants and franchise driven small tenants.
The mom and pops are still out there although they are being very very I guess disciplined in how they are expanding.
We have seen some increases in capital available for some of the mom and pop tenants I guess about a year ago.
They were frozen.
And this year we’ve seen some assets to capital so that’s how a couple of mom and pop tenants expand.
But the national tenants by far are the ones that are taking advantage of some growth opportunities to itself on the northeast with some of the vacancies that are out there today.
You can see from our supplemental that we reported that we have about 18 tenants that have not yet commenced.
Of the 18 I would say you probably – 60% or so national tenants remainder are I recall regional tenants.
Of the tenants that commenced in second quarter probably 50-50 national tenants and small tenants.
So again I think even though the small tenants are difficult more difficult to dig up when you are out there canvassing trying to put deals together they are out there.
That gives a little bit of a flavor of what’s happening in the world of retail.
But I think the most important thing is that the national and regional tenants told us that they are not boxed in with a specific number of stores they must achieve for a year.
They are much more flexible than they’ve been in the past because they’ve recognized that they have to take advantage of sometimes second and third generations space.
And so they’re not going to say we’re not for 100 store openings what they’ll say is if we have 25 great store openings that are projected will be 25.
And if we have 150 that makes sense for us we’ll do 150.
Okay.
Hey Bruce it’s Jordan Sadler I just had a follow-up on one of the charges.
The $6.4 million in the quarter related to management transition.
Do you have a break out of that? Was that predominantly Leo and Larry or is there – does that also include some additional payments related to you and Phil joining if any additional clarity there? Hey Jordan this is Phil Mays.
Out of the $6.4 about five related to Leo and what we’ll do with him under his contracts and where the Boards settle there.
The remainder was Larry and some miscellaneous stuff that is not really much in there related to me and Bruce.
Out of $6.4 million about two of it or so was – or actually about $4.4 million was non-cash related to just acceleration of stock award nearly $2 million was cash.
That’s helpful.
And lastly so you said you did a deep dive on the financials as soon as you got in there.
I’m just curious are you comfortable at this point with accounting controls internal process or is it still too soon? No I’m comfortable.
I mean we have a big law firm that audits the financials is done so for a long time a lot of consistency there.
And I got to spend a lot of time with Ann Maneri our Property Controller and Gas Saitta our Corporate Controller and I have a lot of confidence in them.
And going through the close and looking at how they close the book the controllers that are in place and all that really got about the process.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question is coming from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Thanks for the areas of focus.
That’s helpful even if you choked.
I guess my question is back on leasing as well.
The volume seemed a little low for the second quarter.
I’m wondering if looking at third and fourth quarter will return to somewhat higher levels and looks like more activity in the larger space? Hi Craig.
It’s Nancy.
I think it’s typical that in second quarter close the other tenants opening in late spring is not the most desired time to open.
So I think in terms of new opening we’re definitely going to see that ramp up as we are closer to the fall and in the fourth quarter.
As for renewal activity I think it’s pretty much based on what’s expiring in that particular period.
There’s really no reason so we have a certain number of leases that are filing in a certain period of time.
And so it doesn’t necessarily mean that we’ve done less work it absolutely just means that that’s defined in that period of time.
Okay.
So it’s just the timing.
And then looking at the occupancy statistics I’m wondering what the differences between the wholly-owned at 9015 and the consolidated 9045 and then even further the manage at 97 is the difference between that wholly-owned and the other numbers small subspace or is there anything that describes why that number would be lower than the other two? Gus I think I’m going to look to you for that answer.
I think a lot of it is the small shops.
The RioCan centers were more lot – of them were developed in the last several years so they were newly built more high occupancy.
In our wholly-owned centers a lot of it is small shop.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Zen Rosenwhite of Credit Fund Management Hey Bruce and Phil thanks for taking my question.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
I just wanted to talk about the pace where you are with AFFO and fab per share and some the determinants of that and as it relates to the dividend I think it was already asked but I’m curious if you look at kind of the progression it’s $0.10 and down to $0.08 obviously that’s less than the amount of the current dividend.
And then when you look at the kind of the CapEx for second-generation space your TIs and leasings for your existing operating portfolio so little bit lower than it had been in past few quarters I guess.
Is that kind of a normalized rate or does that depend on the number of new leases that you execute and the TIs with that where do you see that shaking out going forward? Yeah I think that if you think about it just as a proportion of NOI it’s probably a fair run rate measure.
So I think that obviously the TI and leasing commission expense and some of the CapEx expense is going to be a function of our new leases and so obviously it’s going to vary with our leasing activity.
But I think that this is a reasonable – the CapEx numbers are reasonable run rate number.
Okay.
So just kind of from an overall strategy I know you had said you’re probably going to be owning your acquisitions.
Obviously you guys have a lot of debt.
And how do you realistically whether it’s a slow growth baying or something that you hope to do very quickly since I know you guys were only – you have a few weeks of the second quarter? And how do you get that bad number to a number what people are confident that it can cover the dividend going forward.
Because I don’t really know where that comes from right now but that’s really getting your debt even more out of control.
Actually – I would say I mean I guess what I would say is this is a little bit algebraic.
But our objective is to identify assets within our portfolio.
And as you know we have a pretty significant development and redevelopment business where we have had one with a fair amount of real estate that wasn’t generating any meaningful cash.
And so we think we have a reasonable opportunity between divesting the non-cash flow in real estate that’s being held for developments or redevelopment as well as this land as well as some of our very low-yielding net lease assets.
So we’d be able to generate a fair amount of cash to reduce debt without meaningfully impacting our cash flow.
And we expect that at the end of that process that we find ourselves with less debt but with not a significantly lowered cash flow number significantly low EBITDA number.
And on that basis we obviously have more cash available to do things like pay agreement.
Okay.
So basically the plan is to mind the current portfolio and kind of ride the horse of God basically.
Oh that’s one element of the plan.
That’s the element – I think as it relates to how we’re approaching the capital structure in the near term I think that the most immediate sticks to the capital structure is going to come from selling the assets that I just described.
Obviously there is going to be a much more comprehensive plan that we implement but as it relates specifically to reducing our debt to EBITDA the very near term is going to come from that.
Okay.
Well I appreciate your time.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the floor back over to management for any closing comments.
Thank you for your continued interest in Cedar Shopping Centers.
We look forward to updating you on our progress in the coming months.
Have a good day everyone.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust Incorporated third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen of ICR.
Thank you Mr.
Cohen.
You may begin.
Thank you very much operator.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press releases which were put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the end the company undertakes no obligations to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thanks Brad.
Good afternoon and welcome to the third quarter 2011 earnings call what is now called Cedar Realty Trust.
Our new company name and logo signal the commencement of Cedar’s transformation into what we expect will be a better performing shopping center REIT through many of the measures we will be detailing on this call.
The primary focus of today’s call in vision to reviewing our third quarter results will be an overview what we plan to proceed are in the coming quarters.
Since arriving in the middle of June 2011 we have focused on developing a plan to position Cedar to deliver compelling results on a consistent basis.
We understand that implementing such a plan will take time and great effort but one thing we’ve come to recognize from the work put in thus far is that our company has a very motivated and talented team of professionals and an attractive core portfolio in the highly desirable Washington DC to Boston corridor that is reliable and defensive.
Accordingly we think our efforts in revitalizing this company will be very rewarding for Cedar’s shareholders.
The team at Cedar has already started to reflect improvements in decision making and operations.
Upon arriving we set out to visit our entire portfolio create business plans for each of our assets and meet with our major tenants.
This exercise in turn allowed us to develop multi-year asset-by-assets projections which we have incorporated into what we expect will be a more reliable corporate model.
Having completed this process we are now much better positioned to anticipate problems improve transparency and make decisions that create long-term value.
In terms of operation we have endeavored to make improvements on many fronts too many to get into on this call.
One that might be worth highlighting is that we have increased our focus on small shop leasing which is an area where there’s significant room for improvement.
I expect to report increases in our small shop occupancy in the coming quarters.
A distinct takeaway for setting our company and its assets is that Cedar has remarkably high quality portfolio of primarily supermarket-anchored shopping centers with a very attractive geographic footprint.
However our portfolio is also cluttered with numerous and varied non-core assets which we value in the (inaudible) at approximately $150 million.
In considering these non-core assets in the context that our high leverage which on a debt-to-EBITDA basis was 9.2 times when we started here and now hovers at around nine times.
We concluded that the optimal strategy for the company would be to divest these non-core assets many of which happens to be very low yielding and use the proceeds to reduce our leverage.
When the execution of this strategy is completed over what we expect to be in the next 18 to 24 months Cedar will have considerably less leverage a later maturity schedule and improved debt service coverage all achieved without a significant diminution in our earnings.
As significantly we will have greater operational focus since what we remain will be an uncluttered portfolio of primarily grocery-anchored shopping centers straddling the Washington D.C.
to Boston corridor.
In addition our demographics and operating metrics will have been meaningfully improved within the remaining portfolio.
We’re excited about this strategy and as will be discussed in greater detail after Phil’s comments it is already very much underway.
However before getting into too much detail we would like to take a few minutes to review our third quarter results and discuss some of our accomplishments from a capital structure perspective.
With that I give you Phil Mays Thank Bruce.
Good afternoon everyone.
On this call I am going to highlight the financial results for the third quarter and then spend a few minutes talking about progress on our $300 million credit facility and a couple of recently completed debt refinancing.
First starting with operating results.
Recurring FFO was $0.12 per diluted share for the third quarter compared to $0.14 per diluted share for the prior year.
The decrease in the current FFO was due equally to that acquisition piece from our Cedar/RioCan JV and loss rent from the IRS vacating two properties in Philadelphia.
Last quarter we divested our interest in one of these properties and we are working with lender to commit our remaining property and resolve this matter by a year-end or early next year.
On the leasing front we continue to achieve consistent positive results.
During the quarter we executed renewals for 203 000 square feet at 5.1% increase on a cash basis.
And new leases for 183 000 square feet at a weighted average rent of about $14 per square feet.
This represents an increase of $2.5 above our consolidated portfolios weighted average in place rent.
Our leasing activity for the last couple quarters has now increased our total operating portfolio occupancy to 91.4% and our same center occupancy to 93.9% a 90 and 70 basis points respectively over the prior year.
As evidence of this leasing activity and occupancy gains same center NOI for the current quarter increased 1.8% excluding redevelopment properties and 3.1% including redevelopment properties.
The growth in redevelopment was driven by lease of Town Square Center which is 95% occupied.
We are discussing a lot of activity and changes on this call and I hope that the very consistent results of our same center properties are not overlooked.
Now focusing on the balance sheet we began the process of obtaining a new $300 million secured credit facility to combine and replace our existing $185 million stabilized facility and $150 million development facility.
We are pleased to report that we have already received bank commitments for the full $300 million from existing lenders that have decided to continue their support and commitment to the company.
The new facility will consist of a three-year $225 revolver and a four-year $75 million term loan that will both have one-year extension options and bear interest at LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 200 to 300 basis points determine by our leverage ratio.
The spread will be approximately 275 basis points based on our current level.
Of course this facility is subject to completion of loan documents and customary closing conditions but we are optimistic about closing it prior to year-end.
Additionally we extended our Shore Mall financing for one year at the existing terms.
The Shore Mall is one of the properties held for sale and its loan is pre payable at any time without penalty.
We also amended and extended our financing for Upland Square.
The new Cedar facility has about $54 million outstanding but provides up to $71 million of availability at LIBOR plus 275 basis points.
Although this property now almost 93% leased we still have some small subspace to sell and entitlement for approximately an additional 80 000 square feet.
But we will not start any expansion without planned leases this facility gives us the time and the flexibility to expand the centers especially as they’re completed in the next year.
While we are just taking the first step towards repairing the balance sheet these financings along with the other matters being discussed today do lay the ground work to reduce our leverage and establish a well added and manageable debt maturity profile.
Finally I would like to briefly note our revised supplement for today.
On our last call I stated we would start to provide a revised supplement by the time we reported year-end results.
However given the changes being discussed today we thought it was important to company this quarter’s call with a more thorough and transparent supplement.
Just as we are simplifying our business I think you will find a new supplement is more straightforward and less cluttered.
In general the new supplement provides data in three groupings.
The first presents information about Cedar’s consolidated portfolio on a clean standalone basis.
The second provides details about the Cedar/RioCan JV and the last one details the properties that we have designated for sale.
I am sure there are some additional improvements that we can and will make over time but I hope that after reviewing it you will agree that we've made significant improvements and started closures.
And with that I will turn the call back to Bruce.
Thanks Phil.
Our near-term strategic plan contemplates two essential elements.
First we intend to streamline our portfolio in order to improve our property type and geographic focus by selling all our non-core assets.
We feel the streamlining will enhance our operations since we will be managing fewer sensors in a narrower and more attractive geographic footprint with a greater focus on maximizing the value and improving the cash flow of these assets.
In addition we will be improving our portfolio metrics through this process.
Second we will be reducing leverage.
One of the elegant elements of our plan in my opinion is that many of the assets which are non-core strategically also are low yielding.
When this process is completed we expect to have less leverage greater financial flexibility and a very manageable debt maturity schedule all without suffering a meaningful reduction in earnings.
We have identified 50 assets including 10 land parcels having an aggregate pro rata value net of closing costs of approximately $150 million that we intend to sell or divest.
Our plan is for all of the net proceeds to be used to reduce indebtedness.
Many of these dispositions are underway with 30 properties representing approximately $90 million in value either under contract or [teed-up] to be return to a lender.
We currently expect the balance of these dispositions to be completed within the next 18 to 24 months or hopefully sooner.
Notably at the conclusion of this process we expected to be relatively modest reduction in FFO since many of these assets are low yielding and the interest savings largely offset by $7 million to $8 million in loss NOI.
Also we anticipate we will have reduced our debt to EBITDA ratio from roughly 9.2 times when we arrived at Cedar last quarter to less than eight times while reducing our FFO by roughly $2 million to $3 million.
The assets we intend to divest which are listed on pages 26 and 27 of our supplemental include our 12 discount marts in Ohio 11 single-tenant net lease properties three enclosed malls the remaining IRS building in Philadelphia six unanchored strip centers seven of the property in Homburg joint venture and 10 land parcels that were being held for development.
In total we will be selling slightly less than 2.8 million square feet of GLA and we’ll be completely exiting the Michigan and Ohio markets.
I will now take a few minutes to walk you through those properties in greater detail.
You might want to open this supplemental to page 26 to follow along.
Regarding the Ohio discount drug mart portfolio this divesture has been previously disclosed is now under contract and is going through the loan assumption process.
We hope to have this divesture largely completed by the end of Q1 2012.
These are non-core assets from both a geographic and asset perspective.
Our 11 single-tenant net-lease properties are similarly non-core from a property type perspective with eight of those assets also non-core geographically as they’re scattered around Ohio.
We have started the process of disposing of these assets with nine of the 11 now under contract.
Turning to the three enclosed malls Cedar owns Shore Mall Columbia Mall and The Point at Carlisle each of these is cash flowing though generally low yielding and was acquired with the thought that it would be a good candidate for de-malling in a similar to our successful Camp Hill project.
We have concluded that these malls will not make for suitable Cedar re-development and have therefore started the process of marketing these assets for sale.
The next category what we described as other non-core assets in our supplemental includes Roosevelt II our Philadelphia development property previously occupied by the IRS which we are returning to the vendor and six non-core strip centers of which two are already under contract.
For different reasons we have concluded that none of these assets stay into Cedar’s future plans.
As was previously disclosed the nine asset Homburg joint venture is being unwound pursuant to a by sell provision exercised by Homburg.
Since arriving we negotiated the contract and have endeavored to drive the process forward.
The deal currently contemplates Homburg acquiring seven assets for a sub 7% cap rate.
We think this pricing is instructive considering that the properties in the Homburg JV are our typical shopping center assets.
Cedar is acquiring two centers from the JV at a more attractive cap rate.
Notably with the exception of unwinding the Homburg JV we are not selling any of our supermarket anchored shopping centers as part of this divestiture process.
The last category of the asset being divested is our land.
Over years Cedar has acquired a number of land parcels for development totaling in the aggregate 148 acres.
We have concluded that we will not be pursuing any of the development projects that had been contemplated for these assets.
And focusing since our arrival on our cost of capital as well as likely market pricing for these assets on a stabilized basis we have concluded that it would injudicious use of capital to continue to pursue these investments.
Notably these are good assets to divest since they don’t offer any yield and are unlikely to otherwise be a source of value in the near term.
The challenge with land is that the market for land divestitures is relatively weak so unfortunately these dispositions will not occur as quickly as the improved properties.
Upon completion of all these divestitures we’ll have significantly streamlined our company in a manner that will resolve in a more understandable and more attractive portfolio of 92 primarily supermarket anchored shopping centers travelling the Washington DC to Boston corridor of which 70 will be owned on a consolidated basis and 22 will be 20% owned through the RioCan joint venture.
Focusing for a moment on our 70 consolidated ventures our three mile per capita income improved to over $61 000 per year and our three mile population density increases to 82 000 people.
This places us well above national averages.
Additionally those average are pro-forma average occupancy and our average base rent will have improved from our prior portfolio to our streamlined 70 consolidated centers by over 200 basis points as a result of these divestitures.
Lastly nearly 77% of our centers will now be supermarket anchored second most among all shopping center reads.
Although this plan is underway and we are confident that it will be executed I would be remiss if I didn’t a word caution at the timing of pricing of these dispositions is not set in stone.
Moreover I am certain that there will be challenges along the way in getting everything sold and closed.
That said we know it is the right decision to pursue this strategy as we build value for our stakeholders.
That leaves us with the last topic on our agenda namely our dividend.
We see our partnership with our shareholders to include a meaningful dividend to the extent supported by our free cash flow.
That said after a lot of thought we have made a decision to reduce our dividend in order to maximize our financial flexibility at this important juncture.
Our intention is to position the company in a manner that enables us to start to increase the dividend and to provide a consistent and growing dividend over time.
Accordingly although the board will review the dividend policy quarterly the board has decided to establish a target dividend in 2012 of $0.20 per share.
To reiterate we have complete confidence in our core shopping center platform and this dividend reduction is not a result of any distress.
Rather it is a prudent capital decision considering our near-term strategy and long-term objectives.
Let me conclude with our vision for this company in the years ahead.
I know it sounds audacious considering Cedar’s performance in the past but we envision Cedar becoming a strong performing shopping center REIT.
We want to be recognized not only for having well managed and defensive assets that offer consistent and reliable performance but also as a company that judiciously utilizes its capital in a manner that adds to shareholder value.
We know it will take time but more than our name has changed here at Cedar and we look forward to rewarding you for your patience and confidence as we evidence our renewed commitment to excellence.
With that I will open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of Mr.
Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Just focusing on the asset sales if you can talk a little bit more both about the Discount Drug Mart and may be the Humburg both of them have some extenuating circumstances facing at the Discount Drug Mart and I would say in the 10-Q last quarter you had mentioned something about loan assumptions being denied by the banks in the Humburg bankruptcy.
I will handle some of this and I will ask Brenda Walker to handle some of this.
Obviously these are both transactions that have required us to managing like a lot of asset disposition processes do.
On the Humburg side it’s not a secret that the Humburg organization in Canada has pursued a reorganization effort.
From our perspective that hasn’t really impacted us too much other than the fact that it just required us to be a little bit more involved in managing the process of disposing off these assets.
I don't want to get into too much more detail on the Humburg front.
We are feeling good about the process right now but again we just need to stay on it and drive it to a successful conclusion and when it does conclude we will be very forthcoming with more information on the Humburg front.
Brenda I don’t know if you may want to try a little bit of an update on the loan assumption side for the Discount Drug Mart? On the Discount Drug Mart side of the assumptions process we have gotten through the servicers and have received letters approving the assumptions by the buyers.
There are a few tweaks that the buyers would like to make to those assumption letters.
I have indications that these tweaks are not substantive issues.
We are now working on purchase of the sales document as well as loan assumption documents.
So things are moving along and at pace.
And if you can just maybe and Brenda I don’t know if you are the one to address this.
From my recollection there is five vacant supermarket spaces in your portfolio.
Can you just about what progress you might have made in terms of finding replacements and what’s been going on at the small shops business centers? I can give you some updates with regard to closed but (inaudible) location up in Connecticut.
We are in very serious negotiations I guess in the final stages of negotiation with a major grocery store tremendous credit to replace the entire square footage and we are very hopeful given the information that we have today that this transaction will be completed I’d say first quarter of 2012 with construction commencing probably by the end of first quarter 2012.
With regard to Kempsville Virginia where we also have a closed supervalue contact.
We have small shop there we have had no reduction in occupancy there and we’ve been renewing tenants but do have interest from a grocer to take the entire square footage of that space and probably some of the ancillary square footage.
We do have flexibility in those leases where tenants are situated that we can relocate them throughout the rest of the shopping center.
So we have had a lot of tremendous food fortune in having good conversations with retailers that look like they will commit in some of our closed And then just focusing back on the asset sales for a minute.
Throughout this list here we’ve had a 150 million.
Can you talk about may be what’s beyond that in terms of the core portfolio core (inaudible) portfolio that you might be looking to divest.
We’re not really looking to divest anything beyond that.
I think that our core portfolio is going to consist of our 70 consolidated assets.
We have a 20% interest in 22 assets in a joint venture with RioCan and our focus is going to be on maximizing the value of those assets or we don’t really have plans to divest the assets beyond that.
Our plan is to really maximize shareholder value by working those assets.
So this is really all that you have that you’re looking to get rid off at this point? Nat if I can just finish it.
We think about our leverage on a debt-to-EBITDA basis and so you know these are all the assets that you know are handsome assets from a cash flow perspective and we wouldn’t be able to reduce our leverage on a debt-to-EBITDA basis by selling those assets in particular and from a strategic perspective they make a lot of sense they fit right into our footprint.
You know there might be assets that we’re going to sell on a one-off basis but I'm of the view that residual portfolio as being an attractive portfolio for us to manage.
Well that’s what I was referring to.
I mean not so much on the deleveraging just in terms of the 70 that are left.
I mean I would assume that there’re some in there that don’t have the same growth profiles that you might be looking for going forward.
Right but we will be much more surgical with how we approach that and so I think that while I can't tell you that we’re going to own all 70 of these assets five years from now.
I can tell you that you know we’re not at this point looking to divest any of them necessarily and so to really be much more of a one-off type of an exercise as opposed to how we approach the divestiture strategy that we’re talking about now.
Okay and then just one final question on that.
The new leases that you signed do you have a same space spread on that not just to your total portfolio Hey Nat this is Phil.
On the new leases we don’t have a same state comp on that.
A lot of these assets were brought in the last few years and the way we currently have the data in our system it doesn’t just make it conducive to providing that but it’s something we’re working on.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Mr.
Paul Adornato with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
You may proceed with your question.
Thanks good afternoon.
Obviously RioCan has been the very important capital and strategic partner over the last 18 months.
I was wondering what their involvement will be in the company during this repositioning phase? Do you still anticipate making acquisitions perhaps only managed acquisitions? I think there are I guess maybe many parts what you said there.
They are not going to be involved in the process that we just described with divesting assets.
So I think that from that perspective obviously that’s something in which we’re going alone.
We’re continuing to operate the 22 assets we have with them plus they’ve been buying some assets not in an joint venture that we’ve been helping them close and manage and lease and hopefully we will continue to do that.
In terms of whether we make investments through them going forward I think that I don’t want to speak with them but my impression is that we’ve said that we found assets that may change considering our cost of capital to invest in.
I think that RioCan will be happy to continue to invest with us.
Obviously that’s something that you would have to check with [Edge] on China his team on.
But again we’ve a very good relationship with them.
If we identify assets together that makes sense for us to invest and considering our cost of capital we might invest in them.
But I think that’s right now at least the focus of this organization is and executing the plan that that we’re describing with you on the phone right now.
Okay.
And is it possible that there might be some acquisitions during this period as well or will it be just be a dispositions that you have laid out? Well as I mentioned on the call there are two acquisitions that we are making.
We are acquiring two of the assets from the Homburg joint venture.
So maybe 20% of those are going to be acquiring the 80% interest that Homburg go in.
So we will be acquiring at least two assets at the time of that joint venture gets under way which I would expect to be sometime in 2012.
Okay and with respect to the use of proceeds obviously deleveraging is very important and you’ve said what you intend to do.
But you also mentioned that a potential Cap rate that might be indicative of the portfolio that would indicate probably a net asset value for Cedar you know some place far above where their stock is trading.
And so I was wondering if a share buyback could be in the cards over the next 18 months? Yeah once we execute this plan and our capital structure in a significantly better place if we still had that opportunity we might talk about it right now.
That’s not something that we’re exploring.
Right now we are really focused on executing this plan and using the proceeds to reduce debt.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Mr.
Craig Schmidt with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
You may proceed with your question.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could give us some sense of where the CapEx may fall for the dispositions that you are targeting?  Craig you know we are not really selling things that are conducive to evaluation on a cap rate basis other than the assets that we are selling to Homburg since a lot of these things are land and malls that don’t really yield a lot.
As I mentioned on the call the effective yield on the overall disposition is going to be something around 5% just based on what we described just doing the math of $7 million to $8 million of lost NOI and roughly a $150 million of proceeds but again net proceeds.
But again that's just more of a yield than a cap rate.
I mean these factors are really conducive to cap rate type valuation.
Okay and then just as you are streamlining the geography was there any consideration about disposing the more Central or Western Pennsylvania assets? Yes.
There definitely was but again some of those were very good assets and right now at least our focus is much more on honing our focus on our shopping center portfolio from an asset type perspective and not as much trimming out certain shopping centers within the overall portfolio.
So your point is fair and there's no question that the Western Pennsylvania assets could be ones that we take a hard look at once the dust settles on this divestiture program but right now that's not what we are focusing on.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Mr.
Rj Milligan with Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
You may proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
most of my questions have been answered.
I was wondering in the portfolio excluding the properties marked for dispositions what's the small shop occupancy? Well we are about 84.3 in our small shop occupancy.
Rj its Nancy.
Okay and I guess how does that compare to say a year ago? I mean on the call you gave I guess in your prepared remarks you said that there was significant room for improvement.
Is that from an occupancy perspective is that a mix in terms of getting the right tenants and where do you see the room for improvement there.
The room for improvement is on the occupancy side.
We see – that’s when you think about our overall portfolio being in the low 90’s one to the low 90’s then you think about our small shop space and this is already improvement over where its been we’re saying that that’s really where there is room for improvement obviously there is just driving occupancy there would clearly help our cash flow.
And I was wondering if you could give any color on the Board’s thought before we got here and to cut the dividend now versus may be two quarters ago when you guys came in or a quarter when you guys came in and any thoughts there? Hey Rj its Phil.
I can’t really give you color on the Board’s thought before we got here but you know once we got here really it wasn’t one thing these decisions typically aren’t -- it was a balance of several things.
Looking in our fad looking at our tax needs the flexibility we needed during that time we executed this plan and as a result of all that we decided to set the target where it’s at.
(Operator Instructions) Ladies and gentlemen our last question is coming from the line of Mr.
Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
I am here with Jordan Sadler as well.
Bruce just following up on that small shop leasing and the focus where you know that you expect to report increased occupancy in that segment; what are your plans for the improvements and what are you seeing today that’s giving you that confidence? Well it takes time I am sorry I don’t if anybody on speaker; there is a little bit of an echo there.
We’re already starting to make progress there and we’ve launched a number of initiatives that really aren’t worth not getting into in too much detail on this call to give us – that make us optimistic that there we’re going to see occupancy improved or continue to improve on the small shop front and you know the practical reality is that it just takes time between when we get from an LOI to a leased to when occupancy tick-up and so we have just based on the pipeline that we’re seeing a degree of confidence that we’re going to see improvement there.
And then a question for Phil on the balance sheet; how much availability do you have on the lines today I see that there’s $166 million outstanding with how much dry powder actual availability do you have on those lines that you could draw down on today? Yeah I believe today its right around $80 million.
And so for the new $300 million facility the $225 million revolver you know much do you project at closing that you’ll have available with based on the collateral that will be securing the line? We’ll have to wait for all the new appraisals in order to come in but it should be a similar borrowing base and we should be able to with the proceeds above and beyond that that’s repay increased availability by about 50.
And I think -- and Todd I am looking at right here I think our current availability is closer to 70.
And then Bruce a bigger picture of question I guess following up on Paul’s question assuming the asset sales go as planned and you will down the portfolio to this new portfolio of core assets.
What’s your revision or initial thoughts surrounding Cedar’s growth in the future? I think that some of the answer to that question would be function of where our cost of capital settles out after we get through this whole process.
But I think that broadly speaking what you’re going to see from us is a more disciplined approach to how we use our capital and a greater focus on enhancing the value of our assets and mining our existing portfolio for value creation of opportunities.
And so again some of this will be a function of where our cost of capital settles out in terms of the extent to which we can identify acquisition opportunities that makes sense and when we think add shareholder value.
But I think one characteristic is you’ll see our company is a much disciplined approach to how we use our capital and you’ll see us realistically mining our portfolio for a lot of the growth that hopefully you’ll see out of the company in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen our final question is coming from the line of Mr.
Nathan Isbee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Your line is open.
You may proceed with your question.
Just one quick follow-up the development and redevelopment CapEx number have jumped quite a bit too about $13 million for the quarter; can you just give a little color what was behind that? Yeah Nathan its Phil Mays.
The majority of that was Trexlertown where we are building out for the signed giant lease there.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the floor back to Mr.
Schanzer for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this evening and what we feel is an important call in the history of our company.
We realize winning back the trust of the investor community is not accomplished in matter of days or weeks and it’s not achieved with a single earnings call.
However one thing I could tell you is that we expect the coming years to be very rewarding for our company and its stake holders.
Have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you very much for your participation.
Have a wonderful evening.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen Investor Relations for ICR.
Thank you Mr.
Cohen.
You may begin.
Thank you very much operator.
Good afternoon.
At this time management like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press releases which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the end the company undertakes no obligations to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thanks Brad.
And welcome to the fourth quarter 2011 earnings call of Cedar Realty Trust.
On this call in addition to reviewing our fourth quarter 2011 and full year 2011 results we will provide an update on the strategic plan we first described last November we will describe some of the important steps we have taken in renewing our focus on leasing as well as measures we have taken to start creating value through intensive asset management.
Lastly we will provide guidance for 2012.
On this call I’m joined by the senior management team of Cedar specifically Philip Mays our CFO; Brenda Walker our COO; Nancy Mozzachio our Head of Leasing; Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions; Tom Richey our Head of Development; and Stuart Widowski our General Counsel.
Just about all team Cedar is dialed into this call as well.
I would like to take a moment to acknowledge their many contributions.
Although you will hear three people doing most of the talking on this call there are over a 100 members of team Cedar and each of them is critical to us achieving our objectives.
Since beginning at Cedar in June of 2011 with Phil the reconstituted management team had endeavored to bring strategic and financial rigor to Cedar’s decision making and business planning.
As we enter 2012 we are starting to see our efforts begin to produce results though there was much work ahead of us and it will take time before we can say that Cedar has become what we intend for it a strong performing shopping center REIT that delivers compelling results on a consistent basis.
Over the past eight months there has been one major focus at Cedar in furtherance of this objective namely developing and then executing our near-term strategic plan which includes three primary elements divesting non-core assets using the proceeds to reduce leverage and focusing our energies on our core portfolio of 92 primarily grocery-anchored shopping centers straddling the Washington DC to Boston corridor.
In the course of developing and implementing this plan we have transformed Cedar into a more analytical and disciplined organization that is keenly focused on growing net asset value through intensive asset management and thoughtful capital allocation.
In terms of our near-term strategic plan we have made solid progress on our disposition program.
Of the approximately 50 assets we are divesting we have already closed on 15 sales generating roughly $40 million for debt reduction.
In addition we have 24 assets either under contract or teed-up to be return to a lender that should generate an additional $65 million for debt reduction.
Thus at this juncture we are roughly 70% completed with our near-term strategic plan since we have approximately $105 million of the $150 million either closed under contract or to be return to a lender.
The 15 sales closed to date include 11 of our Ohio assets our two net leased CVS assets at Kinderhook and Kingston as well as our two unanchored strip centers in Virginia Virginia Center Commons and Salem Run.
I will not get into extensive detail on each asset under contract.
In summary eight net leased assets the seven Homburg joint venture assets our one Michigan Center Stadium Plaza and four land parcels are all under contract.
Four assets most notably our Roosevelt II asset are being return to the lender.
Remaining to be divested are our three in close mall assets two unanchored centers in Pennsylvania and a number of land parcels.
Although some of these divestitures will take time we’ll remain committed to this process and we’ll continue to drive hard to effect these dispositions while maintaining some pricing discipline when appropriate.
As Nancy and Phil will discuss in greater detail our attracted core portfolio of primary grocery-anchored shopping centers straddling the Washington DC to Boston corridor remain resilient and defensive with solid leasing results steady rent growth and strong performance.
In addition as I will briefly touch on we continue to create value within our portfolio through discipline capital allocations coupled with intensive asset management.
On the leasing front we had a solid fourth quarter with total leasing volume of meaningfully in every category over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Notably on the small shop front leasing velocity continue to strengthen throughout the year with volumes up one-third in the second half of the year over the first two quarters.
As Nancy will discuss in her remarks we’ve implemented programs that are specifically focused on our small shop spaces in order to maintain and grow occupancy in this tenant category.
Focusing on renewals for a moment we have continued our remarkable street of positive renewals spreads.
We now have posted positive spreads in 32 of the last 33 quarters.
The leasing group has done a traffic job of anchor leasing with a special focus on the six dark anchors sprinkled around our portfolio.
We are currently negotiating leases or letters of intent at four of the six centers.
All of these transactions have a similar characteristic and that we are exclusively trading a higher per square foot rent from a weaker tenant who is not operating its store for a lower rent per square foot from a higher credit tenant who will operate their store.
We feel this is a good long-term trade-off since by restoring an active anchor.
We improve the centers vitality resolve co-tenancies in certain instances and improve the overall credit profile of our tenant roster.
Generally we expect to start seeing the impact of this improve leasing activity on the bottom line whether of the small shop or larger anchor variety towards the end of 2012 and during 2013.
Although we have scaled back our development and redevelopment business so it is more appropriately size to our overall capital base and provide a suitable spread to our cost of capital our redevelopment projects at both Trexlertown and Brickyard which are now underway are examples of projects where we have invested significant capital back into our centers while asset managing them in a manner that generate attractive risk adjusted returns.
At Trexlertown Plaza in December we delivered to Giant a new 74 000-square foot store that just about the tripled the rent we have been receiving from them in our neighboring Trexler Mall.
We have back filled one-half of the 54 000-square foot space vacated by Giant in moving to its new location with a Marshalls at per square foot rents close to double what we had been receiving from Giant.
We are highly optimistic of filling the balance of the vacated Giant space and our advance discussions with a number of perspective tenants.
The incremental NOI from the redevelopment and re-tenanting of these neighboring properties will be approximately $1.9 million which represents a yield on incremental capital investment of between 11% and 12%.
At our Brickyard property we have undertaken a redevelopment to replace 110 000-square foot Sam's Club that vacated a center with two or three new tenants.
We executed a lease in December with Kohl’s for a 58 000-square foot store that is now under construction.
Kohl’s expects to open in October of 2012.
We are speaking with a number of perspective tenants for the balance of the vacant space.
We anticipate generating an NOI yield on our incremental investment of at least 11% at this property as well.
Going forward you should expect that we will target these sorts of yields in deciding to pursue a redevelopment project.
We recognize it is imperative that there be a sufficient spread over our cost of capital to account for the execution risks inherent in such undertaking.
More generally as we contemplate completing our near-term strategic objective we will increase our focus on maximizing the value of our resilient and defensive portfolio of primary grocery-anchored shopping centers that straddle the Washington DC to Boston corridor and further intensifying that footprint through selective acquisitions.
A central element of this long-term strategy will include taking a much more disciplined approach to our capital allocation decisions which will hopefully translate into appropriate risk adjusted return and ultimately value creation opportunities for the benefit of our shareholders.
With that I give you Nancy Mozzachio our Head of Leasing.
Thank you Bruce.
Well economic recovery remain choppy our leasing results evidence the defensiveness and resiliency of our centers as well as the lure of high growth in supermarket to tenants large and small.
As Bruce discussed we solve sizable leasing velocity improvement in 2011 versus 2010 in every category anchor dark anchor mid-sized anchor small shop and temporarily leasing.
New leases commencing in the fourth quarter totaled 146 000-square feet up 23% over the same period in 2010.
Total volume for 2011 was up approximately 34% over 2010 with a sizable increase in small shop activity in the last half of the year and overall absorption rate increasing 60% over 2010.
Let’s break it down by category.
Anchor volume was up 50% in 2011 over 2010.
In 2011 we completed transactions with Giant Kohl’s Carmike Cinemas as well as expansion of two of our well-established supermarket in Central Pennsylvania.
Activity levels on darks but paying grocer locations are up substantially year-over-year.
In Connecticut we are in advanced negotiation to replace a dark Shaw's box concurrently discussion concerning replacement in some cases replacement and expansion of three other dark boxes meaningfully progress.
We see credit worthy replacement anchor tenants capable of producing strong sales for the asset.
In doing so rent may not always meet dark box contractual rent.
However the trade-off is often value creation through ancillary tenant lease up lease rollover rate and cap rate associated with the property.
Mid-sized anchor transactions in 2011 were up meaningfully over 2010.
We lease and delivered a T.J.
Maxx at The Commons in Dubois Pennsylvania and A.C.
Moore at Upland Square in Pottstown Pennsylvania.
We signed leases with Michael's at Coliseum Marketplace in Hamptom Virginia and with Marshalls at Trexler Mall in Trexlertown Pennsylvania.
Both Michael’s and Marshalls expect to open at their respective location by the end of the third quarter of this year.
It’s worth noting looking at today’s numbers first quarter 2012 lease and LOI negotiations with mid-sized anchors already exceed volume achieved in all of 2011.
Exceed drivers in anchor and mid-sized anchor velocity is started last year with two folds.
First the lack of new construction is forcing retailers to see mid-sized centers that have strong sales volume characteristic.
And second high operating costs associated within closed malls are driving some retailers out as they seek improvement in profitability.
Centers such as ours straddling the Washington DC to Boston corridor are in demand and our centers are becoming beneficiaries of this emerging trend.
Small shop leasing increased as well this is one of our core focuses.
Quarter four 2011 small shop volume is more than doubled that of 2010.
The trend continues into 2012.
In fact when we look at small shop leases already executed in 2012 but not yet delivered we see volumes approaching 200% over the same period in 2011.
Last year we found small shop success with franchise concept dollar stores and quick service restaurants as well as the continued integration of health related and medical uses in our centers.
Specifically in 2011 we began an excitingly small shop program as per leasing activity in five of our assets with concentration of long standing small shop vacancies.
The hallmark of the program set base rent for severance vacancies at rent slightly inside prevailing market rate for the subject trade area and requires no landlord capital.
One activity -- once activity at a select center is generated and momentum begin rent are gradually increased through other remaining vacancies.
The success of the program to date is best summed up by the dramatic improvement to one center in New Jersey.
We began the program last fall the center requesting was 86% occupied and contained nine vacancies.
In a little less than four months five vacancies were leased to three separate tenants one tenant opened in December and two tenants are under construction leased occupancy jumped 6.6% and new activity levels are at rate not seen in several years.
We completed 82 000-square feet of renewals in the quarter and 708 000-square feet for the year renewal spreads remained consistent and positive a key is achieved for many quarters.
Volumes for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 were consistent with cyclical nature of lease exploration and retention rates were up from 2010 although historically speaking our rent retention rates are quite in the 85% range.
Despite challenges to the economy in 2011 more tenants committed to our properties than the previous year probably leasing volumes in all size categories.
Although leases were executed in 2011 it is important to note that we expect rent commence for these tenants to occur over each quarterly period in 2012 with a largest new tenants commencing in the fourth quarter of this year.
Slight improvement in consumer spending thus far keeps us cautiously optimistic about leasing volumes for this year where we hope to achieve positive results in our core property.
With that I’ll hand the call over to Phil.
Thank Nancy.
Good afternoon everyone.
I will briefly highlight our financial and property operating results provide an update on our balance sheet and discuss our initial FFO guidance for 2012 before giving the call back to Bruce for a closing comment.
Beginning with the operating results this is a third quarter in a row we are reporting recurring FFO of $0.12 per diluted share.
This is a decrease of $0.02 per share versus 4Q of 2010.
We are also reporting $0.49 of FFO per diluted share for the full year 2012.
This is a decrease of $0.10 per diluted share versus the prior year.
In both cases and consistent with our last call these decreases are driven by lower acquisition fees from our RioCan JV and lost rent from the IRS vacating two properties in Philadelphia that are in the process of being return to the lender.
The progress we are making on dispositions will have a further impact on this current rate of $0.12 per quarter and I’ll discuss that in a minute.
Now looking at same-center results same-center NOI excluding redevelopment increased 2.9% for the quarter and just over 1% for the full year.
The strong quarter results were generated by occupancy gains along with the decrease in bad debt expense.
Including redevelopment same-center NOI increased 3.9% and 2.3% for the quarter and year respectively.
The positive spread over same-center excluding redevelopment results from lease up at Townfair Center over the year and than the new Giant coming on lease or coming online at Trexlertown Plaza in 4Q 2011.
With respect to occupancy we finished the year with total occupancy at 91.6% and same-center occupancy at 93.3% a 110 and 30 basis point increase respectively over last year.
Now occupancy may temporarily decrease if we make progress filling our dark rent paying anchors due to the down time between the new anchors opening and the exist of the current dark anchors.
However if progress is made replacing these dark anchors it will obviously result in long-term value creation.
Focusing on the balance sheet as we reported in the January press release we closed on the new $300 million secured credit facility that combined and replaced our existing $185 million stabilized facility and $150 million development facility.
The new consist of three-year $225 million revolver and a full year $75 million term loan that both have one year extension options and bare interest at LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 200 to 300 basis points determined by our leverage ratio.
The spread is 275 basis points based on the current leverage.
This new facility along with our disposition strategy will contribute to a lower cost of capital and more financial flexibility.
Before turning to guidance I do want to note that along with our 10-K and supplement filed earlier today we are also filing an S3 and 2SAs.
The S3 is to reestablish an active shelf with the terms -- with consistent terms of our prior shelf that expired 1SA related to the prior shareholder approval of an increase in the number of shares available for stock incentive plan and the other SA relates to certain [LP] units.
Finally I would like to walk through recurring FFO guidance.
We are setting our initial 2012 guidance at $0.40 to $0.45 per diluted share.
This takes into account a progress are making on the dispositions.
Remember on the third quarter call we noted our dispositions would be $2 million to $3 million or $0.03 to $0.04 per diluted share on an annual basis.
Subtracting this $0.03 to $0.04 per share from our current run rate of $0.12 per quarter or $0.48 per year you have the high-end of our range.
The low-end of our range takes into account the timing of these dispositions.
We are already closed on the majority of our Ohio assets in late 2011 and early 2012 and these are the most dilutive dispositions of the various categories we have discussed.
Further taking into account the timing in which the remaining dispositions are lining up it is possible that a significant portion of our diluted dispositions will occur first followed by the dispositions that are flat or accretive to FFO such as our land mall sales and completing the buy sale of the Homburg JV.
Accordingly we provided a low-end to our range that takes into account this possibility.
Our guidance also includes same-center and occupancy growth of flat to 1% positive.
And with that I’ll turn the call back to Bruce.
Thanks Phil and thank you everyone for joining us on this call.
2011 represented an important year for Cedar in that we effected a fundamental management transition which resulted in a cultural change and strategic shift that we expect will lead to significant improvements in Cedar’s performance over the coming years.
2012 will be a year of evolution as we implement our strategic plan and start to see the seeds we planted towards the end of 2011 and in early 2012 begin to take root and hopefully start to bear fruit during the second half of the year and into 2013.
With that we will open the call to any questions you might have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Looking at the second piece of your asset sales that’s the 24 properties of $65 million.
How soon will those be close that under contract and is there any work to be done on those that are been return to the lender? Okay.
So let me answer those questions in the order which you asked them.
In terms of the timing we are driving them pretty hard.
I think that I would surprised if they blend much past the end of the third quarter that sort of how we are thinking about internally.
It’s hard to control the space some of these require landlord I mean I’m sorry lender approvals that we can’t perfectly control and so again our -- in terms of how we are thinking about it we think about these things at the offset closing by the end of the year and we are hoping that they close by the end of the third quarter.
In terms of the assets being return to the lender our corporate objective in my direction to Brenda Walker who is being heading that is to try and spend as little money as we possibly can some of these loans have non-recourse carve outs we obviously don’t want to attribute those but with the specific exception we’re avoiding triggering the non-recourse progress we are trying to spend as little money as possible on those assets.
Okay.
And then sort of on the third tranche or third piece rather the $45 million loan assets.
Are you getting much response from those assets or is little slower going then the initial first two pieces? I would say I would really divide that up into a couple of categories.
Some of those assets are currently being marketed and I alluded the pricing discipline we are some of these assets we received offers on and we are working those deals some of them we are currently marketing and waiting to get deals some of those assets we haven’t yet brought to market because we’re looking for the lease up and so they really there is not one answer to how to characterize all those assets.
One thing I would say that only five of the 11 are improved assets right.
So the rest or balance are land assets and they are between close malls and two non-mall improved retail assets since I would characterize those differently in the sense that most of the value that we are talking about remaining is in those five improved assets and much less that is in the land.
Okay.
Thanks.
Very much.
You got it Craig.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Rj Milligan with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Pretty good progress on disposition so far.
I’m just curious who is on the other side of these transactions who are the -- who been the buyers? It really varies it really varies I wouldn’t characterize then with any kind of single characterization may vary from very sophisticated institutional buyers to local developers and local small time investors.
It really just -- it varies by the asset [by the result].
Okay.
And so I’m curious if what’s the same-store NOI guidance or can you provide same-store NOI guidance for 2012 what this core portfolios going to do? Yeah.
So in our guidance it provide for same-store growth between flat and 1% excluding redevelopment.
For ’11 we did 1% excluding redevelopment 2% with redevelopment.
We’d hope to get there again we disappointed if we didn’t but if we keep in mind the strong defensive and stable nature of our assets should economy improve that will moderate the same characteristics will moderate the growth the little but in the guidance flat to 1%.
So would that be backend loaded into third and fourth quarters with the leasing that you guys have done in Q4 of 2011? Yeah.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Adornato with BMO.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I’m trying to understand the leasing activity and the effect on cash flow? And so I was wondering if you could tell us what the difference or the gap between signed leases and rent paying leases is and if you could exclude the noise surrounding the re-anchoring of the dark spaces? Yeah.
We’ll – this is Phil Paul.
With most of the leases that Nancy talked about are all coming online such as Kohl’s very very late in the year.
So I don’t think that will be backend loaded the same with the same-store growth towards the end of the year.
Okay.
And what’s the could you quantify the impact of re-anchoring the dark spaces? Extremely we’re to do that would be lost rent we hopefully we would push our term fee too that would probably wash out so there is a lot of moving parts there as we work through them.
If we do achieve one of those Paul and if that significant we’d update our guidance at that point in time.
Paul this is Bruce.
The only thing that I would add is that dramatically the description that I gave is pretty much how we are thinking about it which is lot of these dark anchors pay pretty stable rents and the pure cash flow oriented manager might say we are just going to keep milking these things until they run out but just thinking about this portfolio from a long-term perspective and again managing it to try to maximize the value of the asset in the aggregate we’ve decided -- we made a decision that we are going to compromise and we are going to take best rent in difficult from a replacement tenant.
But generally speaking we are speaking with tenants who are better credit quality tenants than the tenants who currently occupy the dark anchors and so again they will definitely be a reduction in the rent per square foot at least in the ones that we’re talking about right now as Phil mentioned hopefully we get a term fee that might mitigate some of that lost but at least based on the numbers that we are working through right now what we think in terms of the appreciation in value overwhelms and offsets that rent reduction that sort of the calculus that we are making as we think about filling our dark anchors.
Okay.
That certainly makes sense of the strategy.
With respect to the new rents on the anchor spaces would you characterize them as add market or slightly below market in order to get that better credit quality? Those are add market I mean with Nancy was describing before where were pricing spaces slightly inside of market are really very very limited type of strategies that are only applied to small shop spaces where there is several vacancies.
But in the case of dark anchor we are really getting the rent we are patiently making deals with new anchors but we are certainly not going to take it below market rent where we are already taking a haircut over the rent that we are receiving.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from the line of Todd Thomas with Keybanc.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
With regard to the asset sale plans overall in the past you’d discussed that $7 million to $8 million of NOI that you would loose associated with the full 50 properties that you plan to sell? And based on your comments should we assume that the bulk of that NOI is already accounted for in the completed asset sells and what’d under contract? You know Todd I’m looking at Phil here.
I think the basically the way to think about it is that about half of it was in our Ohio dispositions and half of it in everything also with our Ohio deals done we are just about half way through the NOI loss.
Okay.
Because it’s sounded like some of the land sales some of the property sales later on will be accretive so I was… Yeah.
… wondering if.
Of that.
So do the first and second tranche of property sales account for more than $7 million to $8 million of lost NOI? No.
Well this is distinguished between when you’re talking about tranches there is what we have closed and there is what we have under contract and then there is what we have remaining to sell.
What we have closed on is essentially our Ohio assets with handful of other assets.
The Ohio assets represented about half of dilutive impact from an NOI perspective of all the dispositions we are making the balance of the assets that we sold may be throwing the other million bucks or so.
So basically what we sold so far again runs about half of the lost NOI it’s actually mean by the first tranche and that’s -- I would say the answer is yeah.
Right.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just a question on guidance for Phil kind of technical but is there any change in the non-cash rental income on the income statement the amortization of intangible lease liabilities I know it’s non-cash but in the past that’s been a fact there in estimating rental income and FFO? So just wondering if there is any change in that line item that we should think about for models for 2012? Yeah.
The company does have what you are talking about kind of the significant amount of the low market leases that are getting amortized to income because that timing when those assets were bought and the average leases on those that is them bleeding off between $11 and $10 decrease about $1 million.
I mean it’s likely to decrease maybe another $0.5 million over ’12.
Okay.
All right.
That’s helpful.
And then I was just wondering if you could comment Food Lion maybe just give us an update on the seven stores that you have and then whether you had conversations with them about their strategy going forward for your centers? Hey.
I think our position in our conversation with Food Lion that those stores we have are strong stores many of the changes that were announced or converting bottom dollars toward back to Food Lion all of our Food Lion are in fact all full line Food Lion stores generating healthy sales.
So we’ve heard nothing that reports to closures or any closures and anything in our portfolio.
Okay.
And then just lastly with regard to RioCan they’ve been vocal about their desire to continue sourcing deals in the U.S.
and establishing U.S.
management platform.
I was just wondering if you have any thoughts about where your relationship with RioCan might be headed during the course of the year? Well let me answer that question I guess you sort of have two-part there I can help you with one part and you’d have to speak with the folks at RioCan about the other part.
In terms of sourcing deals we continue to work with them to have them source deals and we are helping them look at deals now.
So I could tell you that that definitely inactive and dynamic and constructive relationship that we have with them.
As we’ve mentioned before we are not currently putting out capital and so this is strictly done as part of the RioCan relationship.
We do get a financial benefit and as much as we get fees from these transactions but this is also just part of the overall very good strong personal relationship that we have with the folks at RioCan.
In terms of their objectives I’ve read the same thing you’ve read and I don’t make decisions for RioCan you have to speak to the RioCan folks about what their intentions are as it relates to their growth plans beyond the deals that we are doing with them in United States.
Okay.
Would you be interested in taking a large role in managing assets for them? Well to be clear we are managing the assets that we are acquiring for them in the Northeast and we are happy to do it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Got it.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I’d like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Schanzer for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a good evening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen Investor Relations for ICR.
Thank you Mr.
Cohen.
You may begin.
Thank you very much operator.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press release which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the end the company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thanks Brad.
And welcome to the first quarter 2012 earnings call of Cedar Realty Trust.
On this call in addition to reviewing our first quarter 2012 results we will provide an update on the strategic plan we first described last November as well as some of the other measures we are taking to preserve and enhance shareholder value.
On this call I am joined by the senior management team of Cedar specifically Philip Mays our CFO; Brenda Walker our COO; Nancy Mozzachio our Head of Leasing; Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions; Tom Richey our Head of Development; and Stuart Widowski our General Counsel.
In addition to Phil's comments regarding our Q1 results I would ask Nancy to provide a brief update on leasing.
As always the balance of team Cedar is dialed into this call.
Their tireless efforts on behalf of the company are what allow us to report these solid results and give us great confidence in the future of this organization.
Although our fourth-quarter call was just a couple of months ago we continue to make progress on our near-term divestiture and delevering strategic plan having closed on 11 assets for net proceeds of $18 million and having placed four additional assets under contract for $8 million during the first quarter through today.
Accordingly of the 50 assets to be divested and $150 million in net proceeds for delevering we have closed on have under contract or have teed up to return to a lender 40 assets for $110 million.
This represents roughly 73% completed based on estimated proceeds.
We feel good about the progress we have made today though we are keenly focused on closing on the assets under contract yet to be sold and getting the remaining assets under contract.
In terms of the remaining assets there are four improved assets and six land parcels still to be divested as we have noted repeatedly the land parcels will take time to sell.
Fortunately they do not represent the significant amount of value.
The improved assets that remain to be put under contract are generally being leased up or otherwise repositioned before being divested.
Regarding these improved assets we are confident in our ability to sell them within the timeframe articulated last November once they are appropriately repositioned.
In terms of leasing as Nancy will discuss in greater detail during her remarks we continue to make strong progress on our leasing activities in general and on our small shop and dark anchor leasing initiatives in particular.
Although our aggregate occupancy was down this quarter relative to the fourth quarter to 90.6% this is an example of taking one step back to take many steps forward.
The occupancy drop was almost entirely a function of two anchor departures both of which we anticipated one in each of our two active redevelopment projects.
In Trexlertown Pennsylvania as planned Giant vacated a 55 000 ft.² store in Trexler Mall asset to move to a 75000 ft.² store in our neighboring Trexlertown Plaza Center and in a fortuitous turn of events since departed from Brickyard in Berlin Connecticut due to a lease expiration shortly before filing for bankruptcy protection.
In both instances we had ample time to prepare for the tenant departures and are highly confident we will be re-leasing the vacated spaces for meaningfully higher rents.
In the case of the vacated Giant space in Trexler Mall we have already re-leased half the vacated space at almost two times the prior base rent per square foot thereby replacing just about all of the lost rent.
I'm pleased that the leasing group has achieved solid results in terms of both new leases and renewals with a relatively minimal capital investment.
This is consistent to the [theme] we have emphasized since the beginning of my tenure at Cedar that we intend to focus first and foremost on maintaining capital discipline in both operations and redevelopment.
On that note we continue to push hard to complete our two active redevelopment projects.
We have also identified additional potential redevelopment opportunities within our portfolio as well as a number of potential out parcel and land side development opportunities.
In studying these projects and determining whether to pursue them our decision will be based on whether this would be a judicious use of capital after considering our investment alternatives weighing our cost of capital and assessing whether the subject investment affords us an adequate spread to that cost of capital.
With all that said we are keenly focused on mining our portfolio for investment opportunities.
We should expect thoughtful portfolio reinvestment and redevelopment to be a significant theme at Cedar in the coming quarters and years.
One last item to touch on relates to our RioCan joint venture which encompasses 22 assets containing $3.7 million square feet.
With the buy-sell provision under the joint venture agreement becoming effective later this year we have received numerous questions concerning our posture and strategy in this regard.
Although we do not know all of RioCan’s intentions we recognize that the centers in the joint venture are potentially impacted by RioCan’s express plans to establish a U.S.
platform.
At this juncture we are very focused on the situation and are making sure that regardless of the direction it takes Cedar shareholder value is maximized to the greatest extent possible.
We do not have any further details to provide at this point.
Although we expect that in the coming quarters we will be in a position to provide additional color.
With that I give you Nancy.
Thank you Bruce.
Our solid leasing results for the quarter evidenced our focus on increasing shareholder value by intensively working out existing assets especially through aggressive lease numbers.
During the first quarter we again had success on both a new lease and renewal front.
In addition we've continued this quarter with our laser focus on dark anchor and small shop leasing.
These initiatives have produced a velocity not seen in several years.
I am happy to report we made advances on both of these critical fronts during the quarter with a 50 basis point improvement in small shop occupancy and the execution of a lease with Wal-Mart Neighborhood Market to replace a dark anchor at our Bristol Connecticut center.
Within Cedar’s consolidated portfolio we signed 38 leases including both new leases and renewals aggregating 205 000 square feet.
We executed 11 new leases for the quarter within a consolidated portfolio totaling 75 000 square feet as well as another 10 leases totaling 28 000 square feet within the RioCan joint venture.
Notably excluding the new Wal-Mart Neighborhood Market lease in Bristol Connecticut for which the economics for about a negative 21.1% spread we had an 8.9% positive spreads on the comparable leases within our wholly-owned portfolio.
In terms of renewal activity we renewed 129 000 square feet for the quarter at a 6.2% positive spread on a cash basis.
These positive renewal spreads are consistent with many prior quarters.
Renewal activity levels have been strong and we've already renewed over 50% of leases due to expire in 2012 and have renewed 15% of leases due to expire in 2013.
As noted we replaced the dark (inaudible) Shaw’s in Bristol Connecticut with a Wal-Mart neighborhood market under a new 15-year lease.
Wal-Mart expects to open late summer.
This is a perfect example of what we described in our fourth quarter call to since it’s a bit of modest rate reduction in exchange for dramatic upgrade in tenant credit quality from non-investment grade to AA resulting in a substantial improvement to the value and vitality of that center.
Of the five remaining dark anchors we are making good progress in our discussions with replacement anchors at three of the centers where we contemplate similar or perhaps even better outcomes.
On a small shop front we continue to experience positive momentum with occupancy up to 83.3%.
A sequential improvement of 50 basis points.
We’re seeing improvement in small shop activity in all regions of the portfolio especially centers that which are at-the-market small shop leasing program as in full force.
To date we produced three leases under the aftermarket program and have another six in the pipe line.
We’re already starting to see that the energy created by new tenants entering centers with long-term vacancies will allow us to move rent upwards with perspective and visiting tenants.
Our focus on small leasing will continue and our hope is to produce meaningful gains in occupancy and revenue.
One final note is that the tenant improvement dollars connected to all new leases for the quarter were spent sparingly carefully preserving our capital.
This is especially the case with both our dark anchor and small shop initiatives.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Phil.
Thanks Nancy and good afternoon everyone.
I will review our operating results provide an update on our balance sheet briefly discuss a couple of accounting items and touch on our guidance.
Starting with operating results we are reporting recurring FFO of $0.11 per diluted share for the quarter.
The variance from prior quarters is primarily a result of certain completed assets dispositions and as discussed on prior calls the IRS vacating two properties in Philadelphia in mid-2011.
Same store NOI excluding redevelopment increased 3.9% for the quarter.
Now about half of this increase came from lower snow removal cost with the remainder of the improvement coming from a reduction in bad debt and strong leasing.
Including redevelopment same-center NOI increased 5.2%.
The positive spread over same-center excluding redevelopments was driven a new Giant coming on line Trexler Plaza late in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Regarding occupancy total occupancy was 90.6% at the end of the quarter compared to 91.6% last quarter and 90.2% last year.
As Bruce discussed the decline in occupancy in last quarter resulted from plan tenant move out at our redevelopment properties.
It is important to note here that we are 91.8% leased.
This is a 120 basis point spread of our current occupancy and is primarily attributable to signed leases for two key anchors at redevelopment properties the Kohls at Brickyard and Marshalls at Trexler Mall.
Excluding the temporary ups and down in occupancy associated with redevelopment activity our same-center occupancy is consistent with last quarter at 93.2% and up 80 basis point over the last year.
Moving to our balance sheet and disposition progress.
A reported debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 8.8 time.
Although we are 73% of the rate to our $150 million delevering goal based on assets sold under contract or to be a return to lender our reported debt-to-EBITDA only reflects assets sales that have closed by the end of the quarter.
Also as previously communicated the timing of our dispositions are lining up so that they’re alluded to flat dispositions occurring earlier in our process than our accretive dispositions such as land and mall sales.
Just a couple of accounting and reporting notes before turning to guidance.
In our effort to continue to improve our supplemental we are now including tenant improvement costs with our reported leasing activity.
And to be clear these costs include both tenant allowances and landlord work.
At year end we also reviewed and updated our allocations between operations and G&amp;A.
This update resulted in about $600 000 increase in our quarterly G&amp;A and of course decrease in property operating costs.
Important note the tenant adjustment had no economic impact.
It does not increase the cash to run the company nor does it affect FFO.
Also the same store NOI growth is not impacted specifically the concept percentage of revenue to allocate cost for properties for extrapolation.
Both of these changes provide reporting that is more consistent with our peers and we believe these improvements along with the other recent revisions we have made to our supplemental will ultimately highlight to others what we see; a solid core portfolio of shopping centers and a consistent performance.
And finally guidance we are reaffirming our 2012 guidance of $0.40 to $0.45 per diluted share although we are pleased with our first quarter results and the progress we are making in executing our near term strategic objective we are mindful of the potential that the timing of the closing of our dispositions may have on earnings.
Additionally we elected to experience further temporary reductions in occupancy if we make more progress filling our dark rent paying anchors due to the down time between the new anchors opening and the exit of the dark anchors.
With that I’ll turn it back to Bruce.
Thanks Phil and thank you everyone for joining us on this call.
2012 continues to see shape up as an important year in the evolution of this company.
We are every excited about the progress we continue to make on all three of our focus areas.
First we are far long in executing our divestiture and de-levering strategy.
Second we are making great strides in terms of our new focus on intensive asset management especially on both our small shop and dark anchor leasing initiatives.
Finally we are in the home stretch on our two asset redevelopments and are mining our Washington DC to Boston Grocery Anchored portfolio for newly development opportunities which we will identify and describe in more detail on future calls.
With that we will open the call for any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
First of all maybe can you talk a little bit more about the same store NOI; I guess just specifically this quarter with all the leasing activities same store revenue was down close to 4% and then maybe how you see this same store NOI trend in general throughout 2012? You know in our supplement when you look at the center page the revenues combined base rent and recoveries both so on a combined basis they are down around 4%.
Base rent is actually slightly positive a little less than 1% but its positive and the decrease in recoveries is no less.
That make that combined lines decrease.
And then yes for the quarter we are reporting NOI growth of 30.9% which I said in my remarks about half of that came from the snow the favorable comp of snow which leaves us about two.
In our guidance we originally talked about flat to 1%.
I think that's still a good run rate the Wal-Mart lease that Nancy spoke about and Bruce spoke about in open comments replacing the dark rent paying shop will then be down time there and a little low down on rent there that will offset a lot of the pick-up this quarter and I think it will get us for the full year back in kind of that guidance range.
And then just moving to the Wal-Mart lease; can you just talk a little bit more about the economics in terms of what you might have to spend there in terms of turn allowances? Yeah there is no CI there.
It’s as is they are consistent with our initiatives here and we’re talking through which will replace some of little to no cost as possible.
And then it seems like [Winter] picked up a few more shares recently; do you have any recent conversations that you could share with us perhaps in terms of what your understanding is their intentions are? We do speak in term of their as you can see by the fact they are buying stock.
They are long oriented in investors here and seeing with Michael Ashner and I think that is interest are very much aligned with the interest of shareholders generally; we feel that they want our share price to go and they want good progress on executing strategic plan.
We’ve identified now that caused our share price to go up.
So I think if want more color you might speak to him as far as we understand it in our conversion and yeah we do chat with him from time to time.
He seems to be oriented on a long basis and he seems to be supportive of what we’re trying to do here.
Are there any thoughts your plan to provide Winter puts worker presentation? Yeah never come.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question is from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
How the acquisition market changed let’s say from late 2011 to I guess early spring 2012 particularly when we think about the full improved assets in the six land parcels? The market for the land parcels remain pretty much where it was; it’s not a great market; people are really leaning into development opportunities and so we mark those assets down.
I think we are pretty confident we’ll be able to sell them for roughly where we have them marked but I can’t tell you that the market for the land is improving.
We are down to the full improved assets.
All four of those assets are assets that are requiring some point of attention or capital before they get sold and we are confident again with where we have them marked and so I think that our feeling is that it’s just a matter for example somebody assets completing lease up and somebody assets making certain capital improvements and if you made in order to have them properly positioned before we sell them.
So again these aren’t the types of assets Craig when you think about for example looking at some of the other REIT out there selling literally shopping centers and kind of use those dispositions as a proxy for the market or what have you.
Even with improved assets we are selling are either in closed malls or we are selling an industrial building in Central Pennsylvania; the Cedar assets that are not strip centers and they aren’t indicative of the values of strip centers in general because they are just not comparable to the rest of the assets within our portfolio.
But in terms of the pricing we remain comfortable with where we have them marked and think we’ll be able to sell them to basically where we have them marked.
Given no Walt-Mart’s push to open more neighborhood centers are there any other opportunities where you can make a swap like the one just announced? I guess without getting into in too much detail I think there are demographics or the types of demographic that Wal-Mart finds very attractive and we hope that we can continue to do the business with Wal-Mart.
They are great credit and we will be happy to have more Wal-Mart’s in our portfolio.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question is from Rj Milligan with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
First can you can you give us an update as to when you think the properties that are under contract or that going back to the lender when they will actually close or go back to the lender? I think on the last call we talked about having things hopefully wrapped up in terms of everything that is under contract they are teed up to go back to a lender by the time we have our third quarter call so the first anniversary of having rolled out this plan.
You know we are still optimistic that that's going to get done and also there is any -- I think that the only real chance there might be on the giving back to out assets to lender that's a process that we really have very little control over the special servicers are overwhelmed right now and so to some extent we are subject to their whims but we are hopeful that we will be able to get things out the door by the time we have our third quarter call.
Phil I know you mentioned that snow removal costs contributed to the same-store expense decline what else was driving that 18% decline? 18% in expenses.
So expenses are down $1.6 million.
Almost all of that is snow there is a little bit improvement also in bad debt but generally for those two items that generated the full decrease in expenses on the same-store properties.
(Operator instructions).
Thank you and our final question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Go ahead.
Bruce previously you discussed around $70 million of lost NOI that would be associated with all 50 property sales.
I was just wondering if you had any idea how much of that amount is attributable to the property sold to date and how much the way through that you know you would expect to be once all of the 40 properties are sold or conveyed? So of the 40 I think let me answer both your questions so what we've sold so far and reduce a little bit.
I would say that we are probably we sold about 60% of the NOI that we discussed selling based on the $50 million and then we will have sold probably about 70% to 80% of the NOI that we talked about selling once we've completed all the divestitures and get back to that we are talking about now.
Okay and then so where would that the EBITDA be pro forma for the sale of the 40 properties the $110 million any idea where that would be? It would just be around the low 8s.
Okay.
And then I was just wondering if you could give us an update on the Homburg transaction specifically and I was just wondering whether the original terms that were discussed or announced several quarters ago if they are still consistent with today or if anything has changed with those with that announcement? So some of this we can't get into obviously I could say that we are still confident that it's going to close we remain confident that it will close and our economic terms remain the same.
So at this point again we said that by our third quarter call we hope to get everything sold I would certainly hope that Homburg happens to us sooner than the last day of that time period and again we remain optimistic that deal close and the economic terms remain as they were before.
And then just one last question for Phil you know I noticed that the fixed charge coverage ticked down to about 1.3 times and I think your amended credit facility you need to stay above 1.25 through the end of the year; I was just wondering if you feel comfortable how comfortable you are staying above that throughout the disposition process here? Yeah it’s a couple of things Todd one let me go through and negotiate a covenant there.
We negotiate on with the disposition program in mind because we knew what’s happening at that time and we pro-forma it on and we are comfortable that we sat in the cushion there.
Also the calculation and the debt agreement is slightly different.
Its actually like 14 amount 14 or something in the debt agreement the way it gets recorded.
So there is a little more cushion in the actual covenant calculation and they are just doing a straight pro-rata debt to EBITDA here.
And actually just one other quick last question; G&amp;A in the quarter is that a pretty good run rate to think about going forward? Yeah if you went back and look historically its hard to get a run rate because it has the mark-to-market and stock that went up and down and if you pull the mark-to-market out of headwind it will be running right around $3 million so several quarters and with the change in allocations it’s (inaudible) that’s be a good run rate.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a good evening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen of ICR.
Thank you.
Mr.
Cohen you may begin.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press release which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the end the company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce?  Thanks Brad and welcome to the second quarter 2012 earnings call of Cedar Realty Trust.
On this call we will review our second quarter 2012 results provide an update on the strategic plan we first described last November as well as some of the other measures we are taking to preserve and enhance shareholder value.
Before beginning my remarks I would like to acknowledge and thank all of my colleagues for their outstanding efforts on behalf of the company.
I am joined as always by our senior management team specifically Phillip Mays our CFO; Brenda Walker our COO; Nancy Mozzachio our Head of Leasing; Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions; Tom Richey our Head of Development; and Stuart Widowski our General Counsel.
The balance of team Cedar is dialed into the call.
In a moment Phil will discuss our financial results and update guidance in greater detail however I would just highlight the continued consistency of our portfolio driven in part by strong leasing and property operations.
One of the effects we expected when we undertook our strategic initiatives to streamline and focus the company is exactly what we are starting to see as evidenced this past quarter namely that our leasing and operating people are more effective because they are managing a portfolio of fewer assets that are more homogeneous by type and more geographically concentrated along the Washington D.C.
to Boston corridor.
I think the numbers are compelling and really convey much of this story.
Our operating portfolio is now 91.9% leased a healthy 170 basis points above our occupancy of 90.2% and a 10 basis points improvement over last quarter.
In addition we achieved the positive spread on our 31 lease renewals this quarter of 8.6% on a cash basis which is our highest renewal rate spread in 12 quarters and continues our remarkable streak of positive renewals at 26 quarters in a row.
Over the past six months of the 77 comparable new and renewal leases we achieved a positive spread of 5.9% excluding the one dark anchor replacement deal we have discussed.
Two things I would highlight as we look a little deeper into these numbers relate to our small shop occupancy focus and our dark anchor replacement initiative.
In terms of small shop we are now 83.8% leased a year-over-year improvement of 110 basis points with a growing proportion of national retailers among our new small shop lease signings.
We believe the steady progress we are making in small shop occupancy is a direct result of the intense focus we are placing on this component of our portfolio.
Similarly we continue to make progress on our dark anchor replacement initiative having executed our second lease termination agreement.
We will provide further details on this once we finalize the replacement tenant lease which is when the termination will become effective.
Notably and as we mentioned on our last call this initiative negatively impacts some of our metrics as we go through the rotation from a dark anchor to a replacement tenant.
We feel these are acceptable short-term costs for the long-term benefit of having an operating anchor with higher credit quality.
One last point.
Of what were originally six dark anchors five are SUPERVALU contents.
We have already executed two lease termination agreements with SUPERVALU and are negotiating others further reducing our risk profile.
As we make progress in replacing our dark anchors with operating anchors that are of a higher credit quality we are also reducing our exposure to the relatively riskier SUPERVALU credit.
In terms of SUPERVALU more generally we are carefully monitoring the situation though we are comfortable with our exposure considering the leases in question.
In addition to the terrific momentum we have had on the leasing front the disposition and de-levering strategy we first announced in November of 2011 to sell approximately 50 assets and realize approximately $150 million for debt reduction continues to move forward on schedule.
This past quarter and through today we have put under contract for sale two of our three enclosed malls as well as four of our land development parcels including our Heritage Crossing development which represents roughly half the aggregate value of all the land and development parcels we are divesting.
We also closed on one land parcel and one small improved asset during the quarter.
Accordingly we now have sold put under contract or teed up to return to a lender 43 of the 50 assets representing net proceeds of approximately $124 million.
We have one mall two unanchored centers and four land parcels remaining.
One last item to touch on relates to the possible unwind of our RioCan joint-venture which encompasses 22 assets containing 3.7 million square feet.
As we mentioned on our first quarter call we are very focused on this situation and on making sure that Cedar shareholder value is maximized.
That said we do not have any further details to provide at this point regarding the RioCan relationship.
With that I will hand the call over to Phil for a review of our second quarter results and certain other financial matters.
Thanks Bruce and good afternoon everyone.
I will briefly review our operating results and then provide an update on our balance sheet and guidance.
Starting with operating results.
Operating FFO was $0.16 per diluted share for the quarter.
This includes $3.4 million of income related to the anchor replacement at Oakland Commons consisting of a $3 million termination fee and $400 000 of accelerated intangible lease amortization.
Excluding the $3.4 million operating FFO was consistent with the previous quarter at $0.11 per diluted share.
Same-center cash NOI excluding redevelopments increased 1.1%.
This growth excludes the termination income and was negatively impacted by the downtime associated with replacing the dark anchor.
Same-center cash NOI would have been 1.9% if not for this temporary downtime.
Replacing the anchor at Oakland Commons also impacted our occupancy.
We ended the quarter with total occupancy of 90.2% and same-center occupancy of 92.4%.
Absent another dark anchor replacement before year-end we expect both total and same-center occupancy to increase as we narrow the 170 basis points by which our total lease percentage exceeds our occupied percentage.
More specifically Kohl’s moving into our redevelopment at Brickyard Walmart replacing SUPERVALU at Oakland Commons and a small shop progress made by our leasing team will all contribute to occupancy gain.
Now moving to the balance sheet.
We remain focused on lowering our cost of capital and during the quarter we began the process of reducing the cost of our preferred stock.
We issued 400 000 shares of a new 7.25% Series B for $9.2 million of gross proceeds.
These Series B shares were issued at a discount to yield approximately 7.9% and the proceeds were used to partially redeem our Series A Preferred that yields about 100 basis points higher.
Additionally we established an ATM program for our new Series B under which we have raised another $4.6 million also at a yield of 7.9% and we have used about two-thirds of the proceeds to repurchase additional Series A shares on the open market.
It’s important no note that with the execution of our Series B we were more focused on rate than on the amount of the proceeds.
Our Series A Preferred is callable in whole or in part at any time and we are willing to be patient in order to maximize the value of this call option.
As yield on Preferred Stock continues to decrease we will look to opportunistically issue Series B or additional Series B and redeem more Series A.
Turning to guidance.
We are increasing our guidance for operating FFO to a range of $0.46 to $0.50 per diluted share.
This reflects our solid results for the first half of the year and a $3.4 million of termination-related income recognized this quarter.
This range continues to be subject to the timing of our remaining dispositions and reflects relatively flat same-center cash NOI growth for the remainder of the year.
And finally just a quick note on the change we made to our reporting terminology.
Due to the progress we have made and expect to continue making related to our dark anchor initiative our near-term results may have more variability from lease termination income and temporary anchor vacancy.
Accordingly going forward we will use the term operating FFO as opposed to recurring FFO.
To be clear here we’re simply changing the label.
And with that I’ll turn the call back to Bruce.
Thanks Phil.
Before opening the call to questions I would just like to take a moment to frame everything you have heard.
When Phil and I started at Cedar a little over a year ago we along with our new colleagues undertook to reinvent and reengineer Cedar into a much better performing shopping center REIT that delivers consistent and compelling results for shareholders and over time regains the trust of the REIT investor community.
We feel that the measures we have taken to-date have positioned the company to achieve these objectives.
We recognize this process takes time and we look forward to continuing to achieve what we expect will be a remarkable turnaround executed by a highly motivated and energized management team that aspires for excellence every day and in everything we do.
With that we will open the call to any questions you might have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Nathan Isbee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Nate.
Can you just give us a little bit of sense of where you stand with the other dark but paying boxes in the portfolio? What are some of the...
Hi Nate.
Okay go ahead.
Hi it’s Nancy.
I can tell you that we’re having conversations with two of those dark anchor boxes.
And as Bruce mentioned in his remarks we do have a termination agreement that was struck with SUPERVALU that we can activate and expect to activate that and replace that with another grocery tenant.
Okay.
And as you look across those remaining boxes what type of rent roll-downs or perhaps ups would you expect to generate?  I think that appreciate that they’re in different regions so I can’t really make a blanket statement about that.
But I can tell you that we very carefully analyze how we’re structuring these termination agreements as compared to the rent that we believe that we can achieve here.
So our hope is that those combined components will give us in some cases a push and in some cases we might be even and in some we might be a little bit less.
But as Bruce mentioned this time I mean we are looking to replace these anchors to add some vitality into these centers so it’s an important component for us.
Okay.
And as you look at the SUPERVALUs that are still open and operating if there were to be some additional closures in the portfolio would you expect the time lapse to be as severe as you’ve experienced here or do you think those would move quicker off the market?  I guess Nate what I would say is the following.
We carefully monitor our SUPERVALU exposure.
As I mentioned most of our dark anchors are SUPERVALUs.
In terms of the balance of the portfolio that is rented to SUPERVALU we’re comfortable that these are leases that are generally at or below market.
And so it’s our view that again it really would depend on the location but if you were just to ask us to make a generic characterization I think we would say that on the whole we’d probably be better off having those spaces back with the ability to rent to them somebody new as opposed to continuing to receive rent here.
So look we’re not too worried about this.
We have keyed in on the centers where these leases are above market and those happen to be generally also the dark anchors and so those are the ones that we’re focused on re-tenanting.
But again I think we’re comfortable with the exposure.
And to the extent as a generic statement that we were to have another SUPERVALU go dark I think as it relates to the operating anchors I think that we’d be comfortable that we’d be able to release those pretty quickly.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just moving to Shore Mall can you update us in what your plans are for that asset? Are you planning on selling that? There’s been some press reports recently about some pretty strong tenant response to some of your plans there so I’m just trying to get a sense of what the short to middle-term plan is for the asset.
Okay I’m glad you brought that up Nate.
We have the Shore Mall as you know on our disposition list and we undertook to sell it.
And what we discovered is that the value-add opportunity at Shore Mall which specifically contemplates knocking down the enclosed portion of the mall and converting it into a strip center was something that we were not getting adequately rewarded for in the pricing that we were seeing and so we decided to do it ourselves.
And it’s a very manageable project for us; it’s something for which we already have plans.
And so we’re going to execute that de-malling which effectively contemplates knocking down a vacant anchor and knocking down a mall that has some relatively low-quality tenancies to it.
And at that point we’ll bring the Shore Mall back to the market as a hopefully 100% occupied strip center with a fair amount of developable land behind the center where the old enclosed mall sat.
So as you would imagine there’s some resistance to that from folks who now occupy the mall in the in-line space.
But again from an economic perspective it’s a very clear path for us and we expect to get a very handsome return on the incremental capital that we’re investing so it really makes a lot of sense from an economic perspective for Cedar to pursue this approach at the Shore Mall.
How much do you expect to spend there?  Probably about $3 million.
And that would include just demolition?  That includes basically demolishing the enclosed mall and the anchor space and then effectively fencing in the strip mall and just cleaning up what will then be just vacant land.
So you would not be pursuing any sort of ground-up development there yourself.
Nope that’s not the plan.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And the next question is from Todd Thomas of KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Just a quick follow-up on the Shore Mall.
What’s the timing expected for the de-malling and what kind of returns on the incremental spend do you anticipate?  The timing is as follows.
We have leases that run through the end of the year and so we’re going to leave the mall open generally speaking until the end of the year at which point all the leases expire.
And at that point we’ll proceed assuming that we get all the appropriate permits to demolish the enclosed mall and the vacant anchor space there.
In terms of the return again it’s a $3 million investment and I think that we’ll certainly exceed our low double-digit required unlevered return threshold probably fairly substantially.
Again we’re optimistic we’re – we wouldn’t be investing the incremental capital unless we were highly optimistic of getting the return.
And I think in this instance we think that we could do very very handsomely relative to the kind of returns that we require for putting out incremental capital.
Which to be plain with you Todd is exactly why we’re undertaking this is because again we just see a great opportunity to in a relatively short period of time put out some capital and get a really terrific return.
Okay.
And maybe a question for Nancy.
Just in terms of leasing can you give us a sense of where the demand is coming from in the small shops? It sounded like it was mostly nationals and regional so I was just wondering if you’re starting to see any more demand from some local retailers that are willing to sort of set up and take risk today.
We’re definitely seeing local retailers appreciate when we put this focus with our team on small shop lease-up.
We’re out campusing.
We’re talking to local tenants.
We are trying to take those local tenants from a competing center and bring them to our shopping center using the strength of our grocery tenant anchor as the lure.
And if you recall a couple of quarters ago we started an ATM program where we were offering some reduced rents; there was no capital in on our part.
That’s been quite successful.
As a matter of fact this past quarter we did have the ATM program produce one tenant.
So we are finding those small shops.
I will tell you though we probably have as Bruce mentioned a sizeable number of national tenants in our small shop numbers this particular quarter but we do have small tenant local tenants who are committing to space but we’re still finding capital.
I will tell you that even though they are local tenants they tend to be a tenant that has multiple locations so in some cases they have the ability to finance themselves; we are seeing that.
Okay.
And then in terms of I guess guidance where do you forecast the lease rate and physical occupancy for the overall portfolio to be at year-end?  Hey Todd it’s Phil.
So our total current occupancy’s 90.2%.
We talked about we have 170 basis point spread which would get you close to 92%.
We hope to narrow the majority of that gap and get close.
Same-center we’re at 92.4%.
There’s about 120 basis point spread on that one which would put it around 93.5%.
And we’d hope to narrow the majority of those spreads on both of those.
Okay.
And then I’m also just kind of thinking towards year-end can you give us an update – I know you’re still in the process of selling land and other properties but can you give us an update with where you expect debt-to-EBITDA to be at year-end and also how much you expect to have drawn on the line of credit?  Yeah.
I mean it’s a little rough with timing just because we have to get loan approval with the banks and the special servicers and all that so it’s little – I mean we’re at 8.7.
It will improve.
So if everything closes without a lot of hassle from getting assumption approval maybe low eight.
Okay.
And then just...
Todd II was just going to add that keep in mind that virtually everything that’s not selling by the end of the year is land and the Shore Mall which is a very low-yielding asset.
And those are really the assets that are going to push us over the top in terms of getting into the high sevens as we told you.
And so it’s really those last transactions that are really the transactions that get us to our target leverage level.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just a quick clarification in terms of your revised FFO guidance.
Only the $3 million lease term fee is included not the accelerated amortization not that portion; is that correct?  Yeah let me walk through it.
So the midpoint of our old guidance is $0.425.
If you took the term fee plus accelerated and less of the rent we’re losing for downtime it ends up being about $0.04 and we raised the mid-point about $0.055 if that’s helpful.
Okay yeah that’s helpful.
And the balance of the increase is that just due to better than expected performance within the core portfolio?  Yeah it’s a little better performance plus it’s the timing of the disposition; some of them that are dilutive in time that with some that are not.
Plus you just get to there’s less time left in the year so regardless of the kind of the timing of when those happen they won’t have as much of an impact to the remainder of the year.
Okay understood.
All right great.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And the next question is from Josh Patinkin of BMO.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
Looking at some of your debt rolling over next year the Upland Square maturity have you had any discussions there; could you talk to us a little bit about what you’re thinking?  Yeah there’s about $120 million that matures next year half of that is Upland.
We have a one-year option on that so we can extend that out one year.
We’ll probably exercise our option on that.
Okay.
And you think it’s fairly similar terms?  The terms remain the same.
It had an option built in when we closed the deal so we’ll just exercise the contractual option that’s already in the agreement.
Okay.
And then on the other I guess half that’s rolling what do you think is it going to roll down in interest or what’s your thoughts there?  We’re trying to – there’s about another $60 million.
The rates I would trade on that probably about 6.
If we were to put those on mortgages we could do a little better.
We may actually end up rolling those into the line just to keep our flexibility there to have outstanding there s we do go through the dispose to be able to immediately pay down debt.
But it will be at the same rate or better.
Got it.
And then generally speaking on SUPERVALU as you look at the quarter you have identified what’s your opinion on any real estate opportunities within that conglomerate there?  That’s a pretty broad question.
What we find is that the value is really in the leases and so to the extent that there is a below-market lease that’s clearly an opportunity for us to the extent we can recapture the space to lease it at-market.
To the extent that there’s an above-market rent and they were to go away that would clearly present a challenge in terms of matching the rent that we had been receiving.
And at the market leases are generally speaking as the word connotes at the market and therefore there’s no real opportunity to write them up.
So I guess as a generic comment I would say that the opportunities are that a lot of the SUPERVALU flags are flags that have been around for a fair amount of time with leases that have been around for a fair amount of time which are oftentimes are below market.
And so to the extent that we or another landlord can recapture them that’s where the value opportunity really lies.
Is there a lot of real estate owned by SUPERVALU in your corridor there?  We have – there are two or three centers that have SUPERVALU as shadow anchors but it’s not meaningful and they’re not really in centers where we would aggressively pursue opportunities to capture those assets.
Got it.
And then as standalone entities of Farm Fresh and Shaw’s brand what’s your thoughts on how they might be valued in this scenario?  Well again we don’t have a distinct view on each of the flags and what the EBITDA produced from each of the flags is.
I would tell you that in addition to Shaw’s and Farm Fresh there’s of course ACME and so we have exposure to ACME as well.
These are all relatively well regarded flags.
Farm Fresh in Virginia’s a very very strong performer.
Similarly with ACME; in the mid-Atlantic states where we have ACMEs again a very strong performer.
Shaw’s has struggled a little bit but again it’s been around a fair amount of time.
But the SUPERVALU flags are generally speaking well regarded and in their markets typically perform reasonably well.
Okay.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Schanzer for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us this evening and have a good evening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen Investor Relations at ICR.
Thank you.
Mr.
Cohen you may begin.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press release which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the end the company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my privilege to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thanks Brad and welcome to the third quarter 2012 earnings call of Cedar Realty Trust.
This call marks an important anniversary since it was on our third quarter call last year that we introduced the new Cedar which beyond the new name logo and website included a near-term strategic plan to reposition the company as a primarily grocery anchored shopping centers focused on the Washington DC to Boston corridor with an improved capital structure.
This was to be effected through the divestiture of 50 non-core assets with the proceeds used to reduce leverage below 8 times on a debt to EBITDA basis.
Although we didn’t mention it on last year’s call it was also our strategic intention to resolve the uncertainties surrounding our relationship with RioCan in a manner that maximize value to our shareholders.
On this call I will review the execution of our near-term strategic plan over the past year including the resolution our relationship with RioCan and walk you through our longer-term strategic plan as we contemplate the next chapter in the reinvention of Cedar.
Before discussing our results I would like to acknowledge and thank all of my colleagues for their efforts on behalf of the company especially over the past weeks.
I am joined as always by our senior management team specifically Philip Mays our CFO Brenda Walker our COO; Nancy Mozzachio our Head of Leasing; Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions; Tom Richey our Head of Development; and Stuart Widowski our General Counsel.
The balance of team Cedar is dialed into the call.
As we continue to recover from super storm Sandy I would like to especially acknowledge and thank the folks in our Long Island office.
Although our centers were unaffected by the storm the Long Island area was very hard hit and many of our employees remained without power with some not yet back in their homes.
Despite these hardships our team has worked tirelessly to put the finishing touches on our third-quarter reporting and to continue to drive forward on our various initiatives.
I sincerely want to thank team Cedar for their commitment and professionalism in the face of these personal challenges.
Over the past year we’ve just about completed a project that we expected to take two years to complete.
This achievement is a credit first and foremost to Mike and Brenda who really spearheaded most of the divestitures as well as to Tom who has focused on extricating Cedar from certain development and selling some of our land.
As of this call we’ve only two improved assets and three small land parcels remaining to be put under contract out of the 50 assets we identified for divestiture last year.
We have closed on many of the deals that were put under contract.
Most notably we closed on the sale of our joint-venture interest in seven of our centers to Homburg last month though after the end of the quarter which as has been disclosed before was priced at a 6.85% cap rate.
The two remaining assets to be divested are our unanchored Oakhurst Plaza center in Harrisburg Pennsylvania and the Shore Mall in Egg Harbor New Jersey.
Oakhurst need a little more lease-up before it comes to market and as we discussed on our second-quarter call Shore Mall will be renovated before we bring it to market.
The three remaining land parcels do not represent a significant amount of value and will be divested as opportunities present themselves.
As we have also disclosed during the third quarter we announced the unwind of our 22 asset joint-venture with RioCan.
The transaction closed shortly after the quarter ended.
This represented an important milestone for Cedar.
The unwind successfully concluded over a year of strategic planning by us and we are now positioned to focus going forward on what we feel are higher value creation opportunities within our high quality wholly-owned portfolio.
The unwind involved our selling to RioCan our 20% stake in 21 of the 22 joint-venture assets without receiving one asset Franklin Village Plaza and approximately $40 million in cash.
RioCan valued our centers at a 6.5% cap rate.
Franklin Village was valued using the same cap rate.
The cash proceeds we received will be used to prepay mortgages with a weighted average rate of 6.5% as well thus muting any earnings impact while allowing us to further delever.
On the day of the unwind announcement we also announced the implementation of overhead reduction measures to offset the approximately $2.5 million in annual fee income we will no longer receive after the termination of our property management agreement at the end of January 2013.
The first step in our overhead reduction was to reduce our headcount by 20% which we effected on the day of the joint-venture unwind announcement saving us approximately $1.5 million on an annualized basis.
On top of the headcount reduction we have also negotiated or identified approximately $1 million in overhead expense reductions that have largely been secured and to the extent they haven’t already occurred will be realized during the first two to three quarters of 2013.
In a moment Phil will discuss our financial and leasing results as well as our updated guidance in greater detail.
However I would just like to take a step back and discuss what to expect from Cedar more generally as we contemplate the successful conclusion of our near-term strategic initiatives during 2013 and begin to implement the long-term strategic plan for our company.
Our long-term plan has five principal elements whose unifying theme is a focus on smart capital allocation that drives consistent and enduring NAV growth.
First we will be focused primarily on grocery anchored shopping centers in the Washington DC to Boston corridor.
To paraphrase Jack Welch we want to be the best in whatever vertical we focus on.
We believe that we can be such a premier owner and operator of our particular asset site grocery anchored shopping centers in our particular geographic footprint the DC to Boston corridor by leveraging and growing our asset type and local market expertise.
I would note that we take an extensive view of what constitutes a grocer especially as the competitive grocer landscape evolves.
But we like the defensive nondiscretionary nature of grocers and the fact that they generate greater traffic than other types of retailers.
Second we will focus on what we believe are our core competencies to it operating and leasing.
Whether it is our small shop leasing or our dark anchor replacement initiatives we feel that through an emphasis on the blocking and tackling of real estate operations we can dramatically enhance the long-term performance of our assets with a minimal capital investment.
We’ve already started to see the fruits during the course of the past year as we’d begun pursuing these initiatives.
Third we expect to identify value creation opportunities within our portfolio in order to maximize the NOI from our existing assets.
Our focused asset redevelopment initiative is intended to identify assets we own in which we can invest meaningful capital with target returns well in excess of what we can achieve investing in new asset acquisition and at a dramatically lower risk than what we can achieve through ground-up development.
We currently have approximately 10 assets of which we are actively pursuing some sort of redevelopment effort.
We continue to mine our portfolio for additional investment opportunities.
Fourth we intend to intensify our Washington DC to Boston geographic footprint and improve our average asset quality through capital recycling and selective capital investment.
As we contemplate concluding our near-term strategic initiative we intend to gradually shift from defense to offense which will involve a very selective addition to our portfolio of new assets that bolster Cedar’s overall portfolio and a very judicious pruning of existing assets that detract from our portfolio.
Fifth and last we will continue to reduce our cost of capital on our leverage so as to improve our financial flexibility through conservative balance sheet management.
The first step in this was the divestiture of 50 assets that we have pursued over the past year which will ultimately reduce debt by in excess of $150 million when concluded.
The process was enhanced with the approximately $40 million in cash proceeds we generated from the RioCan joint-venture unwind that are being used to prepay mortgages.
Another noteworthy step was the refinancing of $125 million of our series A preferred that had been yielding 8 7/8% with series B preferred that has a coupon of 7 ¼% and was issued at a weighted average yield of slightly more than 7 5/8%.
These measures among others have helped chip away at a relatively high cost of capital and leverage and we continue on track to get below 8 times on a debt to EBITDA basis and hopefully further delever from there.
What underlies all five of these strategic principles is an emphasis on analytics teamwork and excellence.
In a relatively short time we’ve seen a group of people joined together in a common cause and achieved a measure of success.
There is a lot of the mountain left to climb and we are very confident that this company and its platform are uniquely situated to generate attractive and consistent results for shareholders for a long time to come.
With that I will hand the call over to Phil for a review of our third-quarter results and certain other financial matters.
Phil? Thanks Bruce and good afternoon everyone.
On this call I will review our operating results highlight recent balance sheet activity and provide an update on guidance.
Starting first with operating results operating FFO was $0.11 per diluted share for the quarter.
Excluding lease termination income we have reported operating FFO of $0.11 per diluted share for each quarter this year.
These are positive results considering they occurred in the middle of a sizable disposition and delivering program.
Same property cash NOI for the quarter increased 1.2% excluding the timing impact associated with replacing the dark anchor at Oakland Commons.
When we proactively replaced the dark super value at Oakland Commons with the Wal-Mart neighborhood market we recognized it will create some noise in our reported results.
However we also knew this is the right long-term real estate decision.
We converted a stream of future payment from a weakening noninvestment grade credit to lumpsum lease termination payment and a stream of future payments from a high investment grade credit which will ultimately create greater value for this property.
Now keep in line we report the same property results on a cash basis and our same property results will continue to be impacted by this downtime until Wal-Mart begins paying cash rent in mid 2013.
Regarding leasing our lease percentages ticked up slightly and we ended the quarter at 92.1% leased for our total portfolio and 92.5% leased for our same property portfolio.
Additionally our occupancy increased 70 basis points to 90.9%.
This increase in occupancy is a reflection of the hard work by our leasing team over the year and Kohl's taking possession at Brickyard.
Even more significant with the current lease occupied spread of 120 points occupancy should continue to increase as lease tenants take possession and we narrow the spread.
Also on the leasing front we signed 27 renewals for 153 000 square feet at an 8.5% increase on a cash basis and new leases for 31 000 square feet at a weighted average rent of $16.45.
Moving on to the balance sheet Bruce has already discussed the RioCan JV transaction.
I just want to highlight that we have included a page in our financial supplement that presents the components of this transaction.
This page should be a good tool for updating financial models.
As presented on this page and as previously noted we were able to complete this transaction along with right-sizing our overhead in a manner that will ultimately have little or no impact on our FFO.
Further upon completion we have simplified our capital structure operations and financial results which will make it even easier to understand the strength and consistency of our grocery anchored portfolio.
During the quarter we also made more progress toward reducing our cost of capital.
Let me just take a minute to walk through our preferred stock activity that I think it highlights how management identifies issues analyzes them and is willing to be patient opportunistic and creativity to resolve them.
When Bruce and I started at Cedar just over one year ago the company had approximately 116 million of series A preferred stock with a coupon of 8 7/8%.
As the series A preferred was really recallable it always traded at or near par resulting in a consistent yield in the 9% and because of our size in credit metrics we were finding that we could not issue a new series preferred at a yield much lower than this.
Recognizing the call option of the series A preferred have value and confident that our credit metrics would continue to improve we patiently evaluated different options.
Ultimately we did the following: In May we issued slightly less than 10 million of a new series B preferred stock with a coupon of the 7 1/4%.
These new preferred shares were issued at a discount to yield approximately 7.9% a considerably lower yield than where we could have issued a new full sized preferred in order to begin to reset our preferred reference rate.
We then established an ATM program for our new series B preferred to enhance its liquidity and issued another 5 million at a similar or slightly better yield.
With the passage of a few months the new series B preferred started trading at a more attractive yield.
We eventually opportunistically re-opened our series B preferred in September and raised approximately 115 million at a yield of 7 5/8%.
Not including the recent October redemption of preferred A shares we have utilized the proceeds from our preferred B offerings to redeem about 125 million of our series A preferred.
Notably our new series B preferred provides us with almost 125 basis point decrease in the yield of our preferred cost and it’s dramatically better than what would have otherwise been available to us considering our size and credit metrics.
I hope this explanation of our preferred activity does provide some insight into our thought process and how we creatively approach issues.
Turning to guidance we are increasing the low end of our 2012 operating FFO guidance to an updated range of $0.48 to $0.50 per diluted share.
As noted on our last call this rate includes $3.4 million of termination income recognized in the second quarter and reflects relatively flat same property cash NOI for the remainder of the year driven by the dark anchor downtime we just discussed.
Finally I would be remiss if I didn’t also thank team Cedar for their hard work after hurricane Sandy hit the Northeast.
We were fortunate not to have a major damage at our properties but many of our employees were not as fortunate.
Over the last couple of weeks we have seen employees come to work while at home they had no power trees lying on the roof and flood damage.
We’re grateful for their hard work during this time and our prayers and thoughts continue to go out for them and the many others impacted by this terrible event.
With that I will open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
I wanted to focus on the value creation opportunities.
Would that be something like a Franklin village where you take a strong center and make it better or is it as a center that might be weakened and you can return it to health? That’s a great question and the answer is really both.
We see opportunities frankly at Franklin Village and there is an opportunity that we’re pursuing there.
But more broadly it’s really in centers like what we’re doing at Brickyard what we’re doing at Trexlertown where we see opportunities to inject back into our centers in ways that satisfy tenant demand.
So for example in Trexler -- Trexlertown what drove that investment was a desire by giant to enter into a larger format and in Brickyard it was at a Sam's Club had left and that we had a desire by Kohl’s to move in.
So generally speaking these are going to be tenant driven and whatever center and we’re looking across our entire portfolio the only thing I would add is that I’d mentioned that there is a potential for capital recycling.
There are some centers down the road.
We could very well no longer have in our portfolio and I would tell you that those aren’t centers where we would be likely to be putting reinvestment and that value improvement dollars.
And could the capital recycling be the way that you fund these redevelopments? Potentially Craig as you know we spent time talking about this with you personally and this is something that we talked about more generally in our public comments we’re very focused on analysis and on our cost of capital.
And when we think of that investment opportunities we think about how to fund them with respect to various capital sources that we have available to us.
So certainly capital recycling could be one way we use to fund that.
We could potentially fund that with other capital sources again it would completely be a function of what was available to us and what the different cost of capital were and what the different return opportunities were.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Thinking about investments now that you’ve completed a lot of the heavy lifting with regard to the disposition it sounded like you might be shifting to offense and selectively looking for deals.
Are you seeking new opportunities today and should we expect to begin seeing some acquisitions in 2013? I would say that we are selectively looking to make acquisitions although there's nothing that’s imminent.
One of the reasons why I highlighted the fact that in addition to the value creation that we see within our centers that there is the potential and the likelihood that we will intensify our footprint really just to make you aware that’s part of our long-term strategy.
But there is nothing that’s really at hand.
Although I would expect that during 2013 if things break our way in a couple of the opportunities that we've been chasing that we could hopefully announce one or two deals during 2013.
Again the one qualification all of that is that things are going to have to wind up in terms of where cost of capital is at the time and what the return opportunities are in these asses before we would do that.
These are just elements in any underwriting that we’d be very mindful of as we would look to add our portfolio.
And then when you think about the RioCan properties that were divested in the quarter you mentioned the pricing.
and I am sort of wondering how do you think that those properties overall compare to the balance of the existing portfolio today? Well I would add that in addition to the 6.5% cap rate for the RioCan assets the Hamburg assets were sold at 6.85% cap rate.
So in general this is the kind of pricing that we’re seeing for our assets.
In terms of the quality of the assets within the RioCan joint-venture we were very focused on making sure that we attained the Franklin asset which we think is an asset that has a lot of upside.
And that’s a real high quality institutional asset.
The rest of the assets line up well for RioCan.
RioCan is much more focused on the stable income and isn’t as focused on upside just more of a Canadian capital market type of imperative.
And so from our perspective we were very happy with Franklin we think that lines up and compares very favorably with the other assets within the Cedar portfolio and about the assets in the RioCan joint-venture made a lot more sense for RioCan considering their investment objectives.
And then we heard on another call this afternoon that management had a conference call with the real estate folks over Supervalu it sounds like they are starting to approach landlords requesting land releasing concessions.
I was just wondering if you’ve had any conversations with them and any updated thoughts regarding your exposure? Sure.
So Nancy Mozzachio was on that call and is probably positioned to comment on the latest as it relates to the call.
The one thing I would comment on more broadly as it relates to Supervalu is and this is something we touched on on other calls is we’ve been aware of the credit risk concentration and more broadly the credit risk embedded in Supervalu and our dark anchor strategy which we rolled out coming on about a year ago was really pretty single-mindedly focused on Supervalu five of our six dark anchors were Supervalu concepts.
And so far we’ve resolved three of those dark anchors were pretty close on another one.
And so again the Supervalu credit risk is something that we’ve been very mindful of and in addressing the dark anchor issue we’ve also addressed some of the credit concentration issues relating to Supervalu and also those (inaudible) have been centers where the Supervalu leases were generally above market.
And so it’s certainly improved the riskiness to us out of something negative happening with respect to those leases.
With that preamble I'll hand it over to Nancy to expand on the topic.
Todd I can just say that I guess about a month or so ago and our conversations with Supervalu and also with the group who was now handling the asset exploration for them on the East Coast.
We had conversations with both groups.
And at that time he made us aware that they were going to give call to landlords to talk a little bit about what they were doing inside the company and what they would potentially look for outside the company from their landlord by way of rent release.
We feel very confident based on both of those calls that the assets that we have aside from the dark anchor portfolio are well within the healthy range of rent to sales.
So we do not believe that we have exposure there.
Bruce just mentioned I think our exposure our risk exposure was really in the above market leases and as you know we’ve been working for quite some time on replacements of those and we feel very comfortable with what we've done thus far.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Paquin with BMO Capital Markets.
Looking at the cash leasing spread you guys have been pretty strong over the last few quarters.
Can you – would you mind us taking a minute to explain what’s driving that? Josh this is Nancy.
I think I can explain it in the fact that there is almost no new product that is on the books today no new construction taking place.
The combination of very little product new product coming on board and the fact that grocery anchor center does bring in a consistent level of traffic in a center caused us to procure I think very solid renewal numbers.
I think the tenants were there we’ve been able to retain them on the fact that they can look the parking lot and see the traffic and understand it’s important to their businesses today.
I think that most of the small shop retailers are looking to minimize rack and relocating out of a center where they're proven into the unknown is probably not a good path to take.
And so I think that’s the basis for a strong releasing numbers.
Okay.
How much of the activity this quarter was small shops versus larger tenants? In terms of renewals? Yeah both renewals and new releases.
I would say as it relates to new leases it’s been all small shop.
And with renewals it’s primary small shop.
We had a few large store renewals but for the most part they have been small shop.
What’s the small shop occupancy today? Our lease rate ticked up about 10 basis points they were just shy of 84% -- just shy of about 83.9%.
And then going into 2013 and ’14 can you expect similar roll-ups in the renewals? Again looking outward to what’s happening on the development side or the lack of development I should say I think we feel as confident as we could be that things are going to progress in the same manner that they have for the last couple of quarters.
We actually do have a new additional question coming from RJ Milligan with Raymond James.
A couple of just quick questions for the RioCan JV the properties said in the press release are going to be managed until January of 2013.
Is that extendable or is that -- when the contracts are going to end? The contract was up to one year and RioCan had a 90 day termination rights so the plan was for them to start -- open an office in the United States to manage these assets and to give us 9 days notice when they were comfortable they would up and running.
And so they gave us a notice at the end of October that it would be open at the end of January and so the expectation is that that would be when the management contract is official terminated.
So they did give you the notice? Yes.
And then I was wondering if you guys had any color or update on RioCan and they are selling – their announcement that they were going to sell out of their position in the stock any update on that? Nothing really this is RioCan stock sale.
And so their plans are really up to them and the timing is really within their control.
Obviously it’s out there that they are going to be selling it.
We’d love for them to sell it as soon as possible but again it’s not within our control at all to trigger that sale.
Our strategy right from the beginning has been to identify risks and uncertainties within the Cedar story and to mitigate those risks and to resolve them.
And that’s something that we have done and the problem with Cedar’s stock interest – RioCan stock interest in Cedar is that we can’t control when it gets sold.
And hopefully it will get sold soon and it will resolve the uncertainty in that part of our story.
And we will be able to eliminate the overhang and hopefully allow the stock to trade back towards its intrinsic value.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Schanzer closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the NAREIT conference next week.
Have a good evening.
This does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen Investor Relations for ICR.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risk and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other facts and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press release which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my privilege to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thanks Brad and welcome to the fourth quarter 2012 earnings call of Cedar Realty Trust.
2012 was noteworthy as the first full year during which I served as CEO and Phil Mays served as CFO.
It was a very eventful year and I would like think a very successful one.
The measures we have taken since the management change are in furtherance of our objective to cause Cedar to be recognized as a company with safe and defensive assets that produces solid per share results with predictable and sustainable growth.
A hallmark of our strategy is our disciplined and analytical approach to capital allocation with a keen focus on driving growth on a per share basis and not merely the growth of our enterprise.
During 2012 we effectively executed our near-term divestiture strategy with just a few assets still remaining to be placed under contract and with the company on track to achieve our leverage target of being below eight times levered on a debt-to-EBITDA basis when we close on the sale of our last asset.
Despite all our divestitures and de-levering we generated $0.50 per share of operating FFO for 2012 inclusive of a $0.04 lease termination fee.
Even after adjusting for this non-recurring income our result represents a $0.01 beat to our initial 2012 FFO guidance of $0.40 to $0.45.
Moreover we anticipate that our 2013 results will represent a solid year-over-year improvement especially considering that we intend to continue our divestiture and de-levering process during the course of this year.
We’re very pleased that we have been able to improve our FFO per share while simultaneously improving our balance sheet and portfolio.
As was previously disclosed during the fourth quarter of 2012 we closed on the unwind of our joint venture with RioCan.
We executed this unwind in a manner that was neutral to earnings and that improved our average asset quality through the acquisition of what we feel was the best asset in the joint venture.
Furthermore the series of steps taken in conjunction with the JV unwind including reducing our overhead expenses by $2.5 million within 12 months of the unwind announcement and reducing head count by roughly 20% have left Cedar in a stronger position both financially and organizationally.
The great news is that we have already secured the $2.5 million in overhead savings well in advance of the 12-month timeframe we contemplated at the time of the JV unwind last September.
These savings are factored into our 2013 guidance.
2012 was a very solid leasing year.
We concluded the year at 92.7% leased portfolio wide 94.3% leased on a same center basis and 85.3% leased on a small shop basis a remarkable 246 basis point increase in small shop occupancy year-over-year.
Notably our fourth quarter cash renewal spread of 7.6% marked our 28th straight quarter of positive renewal spreads.
In addition during 2012 we locked down many of our expiring leases for 2013 with nearly 40% of leases scheduled to expire in 2013 renewed during 2012.
These achievements are a credit to Nancy Mozzachio and her leasing team.
They employ a boots on the ground approach to leasing that leverages our small size and local market expertise to optimize the performance of our assets.
As we enter 2013 and confidently look to the future we see the elements of our long-term strategy for value creation taking root.
Strategically we remain committed to our focus on grocery-anchored shopping centers in the Washington DC to Boston corridor.
One of the benefits of our attractive geography coupled with our relatively small portfolio size is that we can be very nimble in leveraging our local market expertise to address the ever changing grocery industry landscape.
As I often remind my team the grocery business is both Darwinian and dynamic.
Accordingly we need to not only partner with strong operators who are likely to survive through numerous business cycles as we’ve generally done but we also need to identify grocery formats that are likely to endure through the inevitable secular changes that occur in the grocery business.
We continue to aggressively and successfully address these issues.
For example last year we replaced one of our SUPERVALU grocers with a Wal-Mart neighborhood market in the first instance of our dark anchor replacement strategy.
We anticipate more such dark anchor replacement transactions during 2013 and beyond based on our pipeline at this time.
In addition we have been targeting smaller format and discount grocers with some success and I would similarly expect to see one or more such lease deals during 2013.
In terms of SUPERVALU I would like to take a moment to give you some color around their recently announced transaction.
SUPERVALU was broken up in a transaction that involved the public company being recapitalized by a group led by Cerberus and certain of its banner sold to that same group as part of the recapitalization.
From Cedar’s perspective this is a net positive event for the following reasons first the uncertainty surrounding the SUPERVALU enterprise is now resolved and the worst case scenarios such as bankruptcy appear to be off the table.
Second the way SUPERVALU was split up works well for us in the context of our particular assets.
The banners that were taken private in our geography are Shaw’s and Acme.
We have two Shaw’s both of which are already darked and three Acmes all of which have below market leases.
Accordingly much of the risk to Cedar has been mitigated since our Shaw’s stores are already closed with plans underway to address their dark status and the Acmes we’d be happy to have back.
The banners that remain in the public company are now in a better credit quality entity and again we have specific plans for each of those banners including the two already dark anchors.
As we shift from defense to offense we are starting to act on opportunity to invest back into our centers and also seeing opportunities to intensify our footprint through acquisitions that improve our average asset quality.
We currently have eight value add projects of various sizes underway in which we anticipate investing approximately $20 million in the aggregate during 2013.
In addition we are underwriting a number of potential acquisitions but we are not ready to discuss size timing or cost.
Before handing the call over to Phil to walk you through our results and guidance in greater detail I would like to acknowledge the contributions of our senior management team specifically Phil our CFO Brenda Walker our COO Nancy our Head of Leasing Tom Richey our Head of Development; Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions and Stuart Widowski our General Counsel as well as all at Team Cedar who have worked tirelessly as we have streamlined the company and continued its transformation.
In reflecting on 2012 I am struck by the energy and enthusiasm with which the entire Team Cedar has embraced our new direction.
First the team worked with zeal to advance the near-term strategic objectives we articulated shortly before the beginning of the year.
Second the resolution of the RioCan relationship in a manner that meaningfully improved our portfolio capital structure and operating platform is an accomplishment of which we are proud.
Last we move forward with a very clear and actionable plan to build on our strong portfolio and platform in a manner that generates consistent per share value creation attractive returns on capital and continued operating leverage.
With that I give you Phil Mays.
Thanks Bruce and good evening everyone.
On this call I will highlight our operating results continued balance sheet progress and provide comments about our initial 2013 guidance.
Operating FFO for the fourth quarter was $0.12 per diluted share and for the full year was $0.50 per diluted share.
As noted on prior calls the full year results include $3 million or $0.04 per share of lease termination fee income associated with replacing the dark anchor at Oakland Commons.
Excluding this one-time termination fee income operating FFO would have been $0.46 per share for 2012 compared to $0.49 per diluted share for 2011.
This reduction in FFO per share is consistent with what we communicated at the start of our disposition and de-levering program and is modest when you consider that we can currently reduce debt-to-EBITDA by almost a full turn.
Accordingly we are very pleased with these results and believe our accomplishments in 2012 are building a solid foundation for the future of Cedar.
Same-property NOI excluding the timing impact associated with the replacing of dark anchor at Oakland Commons increased 1.6% for the quarter and 1.8% for the full year of 2012.
Layering in redevelopments our same-property NOI increased 2.1% for the full year reflecting the lease-up at our redevelopment properties more specifically Trexlertown Plaza.
Turning to the balance sheet.
In the fourth quarter we redeemed another $113 million of our 8.78% Series A preferred stock.
This redemption was completed utilizing the proceeds from our Series B preferred stock issued late in the third quarter at a yield of 7.58%.
Further subsequent to the end of the fourth quarter we received a reverse inquiry on our Series B Preferred Stock and opportunistically used this enquiry as an anchor order to reopen our Series B and raise another $57 million at a yield of 7.38%.
With these proceeds we will retire our remaining 8.78% Series A Preferred Stock.
Overall we’re pleased that during 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 we were able to reduce our cost of capital by retiring the full $150 million of our 8.78% Series A preferred stock with a new Series B preferred stock issued at an average yield of approximately 7.5%.
Now let me address our 2013 debt maturity.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first two months of 2013 we used the proceeds from our dispositions along with the cash received from our exit of the RioCan JV to prepay almost $50 million of mortgages maturing in 2013 all without incurring any prepayment notice.
This leaves us $75 million of debt maturing in the latter half of 2013 of which $60 million has a one-year extension option leaving only $50 million of maturities in 2013.
The one-year extension option that we can exercise for $60 million relates to our Upland Square property financing.
Upland Square has entitlements for another 65 000 square feet that we could construct or that we would construct only upon obtaining a signed anchor lease.
We do have a couple of solid leasing leads at Upland Square and accordingly we like the flexibility our one-year extension option provides as we pursue these leads.
How and when we ultimately refinance Upland either in 2013 or in 2014 after exercising our extension will depend on how negotiations progress with these potential anchors.
Moving to our initial 2013 guidance.
We are establishing 2013 operating FFO guidance of $0.46 to $0.49 per diluted share.
The key assumptions underlying our 2013 guidance and noted in our press release today are as follows: Same property NOI growth of 1% to 2% an increase in occupancy of approximately a 100 basis points.
No termination fee income and no acquisitions.
This is not to say that we will not have any termination fee income or complete any acquisitions in 2013.
It is to simply be clear that such amounts are not included in our initial guidance.
I should also note that revenue from amortizing our below-market lease intangibles will decrease about $1 million in 2013 just from the burn off of scheduled amortization.
Additionally as Bruce discussed in order to replace the lost management fee income from RioCan we have identified $2.5 million of overhead savings.
Approximately $1.5 million of these savings will reduce our property operating costs and $1 million will reduce G&amp;A.
These savings are weighted towards our property operating costs and this is where the cost was recorded for the majority of the terminated employees that managed and operated the RioCan properties.
With regard to G&amp;A our annual run rate was approximately $14.7 million for the first nine months of 2012 before we began implementing these cost savings measures and we anticipate it being approximately $13.7 million in 2013.
Finally although we only provide annual guidance I would like to make a couple of quick comments about the timing of our quarterly results for 2013.
In the first quarter of 2013 we will incur negative drag related to timing and seasonality.
First there is a 30-day notice requirement to redeem the last portion of our Series A preferred stock.
Second we could not fully utilize all of the RioCan cash proceeds to reduce debt until February.
Third we incur seasonal snow removal costs.
Last the new Wal-Mart Neighborhood Market at Oakland Commons will not commence paying cash rent until about mid 2013.
Each of these individually is not significant but in the aggregate will negatively impact our first quarter operating FFO and property NOI growth.
Further our anticipated 2013 leasing is weighted towards the latter half of the year.
And with that I will open the call to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good evening.
Just getting back to the SUPERVALU’s remaining in your portfolio.
Can you talk a little bit about broken down by the different flags and brands what the grocery sales are in each of those? Hi Nate it’s Nancy.
Hi.
The bulk of our SUPERVALU concentration is really within the Farm Fresh banner.
And I think from a sales perspective it’s by far the strongest sales per square foot of everything that we have within SUPERVALU.
So I would probably say that that’s our strongest and then I would go to the Acmes located in the Philadelphia region and then our Shaw’s locations of course you know we have two dark anchors there.
When you talk about the strongest what are we talking about are we talking about 400 to 500 500 plus? Yeah I’d say probably the 400 to 500 is the area we’re talking about.
Okay.
And then with the RioCan ownership out of the way have you had any other further discussions with other of the large owners that have made some signs over the last year that they might be interested in selling? We track this the same way you do Nate.
So the answer is no.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Thinking about the same property NOI of 1% to 2% how much of that is coming from a lift in occupancy and how much is coming from leasing spreads? Hey Craig it’s Phil.
In the low end we’re expecting occupancy to go up approaching 1%.
So probably a little less than 1% would be due to occupancy gains and the rest would be just leasing spreads and new leases.
Okay.
And then I guess in terms of the leasing traction would you say that leasing for the small shops is on par with 2012 stronger or weaker? I would say that it’s stronger.
We are definitely seeing an uptick in activity and what we are seeing is and this is partly due to taking a little bit of proactive approach is we are paying attention to our restaurant uses.
Last year and in particular last quarter I think our small shops were about 30% represented by restaurant uses we’re trending about 40%.
There was a study that came out that talked about 41 000 small shop tenants expected to commit in 2013 41% is supposed to be restaurant.
And it’s an important fact because restaurant uses do in fact add a lot of traffic to a shopping center.
And secondly I think those users are insulated from e-commerce.
So it’s a smart move to put our focus when we talk to our leasing folks out in seeking restaurant tenants in our portfolio so that’s where we say we’re going.
Great.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our final question today comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
With regard to the two dark Shaw’s can you just talk about the re-tenanting plans that you’re contemplating for those sites? Todd we can’t completely discuss them actually just because they’re somewhat active and we’re reluctant to get into it until things are finalized but we are actively pursuing the re-tenanting of all of our dark anchors.
There is obviously a timeline so some of them will happen sooner than others but again I’d be very reluctant to talk about it before it’s a little bit more firm.
I think one of the things that as a relatively new management team and as a group here that we really endeavor to do is try to only commit to things that are pretty much in hand and I’d be reluctant to get too far over my skis on something that’s not yet completely resolved.
So I would just tell you that you’d have to wait and see and hopefully we’ll have some good news on these and the other dark anchors over the next few months.
Okay.
Understood.
And then with regard to the Acmes you mentioned that you would be happy to get those back.
I was wondering if you had a sense for where in-place rents on those leases are relative to market rents.
Well so there are – we have three of them and they vary pretty dramatically in terms of the rent per square foot and therefore how they relate to their market rents.
But I would say just broadly speaking – again there’s really a wide variance.
The average rent might be about $5 but there is probably $2.5 variance around that average.
And I would say that if you look at that average it’s probably half of the market today.
Okay.
And then on the balance sheet thinking about the preferreds is there any more capacity under the preferred – the ATM that you have set up? I guess I am just wondering if we should expect to see any additional issuance under that agreement.
Well so those are two different questions.
I can tell you this is a technical matter.
There is capacity and we do have as a practical matter a number of constraints one of which is that we want to make sure that we leave a wide berth from a fixed charge coverage perspective in terms of utilizing our preferred to finance our business.
So I would say that in terms of what you should expect if we do use preferred it will be for something that enhances our fixed charge coverage.
So in other words it’d have to be an investment that has a fair amount of yield in it so perhaps we might consider using that just – again I’m throwing this out there – as an equity alternative to the extent our share price isn’t at the right place and we need to finance either an acquisition that’s particularly attractive or some type of high yielding capital expenditure.
Okay.
And then just last question for Phil.
In terms of the amortization of intangible lease liabilities the non-cash rent I think you said you’re expecting that to be lower for the full year by about $1 million.
Was that correct? Yeah so it was about $5.5 million in 2012.
It will be about $4.5 million in 2013.
And actually we filed our K today also Todd if you go look there is a footnote that shows out of all that that’s in place it schedules the amortization out for the next five years and you can see what the schedule of amortization is for the next five years in there.
Right.
Okay great.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Schanzer for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a good evening.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen Investor Relations for ICR.
Thank you Mr.
Cohen.
You may begin.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities and Exchange Commission of 1933 and Section 21-E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risk and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other facts and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company's press release which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected in any circumstances after the date of the company's release.
It is now my great privilege to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Good evening and welcome to the first quarter 2013 earnings call for Cedar Realty Trust.
The first quarter was another solid quarter for our stable DC to Boston portfolio of grocery-anchored shopping centers.
Operating FFO for the quarter was $0.12 versus $0.11 in the comparable quarter of 2012 and same store NOI growth of 1.2%.
Overall leased occupancy and small shop leased occupancy were up slightly to 92.8% and 83.8% respectively on higher than typical lease volumes.
In addition both comparable new leases and renewals significantly improved on a cash basis at 12.3% and 7.3% respectively.
Leverage continued to tick down ending the quarter at 8.3 times on a debt-to-EBITDA basis.
Lastly our divestiture program has proceeded to pace in 2013 with a closing of three assets through today.
These results are a consequence of the many measures we have taken to reposition the company taking route and beginning to bear fruit.
Whether it has improved net operating income due to our intense focus on leasing and expense management our reduced overhead due to improved corporate efficiency and reduced headcount as well as our declining cost of capital and leverage Cedar is beginning to resemble what we were hoping to see consistently in the quarters and years ahead that is a well managed company that is highly analytical and strategic in its decision making judicious in its capital allocations and prudent in its balance sheet management.
As I note nearly every day this remarkable transformation and ongoing progress is a credit to both my colleagues who are joining me on this call namely Philip Mays Brenda Walker Nancy Mozzachio Michael Winters Tom Richey and Stuart Widowski as well as the balance of team Cedar who have committed themselves to every day excellence.
Before handing over the call to Phil for a review of some financial highlights I wanted to briefly touch on how we continue to add value through the implementation of our five part strategic plan.
Our plan in summary is to focus on grocery-anchored centers between Washington DC and Boston; to drive strong results through leasing and operations; to create value through targeted capital investments into our existing portfolio; to intensify our footprint through selective acquisitions; and to continually improve and strengthen our balance sheet.
First as we have mentioned before our definition of a grocery retailer changes as the grocery business itself changes and today includes more than the classic supermarket.
Accordingly you should expect our portfolio to evolve just as the grocery business evolves to include various types of retailers that sell groceries and pursue different grocery strategies.
This will manifest itself as we execute our portfolio intensification and capital recycling program.
I would also note however that despite the nearly constant commentary about the impending demise of the traditional supermarket we are seeing solid interest in leasing activity within that component of our portfolio.
I expect there will be more specific information to discuss on our second quarter call in this regard.
Second in terms of leasing and operations our renewed focus on these competencies has had a positive impact on all our metrics.
We had another strong quarter of positive spreads on over 225 000 square feet of production.
One particularly exciting new lease is the 57 000 square foot Hobby Lobby lease at Trexlertown Plaza.
This lease replaces an expiring Cedar's lease but also encompasses more than 30 000 square feet of very challenging space that have been vacant for almost seven years.
This lease and some of the small shop leasing at that center as well are prime examples of how redevelopments such as the one we are completing at Trexlertown Plaza drive ancillary leasing and therefore enhance the yield on invested capital beyond what might be captured in a pro forma.
On this topic of our dark anchor replacement strategy we are very pleased with the progress we are making and feel that this slow and steady approach to value creation within our portfolio will result in a measurable improvement to the quality and diversity of our tenant roster.
We expect to make meaningful progress during 2013 that we will discuss when respective deals are finalized.
Third on the redevelopment front during the first quarter we made solid progress at Colonial Commons in Harrisburg where we are removing a long vacant theater and replacing it with soft goods concepts.
We have signed a lease with Old Navy and are far along in our lease negotiations with another significant national tenant.
We continue to aggressively pursue other redevelopments and value add opportunities at our [centers] and plan to disclose and discuss them as they ripen.
Fourth I want to share with you how we are thinking about intensifying our geographic footprint through selective acquisitions.
As we have mentioned on prior calls our objective is to improve our average asset quality by selling our weaker assets and acquiring stronger assets.
When we think of asset quality we are focused on a number of qualitative and financial characteristics.
However the element we should expect to consistently see in any acquisition is that it is an asset in our DC to Boston footprint with higher population density than our average density and that is anchored by a grocery retailer.
Over the past few months we have been actively pursuing opportunities in our target markets and are gradually building a pipeline of potential acquisitions that are consistent with these elements.
Fifth in terms of our balance sheet we continue making strides in our divestiture and de-levering program.
Broadly speaking there are two significant assets that we still need to get under contract; the Shore Mall near Atlantic City New Jersey and Oakhurst Plaza in Harrisburg Pennsylvania.
The Shore Mall is currently being de-malled and converted into a high occupancy strip center.
We expect to have the project completed by the end of the third quarter and plan to take the asset to market at that time.
Oakhurst an unanchored strip center is being further leased up in advance of taking it to market though we have already started speaking with prospective buyers.
In conclusion we are confidently staying true to the course we described when we first introduced the new Cedar back in November of 2011 on our third quarter call.
Since that call we are one of the best performing shopping center REITs as measured by total shareholder return.
That said we have a long way to go before we can point to an extended track record of consistent value creation and hopefully outperformance.
To that end I can assure you that we are keenly focused on continuing to drive strong corporate and real estate results in order to deliver robust total shareholder returns over a sustained period.
With that I give you Philip Mays.
Thanks Bruce and good evening everyone.
We are very pleased with our first quarter results.
These results are the products of consistent focus and execution in several areas by many individuals on our team.
Beginning with our financial results operating FFO was $0.12 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $0.11 for the same period last year.
In order to fully appreciate this increase consider two significant items.
First this quarter we had very little noise related to the unwinding of our RioCan joint venture which took place in the fourth quarter of last year.
All of the net proceeds received from the unwind have now been utilized to repay mortgages.
Further the RioCan management agreement has ended and we have delivered on our promise to reduce corporate costs by approximately $2.5 million annually to replace the lost management fee income.
Second this increase in operating FFO was accomplished by reducing debt and our financial leverage.
We ended the quarter with net debt-to-EBITDA at 8.3 times.
More importantly we remain on-track to achieve our near term target of getting below 8 times upon the completion of our disposition program.
When you consider both of these items our increase in operating FFO really is a solid outcome.
Moving to property results; same property NOI increased by 1.2% for the quarter.
Again this excludes the timing impact associated with replacing the dark anchor at Oakland Commons.
This quarter was also impacted by significantly higher snow removal costs.
The snow removal costs for the first quarter of 2013 and 2012 were held constant same property NOI growth would have increased by 1.8%.
Now because of the size of our same property NOI I [incurred] the valuation of our full year and not to place too much emphasis on the results for any one quarter.
These higher snow removal costs are a great case in point.
Total snow removal costs increased about $1 million but as we recover almost 90% of these costs the net extent impacting our same property NOI was only about $100 000.
However as the same property NOI was just under $20 million for the quarter this does affect same property NOI growth even though the amount was relatively small and had no real impact on FFO.
With regards to leasing and occupancy; the lease percentage for our total portfolio increased to 92.8% at end of the quarter to 92.7% last quarter and 91.3% a year ago.
However the occupancy percentage for our portfolio decreased slightly to 91.5% at the end of the quarter.
The slight decrease in occupancy was related to seasonal moveouts and planned downtime to relocate some tenants.
Bruce noted some leasing highlights for the quarter but let me provide a few more details.
During the quarter we signed 40 leases for a total of 225 000 square feet at a weighted average rent of $12.12 per square foot.
Excluding the one lease Bruce noted for 57 000 square feet a space that has largely remained vacant for seven years the weighted average rent for signed leases was $13.87 per square foot.
On a comparable basis we signed 36 new and renewable basis for 163 000 square feet at a positive spread of 8.2%.
This spread is very consistent with our comparable lease spread of 8.1% over the trailing four quarters.
Now reviewing our balance sheet; on our fourth quarter call I will walk you through the refinancing in February of the last of our 8.875% Series A Preferred with 7.25% Series B Preferred issued at a yield of 7.375%.
Again we are pleased with this execution and that we have now retired all of our higher cost Series A preferred.
This represents a significant step in our efforts to drive down our cost of capital.
Further we ended the quarter with about $74 million of capacity on our line of credit and less than $15 million of debt maturities in 2013 excluding one mortgage with an extension option.
Additionally I'd like to note we could increase our line of credit capacity to approximately $130 million by adding our recently unencumbered properties to our line of credit borrowing base.
Before turning to guidance let me make a quick note about our supplemental financial information we filed earlier today.
In an effort to continue to improve the financial information we provide we made several additions and changes to our supplement.
I just want to highlight the most significant change.
We are now including leasing spreads on new comparable leases in addition to renewals.
Further as the sample size of new leases can be small for any one quarter we are including this information for the trailing four quarters.
And turning to guidance; we are reaffirming our full year 2013 operating FFO guidance at $0.46 to $0.49 per diluted share.
The underlying key assumptions such as property same property NOI growth of 1% to 2% still remained consistent with those discussed on our last call.
Finally I want to briefly discuss one variable to consider in our guidance range and that is the potential impact of dispositions related to our remaining assets held for sale.
If we were to sell all of these assets at one time it would not be a significant impact to our FFO guidance.
However as you would expect some of these dispositions are dilutive and other such as land and the assets being conveyed to the lenders are accretive.
Accordingly until we get a little further into the year and gain a little more visibility about the timing of these dispositions we are leaving our guidance range unchanged at this time.
And with that I will open the call to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Todd.
I just wanted to dig into the leasing environment a bit.
Bruce you mentioned that the leasing activity in the quarter was a little higher than expected and I was wondering if you or Nancy may be could speak to what's driving the sort of uptick in leasing volume here and where it seems to be coming from primarily? Hi Todd it's Nancy.
I think to set the stage I mean it's an improving economy.
There is very little new development out there.
We have access with supermarket anchors and are value oriented retailers today who have a very robust open to buy programs and they are attracted to that type of asset.
So I think that speaks to why we are seeing some volume uptick.
As Bruce mentioned in his remarks we were happy to report a new lease with Hobby Lobby that's in one of our Pennsylvania assets as you know it's a redevelopment property.
So we have worked hard with those two assets to put the right kind of mix in place and we are seeing the fruit from those efforts.
So I would say when I look at the activity that happened in the last quarter I'd say its spread pretty equally across the platform.
Would you say that it's also spread fairly evenly between the anchors and sort of non-anchors and then if you even look at sort of the inline non-anchor space are you seeing any pickup in terms of leasing from local operators or is it still primarily national and regional retailers? When you say local I think the definition of local has changed somewhat.
I think its representative of franchisees today.
You know you have a number of reasons why there are individuals who have chosen the franchisee routes.
I think brand recognition is one.
It's less risky for an individual opening up a business when you know that there is money that's in a program to promote that business.
So that local operators there they are just in a different format they are in the franchisee under the franchisee umbrella.
But I'd say we are seeing that.
We are seeing well capitalized franchisees and local and national regional tenants.
Okay and then I think along with guidance there was the expectation for about a 100 basis point increase in occupancy at year end and I think the small shop leased rate was 83.8%.
I was just wondering where you think that might be at year end in terms of thinking about the 100 basis points overall? I'd say we are probably expecting to be about 84 to 85 is a reasonable number for small shop.
Okay.
Then just switching over to acquisition.
It sounds like there is some potential investments on the horizon.
I was just wondering Bruce maybe if you could share with us some thoughts as to what we might expect from Cedar as the company shifts from defense to offense here in terms of the appetite of the company at this point and maybe you could talk a little bit about pricing that you are seeing in the market as you begin to evaluate deals? Okay.
I will answer that and I would also like to add another wrinkle to our discussion of acquisition.
So in terms of the type of acquisitions that we are looking at I think I described them reasonably completely in my remarks which is that we are looking to intensify our footprint so they are going to be assets that fit within the DC to Boston footprint that the company currently has.
They are going to be anchored or a significant tenant is going to be a grocery retailer which as I also added to my comment doesn't necessarily mean a supermarket.
And then the third element which is a critical element is that when we think about demographic especially for a grocer as opposed to some other types of retailers we are much more focused on population density over household income.
That's not to say that we are not interested in household income but we are much more focused on the density piece and as we look at assets I think that's going to be a feature.
So probably trying to get a little bit closer into some urban areas might be a characteristic.
But again I don't want to get ahead of ourselves let's get the deal done and then we will announce the deals then we will live the assets for a long time where we will be able to tell you all about them.
The one thing that I would add though is how we underwrite acquisitions just maybe a little bit of a deviation from how the company might have looked at acquisitions previously which is that clearly a big focus is how the return opportunity within the asset relates to our cost of capital and so we have already started bidding on deals.
We have had a lot of discipline from a pricing perspective which is why we haven't announced any acquisitions and we will continue to bring a lot of discipline to how we price deals.
But again there is a very keen focus within the company on making sure that the returns and the opportunity embedded in the asset makes sense considering our cost of capital.
So I'd say that that's an important element to add.
You'd asked about prevailing cap rates and certainly that's a function of the markets and different markets at different cap rate qualities.
I would say broadly that what we are seeing -- and this is a positive trend for Cedar is that there is more of a dynamic move in the secondary markets in which certain of our assets fit from a cap rate perspective than we are seeing in some of our aspirational markets.
So in our aspirational markets we are seeing relatively low cap rates.
Certainly cap rates lower than in the markets in which many of our assets fit today.
But those cap rates are relatively static.
So there has been a compression in cap rates but we don't see this ongoing severe compression in cap rates in many of our aspirational markets.
That said in the secondary markets in which many of our assets currently sit we are seeing a very dramatic compression in cap rates and so we see this as a potentially very virtue with the dynamic where the capital recycling program that we contemplated in which we acquire better assets and we sell inferior assets the way this could play out is that in fact the assets that we ultimately sell could experience the cap rate compression that allows us to minimize the dilutive impact of improving our average asset quality.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just I guess one last follow-up to that I guess based on your comments are you evaluating additional properties within the portfolio for sale today that weren't initially contemplated in the original divestiture program? Great question Todd and the answer is a qualified yes.
So what I mean by that is that we are not actively looking to sell any assets.
The divestiture program that we contemplated was really -- had two purposes both of which continue to be the objective behind the program which is why we are continuing to drive it through to a conclusion.
One is to focus the company strategically and the other is to use the capital embedded in tune of our assets to reduce our leverage and that continues to be the reason why we are pursuing that divestiture program.
When we think about capital recycling which again by definition involves selling certain assets and buying other assets that is more of what I would call just a classic portfolio management strategy.
What we are looking to do is just improve our average asset quality and the average will improve both by adding assets that are better assets and by divesting assets that are inferior assets.
But that's going to occur over a period of time and there is no intent today to necessarily sell an asset.
That said I can assure you that if you think about the company over the next three to five years we are almost without a doubt going to be sellers of weaker assets and hopefully buyers of better assets.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Well thank you.
I guess continuing with the conversation about your external investments I am wondering just given the competitive nature for acquisitions are you going to be -- do you need to get projects with a little hair on them to buy them and how do you balance that against redevelopment of your existing properties? Hi Craig.
That's a great question and the answer is I think something that you would probably find to be sort of intuitive which is we don't compete for every center.
We don't compete with people who have a significantly lower cost of capital than us for the best centers and that said there is a significant universe of opportunities for us to improve our portfolio where we are not necessarily competing with people who have significantly lower cost of capital than us.
So we don't necessarily have to buy assets with hair on them it's more that we have to be selective and thoughtful in which assets we acquire.
One of the great things about Cedar and one of the things that gets us excited is that because we have a relatively small platform it doesn't take very much from a positive perspective to really move the needle in a positive direction so when we think about acquisitions we are not thinking about a need to put out certain amounts of money in a certain period of time or to buy a certain number of assets.
Rather what we are thinking about is being selective and thoughtful in making targeted investments in order to grow the portfolio.
So that's how I would think about the acquisition piece.
We continue to seek to complement the desire to invest back into our portfolio with acquisitions.
I think as a practical matter the opportunity set to invest into our portfolio grows as we grow our portfolio and so there certainly is a virtuous relationship between acquisitions and redevelopment.
But the other thing as a practical matter is that redevelopments take time and so as we continue to pursue these redevelopments and as we contemplate growing the number of assets in which we are pursuing redevelopments we just recognize that these are dual capital requirements that the company will have.
These are dual ways for us to create shareholder value but we don't see them as mutually exclusive.
Okay great.
Then just -- what's the next step for Oakland Commons? I mean it seems like there is two [tenders] there you are 100% leased unless the Bristol Ten Pin is rolling soon or if you have expansion opportunities.
I guess it would seem like it might be a candidate for sale? Craig I have to tell you first of all I commend you for having that detail of a familiarity with our portfolio.
I am only disappointed you didn't reference the fact that the Ten Pin pays $0.98 a square foot in rent.
The answer is that the way we look at that particular asset is that we are hoping to acquire the bowling alley and if we can acquire the bowling alley we could significantly improve the rent stream from that and certainly if we could get it priced right we would pursue it.
It's not and we concluded after a period of time that it was not an option for us and we would potentially look to sell that asset.
To your point its -- it would be a pretty stable asset that would actually be on the smaller side.
So again that's something that we are looking at at that particular center and certainly there is a long way to go with regards to what you think the market rents are there would be certainly quite an improvement if we can grow it from the less than $1 square foot we are currently getting at.
I am confident that Nancy could do -- okay thank you.
Thanks Craig.
[Operator Instructions].
Our last question comes from the line of Josh Patinkin from BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
On the $1.1 million impairment reversal would you mind explaining what happened there during the quarter? Yeah Josh this is Phil.
At the end of last year we had -- the only mortgage that we had like this that was -- mortgage receivable that was secured by some lender in Ohio.
The owners there missed the payment and when we evaluated it we wanted to be conservative on our marks on how much of it we could receive and we reached a settlement with those guys and they paid us $1 million that was the reversal.
The only other point I would make because you know this is -- again the only mortgage [lexis] we had and it's also one that we impaired when we got here.
But a nice outcome we got $1 million of cash where we weren't sure we would get anything.
Okay.
So does that stop some of the non-cash interest that you were paying on some of the assets out there? So that's two separate issues there.
This is a mortgage receivable where the company had made a loan and that it was secured by some lender in Ohio again and the guys missed the payment on it.
So we wrote it down very conservative at the end of last year and then we actually got $1 million in cash.
The non-cash interest is related to four assets that we were returning to lenders at about $20 million of debt of actually scheduling our supplement that goes through those loans what the amounts are for each one and what the interest rates are and we are not paying any of that so that's just all non-cash interest that's going through earnings.
One of the properties is vacant so there is no cash there for the lender to take.
The others they actually have tenants but the lenders (inaudible) the cash there too.
But those assets are all under water and that's why we were handing them back.
Okay.
Sticking with some of the debt stuff you mentioned that you could increase the secured line if you added unencumbered assets.
How big is the unencumbered pool today and what percentage of NOI? It's probably just over 35% of our NOI and that's up significantly from just fewer than 25% when we started the disposition program.
Further what's interesting if you look out over our maturities over -- while we have very little in 2013 remaining.
If you look at 2014 2015 2016 there is about $100 million each year of mortgages coming due.
So that will give us an opportunity as we move forward to further increase the unencumbered portion of our NOI.
Are you thinking about pursuing an unsecured model here for Cedar? I would just probably take one step at a time.
As that happens that would just be the outcome of pursuing a good business line.
Right.
Okay and then finally on the redevelopment program you guys mentioned a couple of calls ago that you consider about $100 million over the next up cycle or the next few years.
Any progress there any thoughts that you would like to share at this point? I think we are staying true to that prediction.
I think we talked about doing $20 million to $30 million this year and I think that that's probably going to be the level if not better at which we are going to pursue redevelopments in the years to come.
So again if our company grows that component of our company will grow one of the -- an element of the business that contributes to earnings beyond the core portfolio and what we drive out of leasing and good operation.
So again it will be a number that you could expect to stay at that level or grow as the company grows.
Okay any big elephants or is this just a bunch of small deals aggregated up? It's really both.
We have some deals that we are working on that are not in this $20 million to $30 million number that could be significant call it $10 million $20 million may be even $30 million type endeavors and then we have a whole slew of $1 million to $5 million investments things like pad sites very dramatic façade renovations include other physical renovations at the center.
So it's really -- it runs the gamut.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much gentlemen.
Thanks Josh.
Thanks Josh.
There are no further questions.
I would like to hand the call back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining us this evening.
We sincerely appreciate your interest in Cedar.
We look forward to continuing to clearly articulate goals and then achieve those goals all in furtherance of creating long term and sustainable value.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen Investor Relations for ICR.
Thank you Mr.
Cohen.
You may begin.
The ICR Group</strong> Thank you operator.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other facts and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press release which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected under any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my privilege to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thanks Brad.
Welcome to the second quarter 2013 earnings call for Cedar Realty Trust.
This quarter was another solid quarter with $0.12 per share in operating FFO.
With our continued earnings visibility and operating stability we are comfortable tightening 2013 guidance as we announced in our earnings release.
That said what I am most excited about were our accomplishments this quarter on the leasing and capital structure fronts and what these accomplishments pretend for the future of this company.
We leased roughly 350 000 square feet at a 10.3% positive spread on a cash basis.
These figures are both significantly higher than our historical averages and notably were helped by SuperValu’s early renewal of four Farm Fresh leases maturing in 2014 that we now have extended and renewed out to 2019.
In addition our same-store NOI grew 2.4% including redevelopments.
A critical element of the Cedar business model is the consistency with which our assets perform through all economic environments.
I would note that this remains the case.
So I would add that we are now positioned to achieve outsized and above trend earnings growth as we release over 30% of the square footage of our portfolio representing roughly a quarter of our revenue that is generally at the low market rents.
This quarter’s leasing results are the first to be impacted by what I would expect to be larger leasing volumes over the next two to three years on account of all this rolling square footage.
I am optimistic that with the tailwind that what appears to be a broadening of the economic recovery combined with a muted supply expansion we have the opportunity to reset the rents on a significant proportion of our portfolio with relatively modest capital investment.
This will be particularly satisfying since the challenge for any retail REIT is to reset leases as early as possible in an economic recovery in order to track or beat inflation.
At Cedar we have just such an opportunity which couples with the steadiness afforded by our grocery anchored shopping center straddling the DC to Boston corridor will enable us to continue to offer our shareholders stability supported by embedded portfolio growth.
On the capital structure front we continue to reduce our leverage reaching the eight times leverage mark a little sooner than promised.
The two things I would note about this leverage mark are first in the near-term this figure will definitely move around as we continue our dark anchor replacement strategy since those transactions tend to reduce EBITDA without reducing debt.
And second in the medium to long-term we intend to continue to drive down our leverage by completing our divestiture program and therefore through a constant focus on conservative balance sheet management.
We have also advanced ourselves on the capital structure front by recasting our corporate facility as an unsecured line of credit at a lower cost.
I will allow Phil to expand on this achievement in his comments.
Lastly we just implemented a common equity ATM program.
Although our intention is to not necessarily be in the market everyday selling stock we do think this is another attractive and low cost arrow in our capital alternatives quiver when utilized appropriately.
The improved flexibility that comes with less leverage combined with the improved the capital availability I just described support our gradual shift from defense to offense.
Without getting into too much detail this shift covers both certain redevelopment opportunities we are pursuing as well a number of attractive grocery anchor shopping center acquisitions that could serve to improve our average asset quality and intensify our geographic footprint.
As I’ve noted on prior calls our definition of what constitutes a grocery anchor has evolved just as the grocery business has changed and it goes beyond the classic supermarket to include superstores such as Wall-Mart and Target warehouse clubs such as Costco and B.J.’s as well as certain Dollar Stores that had significant grocery offerings.
We like the hire customer traffic generated by tenants with these offerings.
And I feel that a logical evolution to our portfolio composition and anchor mix.
I would expect to have more to discuss on some of these opportunities once the transaction is disclosed.
The second quarter of 2013 represented a note worthy period in the evolution of this company.
Although the capital markets have been choppy with the competing themes of economic expansion and higher real interest rates roiling all real estate stocks we have seen team Cedar continue to create value at the asset and corporate level by staying focused on our five part long-term strategic plan.
In summary our plan is to focus on grocery anchored centers between Washington DC and Boston to drive strong results through leasing and operations to create value through targeted capital investments into our existing portfolio to intensify our footprint and raise our average asset quality through selective capital recycling and to continually improve and strengthen our balance sheet.
This five part plan has become ingrained in our corporate culture and I would be remiss if I do not acknowledge the members of team Cedar and all of the work they have done and continued to do in further ends of meeting these objectives.
While on this subject of the team I would like to introduce a new team member and say a few words about a departing executive.
This evening in addition to my fellow senior executives namely Philip Mays Brenda Walker Nancy Mozzachio Michael Winters and Stuart Widowski we are joined by Charles Burkert our new Head of Construction and Development.
Charles is replacing Tom Richey who has decided to retire from Cedar after an illustrious 15 year career.
Charles joined us from Brixmor where he held a similar position.
Charles is more than 20 years of experience between Brixmor and its predecessor entities as well as Rose &amp; Associates.
He has already hit the ground running and we are excited for what future holds with Charles on board.
I would like to take a moment and acknowledge our dear friend Tom.
Tom has decided to retire to spend more time with his family and more generally stay closure to home.
He has been a friend and admired colleague to all of us here at Cedar.
It has been an honor to work with Tom.
He is a role model to all of us due to his professionalism and personal integrity.
Tom we wish you and your family much health and happiness in the years ahead.
With that I give you Phil Mays.
Thanks Bruce and good evening everyone.
On this call I’ll briefly highlight our balance sheet improvements discuss our operating results and provide an update on guidance.
Starting with the balance sheet on August 1st we closed $310 million unsecured credit facility.
The facility consists of a three year $260 million revolver that had two one year extension options a five year $50 million term loan and is initially priced at LIBOR plus 195 basis points.
The new unsecured facility replaces our prior secured facility and immediately decreases our bond rate margin by 55 basis points extend our debt maturity profile and provide additional flexibility for future financing.
Closing this new facility roughly two years after introducing the new Cedar provides an appropriate time to highlight some of the balance sheet improvements accomplished to-date.
We decreased debt to EBITDA by over a full term from an excess of nine times when we started to eight times at the end of this quarter.
Further we’ve realized the $107 million of the target $150 million of dispositions and remain on track to reduce debt to EBITDA below eight times.
We reduced our prorated debt by almost $110 million while also decreasing our weighted average interest rate by 60 basis points.
We increased our unencumbered cash NOI from approximately 25% to almost 40% of our total NOI that’s providing the foundation for the new unsecured credit facility discussed earlier.
And we recapped $160 million of Series A preferred stock with $190 million of proceeds from a new Series B decreasing our yield by about 1.38%.
It’s important to note that these accomplishments were all achieved without a significant decrease in enterprise value or a significant dilution to operating FFO per share.
Before discussing operating results let me also note that in July we have decided the one year extension option on our $60 million Upland Square loan and repaid our $14 million Port Richmond Village mortgage.
As a result we have no debt maturities for the remainder of 2013.
Moving on to financial results operating FFO was $0.12 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $0.16 for the same period last year.
As previously noted last year included $3.4 million or approximately $0.05 per share of termination related income associated with replacing the dark anchor.
Excluding this termination in income operating FFO per share increased $0.01.
With respect to property results same property NOI increased 2.4% including redevelopment of properties and 1.4% excluding redevelopment of properties.
Consistent with the prior quarters both of these results exclude the temporary timing impact associated with replacing a dark anchor at Oakland Commons with the Wal-Mart Neighborhood market.
Notably we are pleased to report that this Wal-Mart Neighborhood market has completed its build-out opened for business and recently commenced paying rents.
Bruce noted a couple of leasing highlights but let me provide a little more detail.
During the quarter we signed 37 leases for a total of 350 000 square feet at a weighted average interest rate of $12.95 per square foot.
On a comparable basis we signed 33 new and renewal leases for 344 000 square feet at a positive spread of 10.3%.
Please keep in mind that the Farm Fresh leases Bruce discussed and the majority of the leases signed this year will not contribute significantly to earnings growth until 2014.
When the renewal period start for the existing tenants and the new tenants take occupancy.
At the end of this quarter our total portfolio was 92.7% leased and 92% occupied.
Our same-property portfolio was 93.9% leased and 93.4% occupied.
These percentages are generally consistent with last quarter except for our total portfolio occupancy has increased 50 basis points.
And turning to guidance with half of the year completed we are raising the low end of our full year 2013 operating FFO guidance and updated range of $0.47 to $0.49 per diluted share.
The underlying key assumptions remain consistent with those previously discussed.
This range takes into account the possible timing of our remaining dispositions and the potential downtime related to dark anchor replacements.
With that I will open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Nate Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
As you look ahead to ‘14 can you perhaps quantify the amount of leases that you have signed that you do not expect to take occupancy until next year both in terms of square footage perhaps total rent? Hi Nate it’s Nancy.
And kind of leases that are executed we expect them to actually take occupancies were trained I think at this point we anticipate that there is leases that are executed well in fact take occupancy before the end of 2013.
On the renewal front of course we are executing renewals today which will impact not go into effect until 2014.
Okay.
And then just in terms of what the total NOI that you expect coming online that’s going to impact ‘14 numbers? Hi Nate it’s Phil.
You are asking about leases that have already been completed? Correct or that you have good visibility on at this point? You are talking about a spread right now on the total portfolio is almost 70 basis points in lease and occupied.
Most of that is at about the same average rents that’s in places of higher some lower around 12 bucks.
Nancy believes (indiscernible) take occupancy by the end of the year.
And then on top of that for next year the largest thing you have got is the Farm Fresh leases that have already been done which Bruce talked about in his comments a little over 300 00 square feet up but I believe with this 8% to 9% and they will start actually I think the renewal period January so that you get that for the full year.
And of course just to add to his comments made we have the Old Navy lease that’s assigned for Colonial Commons which will actually commence paying rents in 2014 although they will take occupancy in ‘13.
And then we have Hobby Lobby at Trexlertown which was executed last quarter and is just by shy of 2 000 square feet and let’s call that less than $500 000 in annual revenues so that was full year revenue in ’14.
Sure.
And then Bruce you talked about the capital recycling both the selling as well acquisitions can you talk about the acquisitions environment and with you cost of capital how you – can you effectively compete in the core Mid-Atlantic markets and what type of – what your pipeline looks like at this point and is there anything imminent? Certainly that’s a great question.
And yes we are definitely actively looking for opportunities and because of our cost of capital and also to be fair because of the size of the company we are pretty selective and thoughtful about which assets we really key in and focus on.
In terms of where we stand we’ve definitely identified a couple of opportunities that we are pursuing pretty aggressively and that we hope to secure.
And when in fact we have we reached the point where it’s disclosable we will absolutely disclose them and talk more about them.
In terms of how we finance them I guess what I would say is the following.
Everything that we are looking to acquire is intended to achieve really to check three boxes.
One is it improves our average asset qualities in other words it’s an asset that is better than our average asset and hopefully one that with top quartile type asset for our portfolio.
The second thing is that it intensifies our footprint so in other words it’s an asset that fits within our Washington DC to Boston existing footprint and hopefully again enhances that footprint.
And then third element is that there is going to be some type of a grocery component although as I mentioned in my prepared remarks that doesn’t necessarily mean a supermarket it just means some type of a grocery retailer.
In terms of how we finance it and how we think about it relative to our cost of capital again there is no secret that we have slightly higher cost of capital than certain participants in the markets but we have a pretty competitive cost of capital and if we are thoughtful and selective of about what we pursue we are able to deals that really add value to the company and over the long-term will definitely increase our warranted share price.
Alright.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
In looking at the potential acquisitions are you seeing any changing in the prices of assets given the changes that are happening in the capital markets? Craig at this point I would say not at all.
So I would actually guide you to two different perspectives.
One is assets that we are looking to acquire and the second is assets that we are looking to divest and that would fall into two categories.
We have a held for sale bucket we are also exploring potentially selling assets as part of the capital recycling program where we would use the proceeds of asset sales to finance acquisitions.
So again we have absolute data points on both higher quality acquisitions lower quality acquisitions by others which would be acquisitions that assets were divesting and I would tell you the cap rates have been relatively sticky if you are comparing the time period before the Bernanke announcements on quantitative easing and today.
And so despite the sell-off in the REIT market we have not really seen much softening of cap rate expectations.
That said at least from a Cedar perspective I guess we are being a lot more thoughtful in terms of which assets we are pursuing.
So again when we think about our underwriting we are definitely on the exit cap rate for example when we look at our IRR now see we are certainly assuming some type of cap rate expansion really to be conservative.
But again I can’t tell you that we are seeing much in the way of loosening of cap rate expectations by sellers despite the softening in the REIT market.
Okay thank you Sure.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Jordan Saddler is here with me as well.
Question Phil the tenant reimbursement ratio dropped a bit from last quarter and I would have thought that that would have either remained steady or even increased a little bit with the occupancy increase here.
And I think last quarter I think snow removal costs came in a little bit high.
So I was just wondering is there anything one-time or non-reimbursable this quarter that would have impacted that ratio I am just trying to get a sense for what to expect over the next couple of quarters there? No last quarter you had snow which is generally close to 100% recoverable to the extent we have occupancy rate.
Nobody generally had an exclusion related to snow.
So when you have a lot of snow your recovery rate does tend to be a little higher.
No one gets some inclusion on that.
Okay.
Does that make sense Todd? Yes yes that does make sense actually.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then Bruce you talked about the opportunity here to renew and release sort of an above average volume of space over the next couple of years here.
I was just wondering you have given your comments on sort of the supply demand imbalance and the position that the company is in do you think that you will be able to achieve better rent escalators and other non-economic terms from retailers today? Well let me touch on that a little bit and then I will hand it over to Nancy to expand on it.
And she is really in the trenches on a lot of these lease negotiations.
What I would say by way of background is what we really pride ourselves on it Cedar is the fact that we have a very stable portfolio.
So in other words we have a portfolio that even during the recession really perform pretty solidly.
One of the reasons why you see on a relative basis modest same-store growth is that we are comparing ourselves with numbers that didn’t really did that much.
And so with that background we see again above trend growth as I would highlight above trend growth for Cedar because again we have relatively stable portfolio base.
In terms of the growth opportunity again what excites us is that with its very consistent portfolio we are able to add a little bit on top of that which is this opportunity to really release a significant proportion of our square footage in what we expect and what we are seeing is a pretty favorable landlord environment.
And so again that’s an equation that includes a whole slew of elements including things like better escalators as well as just better base rents and other terms that come up that are less reportable between landlords and tenants.
So with that I will let Nancy to comment specifically on escalators.
Hi Todd.
We are in fact seeing the opportunity to increase rents as more frequently than we did back in 2009 2010 where we had a great number of these leases that were created.
So let’s say we have let’s call 300 leases expiring in 2014 2015.
As Bruce mentioned if we think about our small shop member which right now is approaching 84% so we have about 2.5 million square feet in small shop.
And let’s say we were to increase that by 1% at second number $20 rent.
So the amount of revenue that generate for us is say $0.5 million and for us if we have that goal to increase each year by 1% that small shop occupancy number I mean these are kinds of numbers that we think that we can plan to report now and in the coming years.
But again I can’t emphasize enough what Bruce just said is that it’s part of all the initiatives that we have that are ongoing at the time it’s a piece it’s a enrollment piece it’s a important piece but it’s in fact of a piece of what we’re doing on the – leasing front.
In addition to the small shop the large shop replacement dark anchor program and some other things we have ongoing.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I’m sorry and then I’ve just the question the Walmart neighborhood market that began paying rent in the quarter.
I was just wondering if you could share with this when commenced just from a timing perspective.
Just trying to get a sense for how much rent or NOI is baked into the quarter run rate here.
So we could think about making an adjustment? They commenced rent July 18 Todd.
So it did a half of month and that is not a lot in the current quarter.
Okay and about how much NOI is that on the annualized basis? How much NOIs on an annualized basis? (Technical Difficulty) It’s around of 500.
Okay.
On an annual basis and so they were in for I said mid July so they were in for most of the quarter.
Okay that’s helpful.
Alright great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our next question comes from line of Nat Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah hi.
I’m I guess before I ask my next question I did want to echo your sentiment about Tom’s departure and it’s been pleasure working with him and wish him all the best.
Phil as you look at the balance sheet you have made some progress reducing leverage encumbered asset pool that’s 35% of NOI.
Where do you see the balance sheet going from here both in terms of leverage level and perhaps further that unencumbered pool and what that ultimately might mean? So we ended the quarter of leverage rate around eight times if we just complete the remaining dispositions that we originally targeted it will get us just below eight times.
Now there will be some noise like Bruce discussed around the dark anchorage and as we could have some temporary downtime that could bounce that around.
I think as we go forward you will see considerably finance acquisitions and probably continue to take that down a little more.
I know our unencumbered NOI is currently about 39%.
That will be – that will grow depending on acquisitions and how we finance them and how much equity we need.
So Nat this is Bruce just to expand on that.
One of the core parts of our strategy is really conservative balance sheet management that’s something that is the first leg of that was the execution of our near term strategic plan which contemplated selling the assets that we’ve been selling in order to get leverage down below eight times.
More broadly our objective is to continue to drive down leverage and continue to manage our balance sheet conservatively.
And so there are whole slew of different ways that that could potentially happen.
And a lot of it will depend on the various opportunities that either the capital markets afford us or different transactions afford us as well as benefits of generating cash flow in using that for its corporate purposes.
Alright thank you very much.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schanzer there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us.
The new Cedar is roughly two years old this quarter.
We have spent the past two years endeavoring to be a management team that produces consistent results in a reliable manner with an emphasis on transparency thoughtfulness and judiciousness when it comes to how we manage our capital structure and create value.
Hopefully the results we have described this evening whether the improvements in our leverage of our new unsecured corporate credit facility or the excellent leasing results with the promise of more to come give you a confidence that a foundation is being built for many years of strong results.
With that I wish you all a good evening.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Cedar Realty Trust Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Brad Cohen Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Cohen.
You may begin.
Thank you Operator.
Good afternoon.
At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during the call which are not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although the company believes that the expectations reflecting any forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions they are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The company can provide no assurance that expectations will be achieved and that actual results may or will differ.
Many other facts and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in the company’s press release which was put out this afternoon and from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements reflected under any circumstances after the date of the company’s release.
It is now my privilege to turn the call over to Mr.
Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and President.
Bruce? Thank you Brad.
And thank you everyone for joining us on our third quarter 2013 earnings call.
As always I’m joined on this call by the Senior Executives of Cedar namely Phil Mays our CFO; Brenda Walker our COO; Nancy Mozzachio our Head of Leasing; Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions and Dispositions; Charles Burkert our Head of Construction and Development; and Stuart Widowski our General Counsel.
The balance of team Cedar is dialed into this call.
I would like to sincerely thank my colleagues for their efforts in helping us achieve the strong results Phil Nancy and I will be discussing with you.
To begin I have some exciting news.
In the next week or so we anticipate closing on our first acquisition since my arrival here a Fairfield County Connecticut grocery-anchored shopping center.
There are a number of things that make this acquisition a milestone event.
First it improves our average asset quality in terms of average base rents projected growth and demographics and it further intensifies our D.C.
to Boston footprint.
Second it improves our portfolio diversification by state and by grocery anchor.
Third it is unencumbered and therefore allows us to avoid increasing leverage.
And last we can fund the approximately $34.5 million purchase price with the proceeds of bottom quartile asset sales we are currently pursuing.
We believe that this acquisition is consistent with the quality standard of the properties we hope to acquire in the future while furthering our capital recycling objectives and meeting our return requirements.
I would add that the seller in this transaction one of the premiere developers and owners of shopping centers in the Northeast elected to take Cedar [OP] units for approximately 5% of the purchase price which we take as a vote of confidence from a highly sophisticated owner and operator.
When we close we will provide more information on the transaction.
This earnings call marks the second anniversary of the introduction of the newly renamed and repositioned Cedar Realty Trust.
As you will recall two years ago we introduced a near-term strategic plan to divest all of our non-core assets with the proceeds used to reduce leverage.
By virtue of these dispositions the company is now primarily focused on grocery-anchored shopping centers between Washington D.C.
and Boston.
The central measurement of this endeavor was to reduce leverage on a debt-to-EBITDA basis below eight times by this earnings call.
As you will see from our earnings release we have in fact achieved just that with our leverage at 7.8 times at the end of the quarter.
The nice thing about this achievement is that with a number of divestiture transactions yet to close there is room to further reduce leverage as we put the finishing touches on this successfully executed plan.
In addition to delivering on our near-term portfolio repositioning plan we have similarly begun to execute on the capital recycling plan we laid out a few quarters ago.
We are currently exploring the sale of certain lower quartile shopping centers.
These properties have weaker demographics and lower growth than the center we are acquiring.
Accordingly in acquiring a prime Fairfield County Connecticut Center while divesting bottom quartile centers in terms of growth and demographics we are moving the asset quality needle twice first with the addition of a high quality center and second with the subtraction of a number of lower quality centers.
Another gratifying accomplishment I would like to share with you is that we have completed our second dark anchor replacement with the execution of a lease with Walmart Neighborhood Market.
This paves the way for the redevelopment at our Kempsville Crossing shopping center in Virginia Beach.
Notably there is meaningful small shop space that we have carefully managed to keep on relatively short-term leases in anticipation of this Walmart deal.
We expect to realize a double-digit unlevered IRR on the roughly $3 million capital investment associated with anchor retenanting and redevelopment as we leverage the appeal of this very high quality anchor by growing small shop rents and occupancy.
Continuing on the topic of leasing we had another robust quarter of leasing as we continued to benefit from the opportunity presented by having roughly one-third of our leases rolling in the next three years at below market rents.
We signed 54 new and renewal leases for 227 000 square feet at an average base rent of $14.29 per square foot of which all the two were comparable.
The 52 comparable new and renewal leases were done at a roughly 11% increase on a cash basis with very limited tenant improvement expense.
We ended the quarter 92.8% leased portfolio wide notably on a same center basis we are now over 94% leased with same center NOI growth of 2.3%.
Nancy will expand on our leasing accomplishments in her comments.
In taking stock of what we have accomplished since introducing the new Cedar and rolling out our near-term strategic plan we have done what we said we would do.
What is particularly rewarding for us is that in executing our near-term strategic plan of rationalizing our portfolio we didn't simply solve for a single leverage statistic.
Let me be specific we have grown our quarterly run rate FFO per share by nearly 20%.
We have reduced our overhead by roughly 20% and have dramatically taken headcount down by nearly 40%.
We have grown both portfolio and small shop occupancy and we have meaningfully improved our portfolio quality we have streamlined and simplified our corporate disclosure with among other things a vastly improved supplemental.
We have revamped our balance sheet through the transition to an unsecured corporate facility.
We have driven down our cost of capital through our debt and preferred refinancings.
Last and most significantly we have transformed this company into a high performing highly analytical and collaborative organization.
In shifting from defense to offense one thing that will persist is that we will continue to do what we say we will do.
As we have described previously the central elements of our long-term plan include making the most of the re-leasing opportunity we have in front of us over the coming years.
Investing back into our portfolio through carefully-underwritten redevelopments continuing to execute on our capital recycling strategy and maintaining a laser like focus on balance sheet strength and flexibility I can assure you all of this will be done methodically analytically and with a sense of duty towards our shareholders.
With that I give you Nancy who will expand on this quarter's leasing results and provide further context around the leasing upside opportunity we see in the coming few years.
Nancy? Thanks Bruce.
Our healthy third quarter leasing results are a direct consequence of the measures we have taken to become streamlined geographically and focused primarily on grocery anchored centers.
Our leasing strategy has evolved in a similarly disciplined manner.
The central elements of our strategy include leveraging our local market boots on the ground expertise regarding the markets in which we operate utilizing a well-constructed process that combines thorough financial analysis collaboration between various departments with prompt decision making focus on anchor upgrades in connection with redevelopment and retenanting projects and communicating early and often with existing tenants prior to lease expiration to drive successful results.
In the third quarter we leased approximately 37 000 square feet of vacant space with an average first year rent of $20.23 per square foot.
Renewal activity was strong for the quarter as over 190 000 square feet of renewals were signed at cash spreads of 7.3% signifying over 30 quarters of positive spreads.
Further during the quarter we secured a lease with Ulta a large national cosmetics retailer at our Colonial Commons center in Harrisburg Pennsylvania.
Ulta will occupy space in the center next to Old Navy.
Both tenants will open in the spring of 2014 once we complete the redevelopment of that section of the center where there was previously a vacant movie theatre.
The redevelopment of Colonial Commons and resulting high quality leases is a perfect example of Cedar's focus on investing back into our centers at attractive rates of return since at this center we are investing approximately $3.5 million and achieving a solid double-digit unlevered IRR.
Moreover we have signed another dark anchor replacement that we expect will enhance future portfolio productivity.
Specifically a new grocery lease was executed with Walmart Neighborhood Market to replace a dark Farm Fresh store at our Kempsville Crossing Center in Virginia Beach.
The store is expected to open during the third quarter of 2014.
A key element of the dark anchor replacement strategy is maintaining small shop leasing flexibility until such time the new anchor is announced.
In this Virginia Beach asset we carefully controlled occupancy while negotiating the grocery lease and are now poised to recognize substantial new lease rent gain by replacing older lesser credit quality tenants with new superior credit small shop tenants and retenanting and our parcel.
Negotiations on a third dark grocery placement are underway.
We hope to announce the completion of that lease in the coming quarters.
It too should allow us to recognize substantial net rent gains in a manner similar to our Virginia Beach project.
I would now like to take a moment to expand on Bruce's comments concerning upcoming lease rollovers that will provide us meaningful opportunities.
With over 3 million square feet expiring within the next three years we see this as a meaningful opportunity for rent growth throughout the portfolio particularly as tenant profitability improves and supply constraints in our markets continue for the foreseeable future.
This is a situation we have been strategizing about for well over a year.
We are very well-positioned to maximize the benefits to Cedar by leveraging our deep knowledge of the markets we operate in coupled with substantial analysis of each renewal situation.
In conclusion I would note that our third quarter leasing results are a continuation of the positive leasing trends at Cedar that are primarily driven by three factors.
First our new corporate direction has brought greater focus and structure to the leasing team and has better-integrated leasing initiatives within our development pipeline.
Second the macroeconomic environment within our markets combines economic expansion with modest supply growth.
This offers us a remarkably favorable operating environment.
Last the opportunity to release over a third of our square footage in the coming years considering the company's specific improvements we have made and the remarkably positive market backdrop makes me optimistic regarding the trajectory of our leasing efforts in the coming quarters and years.
With that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy and good evening everyone.
On this call I will highlight our operating results and provide an update on our balance sheet and guidance.
Starting first with operating results.
Operating FFO was $0.13 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $0.11 for the same period last year.
This represents $0.02 per share increase or 18% growth in operating FFO.
This increase in operating FFO was driven approximately half by property NOI growth and half by reduction in interest expense and preferred dividends.
In the prior year we did receive some earnings from the RioCan JV but as you may recall this JV was ultimately unwound in a manner that was FFO-neutral.
Moving to property results.
Same-property NOI increased 2.3% excluding redevelopment and excluding the favorable impact of re-tenanting the dark anchor at Oakland Commons.
Including the impact of re-tenanting Oakland Commons same-property NOI increased 3.2%.
As a reminder we report same-property NOI on a cash basis and as discussed on the last call the new Walmart Neighborhood Market at Oakland Commons began paying cash rent in July of this year.
With respect to our balance sheet we ended the quarter with net debt-to-EBITDA at 7.8 times thus making good on our promise to take leverage from over nine times two years ago to under eight times by this quarter.
Now to work through the second dark anchor replacement announced today along with the temporary debt funding of the Connecticut property acquisition this number may bump up and down a little over the next few quarters.
However we still have a few dispositions to complete from our original de-leveraging plan and as Bruce noted we are also exploring the sale of certain additional properties.
Once completed the proceeds from these dispositions will more than maintain the progress we have made on the leverage front.
Before leaving the balance sheet let me add a brief note about liquidity.
We ended the quarter with over $100 million available on our line of credit.
More importantly even after completing the Connecticut property acquisition and closing dispositions currently under contract we will still have about $100 million available in our line of credit.
And lastly turning to guidance.
With our solid property results and more clarity regarding the timing of dispositions we are raising and narrowing our full-year 2013 operating FFO guidance range to $0.50 to $0.51 per diluted share from the previous range of $0.47 to $0.49 per diluted share.
Notably the acquisition of the Fairfield County Connecticut property and the downtime associated with our second dark anchor replacement combined will not have a significant impact on FFO for the fourth quarter.
And with that I'll open the call to questions.
Hi.
Just focusing on this acquisition in Fairfield County can you talk broadly in terms of the growth opportunities in that asset and perhaps the age of the asset? (Inaudible) detail and may read but just broadly it's an asset with a fair amount of growth in it.
Certainly based on our underwriting growth well in excess of the growth we've seen in many of our assets certainly on average and it's a relatively new asset.
Okay.
And then I mean can you just talk a little bit about your cost of capital and how you made this work? It’s a great question Nate.
Again the way we think about acquisitions from that perspective and obviously we think about acquisitions from a whole bunch of perspectives but in terms of that particular perspective we think -- we evaluate the return using generically either a 10-year unlevered IRR analysis or if there's some peculiarities to an asset we might refine the hold period so that it works with the lease rolls.
In this case we looked at it on a 10-year basis.
And the combination of the going in cap rate which wasn't particularly bad for an asset of this quality coupled with the growth rate delivers to us an unlevered IRR well in excess of our cost of capital.
And so again this deal works on that basis.
Okay.
And is there anything behind it that's somewhat visible? I'm not sure if I understand the question.
Well what's your pipeline looking for looking… Absolutely.
Again yes I'm pretty reluctant to get into too much detail on that.
We do have other deals that we're either in negotiations on or that we're pursuing.
However our base plan subject to unforeseen opportunities is to really do -- to pursue growth on an asset-by-asset basis one at a time.
And so again we do have a pipeline of opportunities.
But we're going to pursue them methodically and carefully with a lot of very thorough due diligence.
And so I can't tell you that there's another deal immediately on the heels of this one but there are other deals that we're actively pursuing and negotiating right now.
How did you source this one? Yes we have Mike Winters our head of acquisitions has a vast network in our markets.
It's one of our strategic advantages and this was a relationship that he had for a very long time.
And it was an opportunity that he's been aware of for a while and we were able to take advantage of it.
All right.
Thanks.
Then Nancy you talked about the opportunity in the near term 3 million square feet rolling.
Can you give us a bit of a sense of what you think the mark-to-market on those 3 million square feet are? Well I think it's important to understand that let's take the coming year 2014 essentially slightly over 900 000 square feet.
I'd say 40% of that is without the benefit of having an embedded option.
So it gives us an opportunity to really force rents.
If you take a look at our expiring small shop average rents for 2014 it's roughly $15.40 per square foot.
And just this past quarter we were able to accomplish average base rents of $20.23 per square foot essentially all small shop commitments.
So it just gives you a little sense of what we could potentially expect.
Sure.
And so of those 3 million how many would you say have tenant options attached to them? Again year-by-year in 2014 60% of those leases essentially have options associated with them.
As you get into 2015 it’s slightly less than that.
It's probably just under 30%.
And maybe just excuse me -- just over 16% in 2016… Okay.
Without (inaudible).
All right thanks.
And then on this new Walmart Neighborhood Market deal what type of capital is Cedar spending on that? I think I'd mentioned it.
I think it was in my comments about $3 million.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sorry.
No problem.
Nate just to expand on one point that Nancy had made even with the rolling leases that have renewal options many of them still have contractual embedded rent bumps that are pretty substantial.
Okay.
Thanks.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Todd.
Hi.
First question regarding the redevelopments you mentioned Kempsville and Colonial Commons I was just wondering as you look through the portfolio if you could talk about maybe how deep the pipeline of projects like these are that you think you have over the next couple of years? Maybe if you could sort of quantify as you spend some time going through the portfolio over the last couple years now.
How much redevelopment and re-tenanting there is in the portfolio where you might have opportunities to yield these high single-digit or double-digit returns like these projects? Well let me break up that answer into a few different buckets.
I think that we've guided folks generally to an average annual spend of $20 million to call it $30 million a year and that's made up of projects of the size that we described on this call.
One is about $3 million the other is about $3.5 million.
Smaller deals as well as deals that are significantly larger.
We're actively pursuing a whole slew of opportunities between redevelopment opportunities that are outgrowth of dark anchor replacements as well as redevelopment opportunities that are outgrowths of existing tenants who want to expand and things of that nature.
So I would guide you to the annual spend.
I'll call it $20 million but I can't tell you that we necessarily have deals that specifically look like these ones but rather deals that fall within a continuum of anywhere between $2 million to deals that potentially could be well in excess of $20 million.
Okay.
Got it.
And then at Kempsville are you able to share with us what the rent spread looks like for the Walmart relative to the Farm Fresh at $11.17 a square foot? Yes we can't share that at this moment in time.
Okay.
And then I was just wondering if you could give us an update looking at Page 22 in the supplement the real estate held for sale and conveyance.
I was just wondering if you could give us an update on some of the remaining divestitures in that schedule? Okay.
So -- this is Bruce.
I think that what I would say is the following -- of the -- just going down the page the first two assets you have one last Ohio asset.
The one last Ohio Discount Drug Mart asset which is the Gahanna asset and then McCormick Place which is also an Ohio asset both of those are assets that are being given back to the lender.
And we anticipate those getting done before the end of the year again subject to our special servicer having a change of heart which happens periodically.
Just jumping down to one of the last assets the Roosevelt II asset is also a give-back to the lender and we're confident that that will be done before the end of the year.
In terms of the four other assets on the page I have Harbor Square Dunmore Maxatawny and Oakhurst.
Dunmore and Oakhurst are under contract and again we're reasonably confident that it'll close in the coming weeks.
Harbor Square which is formerly the Shore Mall is being actively marketed.
We received a healthy number of bids this week and just based on the level of interest are reasonably confident we should have it under contract by the end of the year.
I would say I'm similarly confident that we won't have it closed by the end of the year but we're reasonably confident that it'll be under contract.
Oakhurst Plaza -- I’m sorry pardon me Maxatawny Marketplace which is the last asset on the list is a development project that was completed and it made sense for us to finish leasing it up in order to maximize the proceeds to us.
So that's realistically going to be an asset that gets sold at some point next year once we complete the lease-up.
In terms of the land at the bottom of the page the Harbor Square land will go with Harbor Square and the four land parcels in Pennsylvania are very very small assets that will be divested if and when we're able to find buyers for them.
Okay.
Great.
That was real helpful.
And just one last one then on Harbor Square the former Shore Mall.
Are you pleased with the reception so far and also your decision to de-mall and sort of redevelop that asset? I'm glad you asked that question.
The answer is thrilled.
This couldn't have worked out better.
Again from a strategic perspective it was a difficult decision to take this asset off market and then to put in the capital to redevelop it to de-mall it in order to bring it back to market.
But it does appear to be a decision.
Just again we've got the bids in the last day or so.
So it's still very very preliminary but at least based on the bids we've received and the level of interest.
It does look like it's been well received and we're optimistic again subject to a dramatic change in circumstances that this is an asset that I should proceed to hopefully a successful outcome for us.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good afternoon everybody.
My first question is on the lease roll in 2014 and 2015 and apologies if I missed this in the prepared remarks.
But is there a geographic concentration or is that pretty spread across the portfolio? I think it's well distributed throughout the portfolio.
I can't see that there's any one particular region that would be impacted by an excessive amount of rollovers in ’14 ‘15.
Okay.
And it looks like your cash run spreads have increased over the last few quarters to come up to 10% in the most recent quarter.
Is that a fair number moving forward into 2014 and 2015 just based on the options that you were talking about earlier with Nate? I think so.
I think a fair range is probably between the 8% to 10% mark.
I think it's a fair number.
Okay.
And then Bruce on capital allocation you've done a lot of work to improve the quality of the portfolio over time.
Can you give us a sense of where it is today how much NOI is driven by Upland Squares of the world this new asset in Fairfield County and maybe perhaps as a percentage of portfolio NOI? So it's funny you should bring that up Josh.
Obviously we're preparing for the NAREIT meetings and one of the things that we decided to share with folks and this will be posted on our website.
But I'm happy to share it with you now is how we think about our portfolio.
And we've been doing this since Phil and I started here which is looking at our portfolio statistically across a number of different statistical measures and breaking up the asset into a quartile.
And so we think about our portfolio on a quartile basis and obviously different statistics cause an asset to be in a different quartile.
So you could have an asset that's in the first quartile for being very dense.
Being a very dense market yet it might have low household incomes and might be in a lower quartile for household incomes.
So it's not necessarily that any one asset falls in the top quartile for every statistical consideration.
That said what we then do is use qualitative measures to determine what is the appropriate quartile for every asset.
So for example Upland which you brought up is a top quartile asset for Cedar and our top quartile assets who are -- I guess I would say the top half of our portfolio.
Also the first and second quartile represents about 75% of the gross asset value of our portfolio.
So the top quartile probably represents call it north of 40% of the value of our portfolio and Upland is in that bucket.
Okay.
And in terms of asset dispositions how much would you say falls into that bucket? None.
So I mean we're really following -- when we talk about capital recycling we're really not looking to reinvent the wheel.
We're really looking to target the bottom quartile assets for divestiture and rotate that capital into assets that would sit in the top quartile of our portfolio.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks very much.
You're welcome.
Yes.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I had a question.
As you've gone down your plan over the last several years of de-levering the company you started out at nine times net debt to EBITDA.
Now you're sub-8.
Sort of looking at the dispositions you have and assuming those go away are you more or less pro forma for those all being sold where you want to be as far as from a leverage perspective? That's a great question Craig.
Let me answer that in two ways.
Yes we are where we want to be right now in the sense that we had targeted getting below eight times as of this call and we're pleased that we're there.
Again with the assets from this near-term strategic plan yet to be divested we're comfortable that we're going to continue to drive down leverage pro forma for those asset sales.
From there our plan is again to continue to drive down our leverage and our hope is to consistently de-lever over time.
We're not going to look to do anything precipitous but we don't see a real benefit to our company in running the company on a highly levered basis.
And so our preference and our overall strategy as it relates to our capital structure is to continue to reduce leverage.
Got it.
But you're not sort of -- I understand you have the target over the last several years but you're certainly not saying okay we're at seven eight now.
Now we want to go to -- and our goal is six.
You're just managing it prudently correct? Exactly.
We do not have some type of a precipitous plan to do some massive equity raise in order to just pay down our line or something like that.
Our plan is again as part of a systematic and disciplined plan that includes a whole slew of measures that are intended to improve this company.
We'll be doing things that cause leverage to go down.
Great.
And I appreciated the color on the leasing as it rolls over the next three years and the amount that don't have embedded options.
But kind of what is your expectation for those that do have options as far as renewals and how does that sort of fit in line with historic norms? I think we would expect that it would be somewhere in the mid-single-digit range.
Say you'd call it 5% to 8% would be fair.
That do not renew you're saying? We thought you were asking about the cash renewal spread sorry.
Right right.
Okay.
You're talking about that percentage that just would not actually renew.
Typically I'd say historically we've been in the 80%.
Let's call it 85% to 88% range for retaining tenants.
So expect a 12% to 15% non-renewal.
Right.
That seems about right kind of with norms.
Okay.
Great.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks Craig.
Operator it sounds like Nate is not available.
I had it on mute.
Sorry about that.
No problem Nate.
A few quick questions.
Nancy as you look ahead to 2014 with the 900 000 square feet maybe can you give us a little bit of sense of what your occupancy expectations are in terms of lease-up of some of the vacancy as well as we look ahead to 2014? I'd say to be conservative we’d probably expect to see it grow by 100 basis points.
We look today with what we have to be occupied even moving forward in the fourth quarter of 2013 probably about 50 basis points just there and then growing conservatively again maybe another 50 to 75 basis points as we get into 2014.
All right.
Thanks.
And then Mike maybe you can give us a little bit of sense of where pricing has gone in some of your core markets especially maybe in some of the Pennsylvania markets that where you guys have some critical mass? Yes.
Absolutely.
Quality product is going at lower cap rates.
It continues to compress and we expect that to continue in the near future.
So if you were to put some numbers behind core product in a Lancaster and a Harrisburg what would we expect to see today? It would be -- it really varies on the anchor.
It's a tough question.
But yes you own 6 caps on quality product even in those markets.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you for joining us this evening.
We will see you all next week at the NAREIT Conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Greetings and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Cedar Realty Trust Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time all audience lines have been placed on mute.
We will conduct a question and answer session following the formal presentation.
I will now turn the call over to Jennifer Bitterman Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Analytics.
Please proceed.
Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Head of Leasing.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical maybe deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the Company’s most recent Form 10-K and other periodic filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of this call February 25 2014 and the company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar’s earnings press release posted on its website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Thanks Jennifer and thank you all for joining us this evening on Cedar’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
On this call we will review our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results as well as our expectations for 2014.
I will also spend a few minutes on our long-term strategic plan for Cedar and how it is being implemented.
I will conclude with the comments about our longest serving employee who has recently told that she is planning on retiring.
Before jumping in I would like to acknowledge my senior management team colleagues who are with me on this call namely Phil Mays Brenda Walker Nancy Mozzachio Mike Winters Charles Burkert and Stuart Widowski as well as the balance of team Cedar who have embraced the mantra of everyday excellence in their efforts on behalf of the company.
As a shareholder myself I want to thank you all for all you do on my behalf and on behalf of the other shareholders of Cedar.
The fourth quarter was another solid quarter for the company.
We generated $0.13 a share of operating FFO a penny better than last year’s fourth quarter and consistent with our strategy of steadily growing the company’s earnings while continuing to focus on improving our portfolio and strengthening our balance sheet.
Same-center net operating income or NOI growth was particularly solid at nearly 3% for the quarter as were cash basis lease spreads at 7.1%.
2013 full year results were equally solid.
We had $0.50 per share of operating FFO consistent with the revised guidance we put out in November.
Same-store NOI growth of 1.8% and 9.4% cash basis lease spreads were squarely what we were expecting.
Our occupancy and rents continue to slowly improve.
We are carefully managing the wave of lease expirations ensuring we maximize this towards a significant earnings growth in the coming years.
Throughout 2013 we were struck by the volatility and uncertainty in both the debt and equity markets as a result of the projected changes in monetary policy and FED leadership.
In light of this uncertainty we had decided to lock down our capital needs for 2014 early even if it came at the expense of modest potential dilution.
Accordingly within the first few weeks of the year we completed a $41 million overnight equity offering and closed on $150 million in term loans.
Phil will provide additional detail on these financings.
However I want to just take a moment and explain the underlying strategic rationale behind these financings.
First we felt that pre-funding nearly all of our 2014 capital needs considering all the uncertainty in the capital markets appear to us as prudent from a risk management perspective.
Second by continuing to focus on balance sheet flexibility unencumbered NOI and ever lower leverage which pro forma for the equity offering is now at 7.5 times we are continuing to march towards having a broader array of capital raising alternatives in our arsenal.
I would be remised if I do not acknowledge that in executing our recent equity offering at a net share price of $6 per share we sold our equity at a discount to our net asset value or NAV.
When we think about our primary goal at Cedar it is to create value on a per share basis which in the simplest terms means keenly focusing on increasing our NAV per share.
Accordingly the decision to dilute our NAV by roughly 1% to maintain our improved balance sheet health in the phase of the prevailing uncertainties I just mentioned was done after considerable reflection.
Although I cannot promise you we will never again sell equity at a discount to our NAV I can assure you that we are very mindful of the intrinsic value of our real estate when utilizing our public capital.
In executing our long-term strategic plan our focus is on growing our NAV per share.
Our long-term strategic plan consists of focusing on five elements.
First concentrating on grocery anchored centers between DC and Boston.
Second aggressive operations in leasing to maximize cash flow while minimizing capital spend.
Third redevelopments at our existing centers in a manner that drives attractive spreads relative to our cost of capital.
Fourth capital recycling in order to improve our average asset quality and fifth conservative balance sheet management in order to maximize our financial flexibility.
There are a number of specific examples of measures that are in further with our long-term strategic plan that we had either recently taken or are currently executing.
As many of you are aware in the fourth quarter we completed our first acquisition the Big Y Shopping Center Fairfield County Connecticut.
This acquisition is a perfect example of a high-quality grocery anchored shopping center between Washington DC and Boston and is a terrific complement to our existing portfolio.
In terms of operations and leasing as Nancy will discuss in a moment in her remarks we have a unique opportunity to re-lease over one-third of our portfolio square footage in the coming three years.
We anticipate achieving significant positive cash spreads on these transactions with a minimal capital spend if at all.
Execution of this opportunity is already underway and you can see from the leasing results we have discussed over the past few quarters.
Two redevelopments currently underway include our projects at Colonial Commons in Harrisburg Pennsylvania and Kempsville Crossing in Virginia Beach Virginia.
As we have previously discussed at Colonial Commons we are replacing a former dark movie theater with a new building to house Old Navy and Ulta.
Similarly at Kempsville Crossing we are replacing a former dark farm fresh supermarket with a Wal-Mart neighborhood market.
The second such Wal-Mart deal we have done as a dark anchor replacement.
These projects will be completed this year and we anticipate both projects delivering attractive double-digit unlevered internal rates of return.
Although I can’t go into too much detail at this time we are actively pursuing other redevelopment opportunities within our portfolio that are substantially larger than these two projects.
We plan to discuss them when they ripen.
On the capital recycling front we are currently marketing for sale three of our Western Pennsylvania assets the proceeds from these divestitures have been earmarked for the long-term financing at our recent Fairfield County acquisition.
In addition we are contemplating the divestiture of several additional lower quartile assets that will ultimately fund additional acquisitions then intensify our DC to Boston footprint and improve our average asset quality.
In mentioning asset quartile I should note that in connection with the NAREIT meetings last November we introduced for the first time a fairly detailed slide that disclosed how we rank our shopping centers.
The presentation is available on our website.
Internally we look at each of our assets by ranking them into quartiles based on a number of different specifics such as average base rents demographics NOI growth and NOI contribution among other factors.
In the presentation we summarized this portfolio ranking.
Notably the top two quartiles of our portfolio which represent half of our assets by number contribute 70% of our NOI and represent arguably 80% to 85% of our gross asset value.
In recycling capital our strategies to acquire assets that will be in the top quartile of our portfolio and dispose of assets that are in the bottom two quartiles.
Over time we will continue to share with you our portfolio stratification and the related statistics that contribute to those rankings.
Today the ranking information is instructed and thinking about the relatively high-quality of the most relevant assets in our portfolio and furthermore it should help in arriving at an appropriate cap rate for calculating our NAV.
Moving from capital recycling to capital structure in terms of balance sheet over the past couple of months we have moved from just focusing on delevering to asset sales to additional enhancements that give us even greater flexibility.
Specifically we executed the financings I mentioned earlier that has positioned us well for effecting our long-term strategic plan over the coming quarters and years.
As we move forward we have to use these improvements as a springboard to accessing other capital markets.
Before handing the call to Nancy for an update on our leasing progress I wanted to discuss our G&amp;A in the fourth quarter of 2013 and what triggered a fairly meaningful one-time non-recurring increase from the lower run rate level we have recently achieved.
Notably it arose from the decision by Brenda Walker to retire as Chief Operating Officer of Cedar in the coming months which caused us to take certain charges related to what was previously deferred compensation.
Brenda has been with Cedar and its predecessors for 30 years.
She is our longest serving employee.
During her remarkable tenure she has done and continues to do literally whatever needs to be done at Cedar from our biggest financings and strategic transactions to the mundane details at making sure our office is operating efficiently.
Even after 30 years here Brenda is one of the first people in the office every morning and one of the last to leave in the evening.
She is a consummate professional and colleague and abides all the qualities of integrity and character that one see in great leaders and professionals.
I should mention that Brenda is the first person in her family to had graduated from college which makes her climb to be the Chief Operating Officer of a New York Stock Exchange listed company that much more remarkable and a real testament to her drive and work ethics.
Although I am sad to contemplate light at Cedar without Brenda she has not surprisingly agreed to stay on until at least the end of 2014 during which time she will have no doubt continue to be the first one in and the last one out every day.
With that I give you Nancy.
Thanks so much Bruce.
Opportunistic one word that describes the current leasing environment and Cedar’s unique leasing position as we enter 2014.
With almost one-third of our leases rolling over the next three years we have carefully studied and are addressing all of our upcoming lease expirations.
In some instances we are strategically allowing tenants to expire in favor of exciting re-tenanting opportunities and in other instances we are upwardly adjusting below market rent.
At the onset of the fourth quarter of 2013 notably 65% of 2014 expiring tenants maintained exercisable options but nearly 35% are true negotiated renewal opportunities.
Of the 912 000 square feet that we were expected to expire in 2014 approximately 30% of the total square footage to be renewed has already been leased.
And over one-half of these completed transactions reflects new term renewals not exercisable options.
We anticipate renewals to be completed as we have guided to in the past at on average 8% positive spreads from current rent with no anticipated capital spend.
We have identified through portfolio-wide review specific tenant sectors that we consider low growth and view as out of favor and have begun to slowly replace these expiring phases with new high quality tenants in growth sectors such as the health and fitness category fast casual restaurants and dollar stores.
Our assets also have characteristics that appeal to discount retailers who have announced plans for aggressive expansion and would make great new junior anchors to complement the tenant mix at many of our centers.
As a result Cedar stands to recognize gains in both anchor and small shop occupancy.
Throughout 2013 we continue to identify possible re-tenanting redevelopment and pad expansion opportunities to drive NOI growth and bolster the strength of our tenant rosters.
A fine example of this laid out in 2013 at our Colonial Commons asset in Harrisburg Pennsylvania.
As Bruce discussed we demolished an old movie theater and built and delivered retail spaces for Ulta and Old Navy.
After demolishing the theater a once-obscured single tenant retail building emerged as a viable pad opportunity.
We did not renew this tenant in 2013 and are now poised to add a high quality fast casual restaurant to this location.
In addition to increased customer traffic the deal will yield substantial gains of over 100% from the former tenant per square foot rent.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we completed another dark anchor replacement via another Wal-Mart neighborhood market lease this time at Kempsville Crossing in Virginia Beach.
We are under construction with pad preparation and Wal-Mart will construct their building with an opening slated for the latter part of 2014.
As part of our disciplined approach to capital allocation we carefully monitor the undermarket leases at Kempsville and preparation of the announcement of our dark anchor replacement.
As a result we expect most inline space and one out parcel to be released at market rate of roughly 50% above expiring leases.
We are pursuing additional opportunities as part of our dark anchor replacement program specifically we are making progress in lease negotiations to replace a dark former Shaws in one of our New England assets while also negotiating an LOI with a quality grocer to occupy a dark shopper food warehouse in our Metro Square asset in densely populated Owensville Maryland.
The latter will allow us to retain and lease a highly visible end cap suitable for a mid-sized junior anchor.
Lastly I would like to address our leasing highlights for 2013.
For the fourth quarter we leased 90 800 square feet and 251 000 square feet to round out the year.
This quarter we saw leasing volume to rise meaningfully above the third quarter and approximately 10% year-over-year.
Occupancy rose 60 basis points over the third quarter and 70 basis points year-over-year and lease rates rose 80 basis points over quarter three and 90 basis points year-over-year.
Our large shop leased rate is now 98% with small shop leased rate approaching 85%.
I would note that our total comp leases at $9.11 per square foot during the quarter were lower than our usual run rate.
This is driven by the contractual renewal of a significantly below market Kmart which had no rent bump in its renewal option.
Excluding this lease our total comp leases would have reflected $12.07 per square foot in new rent and a 7.9% cash basis increase over prior rent which is in line with prior quarters.
Please keep in mind we have another Kmart with a similar rent structure in our portfolio that will likely renew in the coming months that may cause the noise in our leasing results.
Additionally our new lease spreads were lower than average at positive 4.7%.
This is on a very low volume on a square foot basis as we had several new leases during the quarter that were non-comp most notably the Wal-Mart at Kempsville Crossing and a new Michael's deal as part of our Brickyard redevelopment.
I would guide you to our annual positive cash spread for 2013 of 18% for new leases and 8% from renewals as a good run rate going forward for 2014.
I am truly proud of what our team accomplished in 2013 and optimistic about Cedar's leasing and renewal prospects in 2013.
With that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy.
And good evening everyone.
2013 was a solid year for Cedar as we continue to grow operating FFO per share while at the same time improving the quality of our portfolio and balance sheet.
On this call I will highlight our 2013 earnings recent capital markets activity and our initial 2014 guidance.
Beginning with earnings operating FFO was $0.13 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $0.12 for the same period last year.
For the full year 2013 operating FFO was $0.50 per diluted share consistent with the full year 2012.
However please note that 2012 included $3.4 million or $0.05 per share of lease termination-related income.
Additionally the fourth quarter and full year of 2013 had a non-recurring drag on G&amp;A of about $0.5 million.
As Bruce noted this was driven by the acceleration of compensation expense associated with Brenda as she nears retirement.
Taken in context we are pleased with our 2013 earnings.
Moving to property results.
Same-property NOI increased 2.9% for the quarter and 1.8% for the full year.
The fourth quarter was favorably impacted by retenanting the dark anchor at Oakland Commons.
Excluding this retenanting impact same-property NOI increased 1.8% for the quarter and 1.9% for the full year.
Turning to our balance sheet and recent capital markets activity.
We completed a $41 million common stock offering less than two weeks after the end of 2013 after taking these proceeds and discounts our adjusted net debt-to-EBITDA at 7.5 times.
As the new management team in 2011 we committed to decreasing net debt-to-EBIDTA and we have consistently done so.
We have gone from an excess of nine times in 2011 to 8.4 times at the end of 2012 7.9 times at the end of 2013 and 7.5 times upon the completion of this equity offering.
Additionally after this offering we have more than adequate liquidity with about $150 million available on our revolving facility.
Even more recently we closed this month on a $150 million of unsecured term loan giving the excess bank demand when we completed our unsecured revolving facility in August alone with the uncertain interest rate environment we thought it was prudent to pre-fund our 2014 debt maturities.
The unsecured notes consist of a five-year $75 million term loan initially priced at LIBOR plus 175 basis points and a seven year $75 million term loan initially priced at LIBOR plus 200 basis points.
Further by obtaining a delayed draw feature and entering into forward LIBOR swap agreements that begin July 1 2014 we obtained flexibility to better match our 2014 maturities and thereby avoid FFO dilutions.
The effective fixed interest rate beginning July 1 2014 are 3.37% for the five year term loan and 4.27% for the seven year term loan.
As an added benefit we were able to amend our existing $50 million term loan that matures in August 2018 and decrease the interest rate by 20 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points thus matching the pricing of our new five-year term loan.
One last note on this matter.
From paying off our mortgage maturities in 2014 with the proceeds from these new unsecured notes we will have unencumbered about 50% of our property NOI it’s a vast improvement from what was essentially a fully encumbered portfolio just two years ago.
Finally guidance.
We are establishing 2014 operating FFO guidance at $0.51 to $0.54 per diluted share.
The key assumptions underlying this guidance are as follows; same-property NOI growth of 1% to 2%.
An increase in occupancy of 50 to 100 basis points acquisitions of approximately $100 million and dispositions of approximately $100 million.
Notably it’s about $0.03 per share of dilution from this capital recycling as well as the downtime associated with reckoning the dark anchor at Kempsville Crossing.
However we believe that the long-term benefits and value that will result from rotating in the higher quality assets and anchored tenants is worth the near-term FFO dilution related to these activities.
With respect to same-property NOI growth same-property NOI growth in the last two years was consistent at almost 2%.
We are establishing a range of 1% to 2% for 2014 but frankly we will be disappointed if it is not again be the high-end of this range.
In closing please keep in mind that if we recycle capital our debt-to-EBITDA may bounce up and down as we further upgrade the quality of our portfolio.
However we have diligently worked to improve our balance sheet and it’s our intention to preserve this progress and continue to improve that going forward through proactive management similar to our recent capital market transactions.
And with that I’ll open the call to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hi Todd.
Hi the first question is speaking about the same-store NOI growth Phil I hear your comments about that you’d be disappointed if it were to fall toward the lower end of the range.
But I am just wondering with 50 to 100 basis points of occupancy pick up in annual rent bumps you did almost 9% leasing spreads on the comp leasing done in 2013 that should flow through slightly higher recovery ratio I guess what’s the offset? Why wouldn’t that be more like a 2% to 3% range out of the gate from the start here? Hey Todd so the 50 to 100 basis point is on the whole portfolio.
A lot of that will be captured in redevelopment and you won't see in same-store growth.
So – and the same-store growth we are having we anticipate being latter in the year of occupancy pick up mostly in the fourth quarter a little bit in the third quarter.
So that won't be a huge contribution from the occupancy gain for same-store.
Okay and then in terms of the leases that you are signing today it sounds like the environment is pretty favorable are you able to get better annual rent growth escalators on the leases that you are signing today versus what’s in place?  Hi Todd it’s Nancy.
Yes I would answer that we are able to get annual rent growth in many instances not all instances makes a favorable environment as I mentioned in the remarks your property type helps attract discounters and discounters are growing quite rapidly today and because there is lack of new phase it also causes us to go back and structure deals or maybe a little bit more favorably to us gaining with annual growth bumps.
Okay are those annual escalators that you are getting today is that sort of spread across or are you able to get those in some of the anchor leases that you’ve signed recently as well or is it mostly still just the small shops?  No I would say we have I mean it’s not as common as the small shops category.
But we certainly have gotten it.
Okay and then just last question maybe for Bruce or Phil I guess just in terms of the equity offering Bruce I appreciate your comments about the prudent decision to issue equity given some of the uncertainty and volatility in the markets.
But I was just wondering maybe if you could expand on that decision a bit specifically the amount that was raised why not issue a little bit more and take the opportunity delever a bit further and sort of load up the balance sheet now that you are beginning to invest? It really is quite simply the balancing of different considerations.
We are really reluctant to dilute ourselves from an NAV perspective and so we really try to limit it to the amount that we thought we need it in order to make sure that between the term loan that we knew was likely to close and the proceeds from this equity offering plus the free cash flow that we just generated off of our business that we would have sufficient capital to address the capital requirements for 2014.
So it was really that simple.
And to the extent that I guess we needed to raise equity later in the year and not that we contemplate that but we would just do another small equity offering.
I think the other thing that I would mention is that from an execution perspective again since we were selling equity at a discounted NAV one of the things we were very focused on was minimizing the discounts between our closing share price and our offer price and we thought that we would be able to optimize that by limiting the number of shares to the greatest extent possible and I think that was that borne out by the relatively tight discount we were able to achieve.
Okay so there is no additional capital-raising activity either new equity or debt embedded in guidance? No.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
First of all I’d say congratulations to Brenda Walker on her upcoming retirement.
It comes well deserved.
Thank you Craig.
I appreciate that.
Okay.
And looking at the acquisitions and dispositions it seem like they are on a volume basis neutral could you provide us what you think might be the differential in cap rates versus the acquisitions and dispositions? Well I guess I would answer that in two ways.
One is in terms – we have specific assets that we are marketing.
These are really among our weaker assets and the cap rate differential between the residual portfolios that we plan on holding on to in these particular assets is probably north of 200 basis points or call it 250 basis points just to keep the number somewhat round.
As we start cutting a little bit deeper into our portfolio going forward I would expect that spread to narrow and probably be less than 200 probably falling between 150 and 200 basis points but the particular assets we are selling right now are north of 200 basis points.
Thanks.
And then on the NOI guidance of 1% to 2% does that include the Wal-Mart at the Kempsville Crossing? No Craig the Wal-Mart is at the front of a redevelopment where the old space is getting completely taken down a new store is being built it’s a little bit of additional small shops being added and we’ve been keeping a lot of small shop adjacent it on short-term leases that we expect to roll it to make bumps.
So that is moved over to redevelopment.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi good afternoon Nate.
Thanks.
Like to echo the comments about Brenda as well.
It is hard to believe it’s been 11 years since you guys came public.
Just wanted to ask about first on the status of the Shore Mall.
Okay on the Shore Mall Nate it’s an incredibly timely question we literally – Mike Winter is not on this call right now.
He is in another conference room in office literally closing the Shore Mall right now and so I would say by the end of the day we will be – the Shore Mall will no longer be part of the Cedar portfolio and that will really represent truly the final step in concluding the near-term strategic plan that we talked about two years ago.
And I really would commend Mike and the teams for getting this deal over the finish line the pricing on it is incredibly tight when you think about it on a 2013 cap rate basis it represents a four cap and in terms of the impact on our leverage.
Phil had mentioned that pro forma to the equity offering we go down to about 7.5 times pro forma for the closing of the Shore Mall we will be below 7.3 times.
And so this is again another constructive step in advancing the cause of just continuing to improve our balance sheet.
All right.
Can you talk about the buyer and what type of financing they got? Yes I wouldn’t get into too much detail on the buyer.
The buyer is a relatively local operator somebody who acquires assets in this region and they received bank financing as we understand it in order to close the transaction.
All right.
Thank you and then I guess on the acquisition side can you give a little bit of an update on where things stand in terms of looking at today leases-wise and perhaps are you looking mostly one-offs or any small portfolio speculating? So we are – right now we have a pretty active acquisition pipeline that we are working on.
I’ll give you the characteristics of all the centers we are looking at are centers as I had mentioned in my prepared remarks centers that would fir squarely in the top quartile.
Our existing portfolio – now the one thing I would say schematically with respect to all of our acquisitions is that we are very focused on doing our acquisitions one after at a time since we think that there is just a benefit from a diligence perspective in terms of unearthing issues with the assets and being able to address those issues in a way that minimizes some of the inevitable slippage that happens when you acquire an asset we haven’t done before.
And so we have found that that is something that serves our shareholders well in terms of doing things on a one-off basis.
And the only other thing that would say just schematically is that we are continuing to focus on the DC to Boston footprint and on grocery anchored centers.
Although the only thing that I would say is that the assets we are looking at some of them I would say fall within the more expansive definition of grocery that we’ve talked about in the past and include discount stores or supercenters or what have you.
So again those are the types of deals that we are looking at and I am optimistic that over the coming months we will have one or two deals to be able to talk to you about that again represent portfolio upgrades and are consistent with the strategy we’ve been articulating all along.
Okay and then just one going back to Brenda’s departure – is there any plans to bring in a CEO or is it’s something that you are considering looking (inaudible) to bring in from inside or outside? The answer to that is yes.
We are looking both inside and outside and the nice thing about Brenda being as gracious as she always is and giving us this much notice is that we have time to reflect on it and think about it and that’s exactly what we are going to do and again there is no bullet to our head and there is no gun to our head – pardon me – and we will just do things in the ordinary course and in a way that optimizes the executive offices of the company.
All right thank you so much.
Thank you so much Nate.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Bruce Schanzer for closing.
Thank you sir.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for joining us this evening.
We appreciate your continued attention and support.
I expect the coming quarters will continue to be exciting for all of us at Cedar and hopefully rewarding for all of our shareholders.
Have a good night.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Cedar Realty Trust Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time all audience lines have been placed on mute.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session following the formal presentation.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jennifer Bitterman Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Analytics.
Please proceed.
Good evening and thank you for joining us for the first quarter 2014 Cedar Realty Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today’s call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer; Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Head of Leasing.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical maybe deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the Company’s most recent Form 10-K and other periodic filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of this call May 6 2014 and the Company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar’s earnings press release posted on its website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Thanks Jennifer and thank you all for joining us this evening on Cedar’s first quarter 2014 earnings call.
On this call we will review our first quarter results and I’ll also spend a few minutes on the measures we’re taking to implement our long-term strategic plan.
Before jumping in I’d like to acknowledge my colleagues who are with me on this call namely Phil Mays Brenda Walker Nancy Mozzachio Mike Winters and Charles Burkert.
I’d also like to introduce and welcome the newest member of our senior management team Adina Storch our new General Counsel who replace Stuart Widowski at the end of the quarter.
After 18 years with Cedar Stuart has left us to pursue other opportunities and we wish him well.
Adina joins us from a major New York law firm where she was a partner.
In addition to her collegiality and warmth which makes her a terrific addition to the senior management team.
Adina had extraordinary professional credentials as evidenced by her repeatedly being recognized by various publications as one of the top lawyers in New York City.
I would be remiss if I do not as always give a heart felt acknowledgement and thank you to the balance of team Cedar for their commitment to everyday excellence and tireless efforts on behalf of the Company.
The big news this quarter was our acquisition of Quartermaster Plaza from Forest City for $92.3 million.
The largest single asset transaction Cedar has ever completed.
The Quartermaster acquisition is exciting for a number of reasons.
First it was a truly off market acquisition of a high quality urban infill grocery-anchored shopping center at a reasonable price.
Second it allowed us to further intensify our Philadelphia footprint in a very strategic manner as this asset is directly across the street from our South Philadelphia shopping center.
With this acquisition we now own 22% of the South Philadelphia retail submarket and furthermore now own more square footage in the City of Philadelphia than any other public shopping center REIT.
This particular area of Philadelphia is experiencing a resurgence with significant institutional capital investment and ongoing gentrification.
We expect that our shareholders will be the beneficiaries of this dynamics over the coming years.
Third this acquisition also advances the objective of systematically improving our portfolio by acquiring higher quality grocery-anchored shopping center assets in our DC to Boston footprint while divesting our lower quality centers to fund the acquisitions.
Notably with the addition of Quartermaster the top quartile of our portfolio now contributes over 40% of our net operating income or NOI has extraordinary demographic characteristics with over 2 100 households per square mile and over 146 000 people within three miles when combined the top half of our portfolio has over 1 700 households per square mile and roughly 118 000 people within three miles.
Furthermore the top half of our portfolio contributes roughly three quarters of our NOI or approximately 80% of our asset value.
The first quarter continued our progress of transitioning Cedar into a leading shopping center refocused on grocery-anchored shopping centers between Washington DC and Boston.
We achieved operating funds from operations or operating FFO of $0.13 per share and had solid same-store NOI growth of 2.7% relative to the first quarter of 2013.
As Nancy and Phil will discuss in their comments this performance was the result of continued strong asset management and operating performance.
Especially gratifying is that this result came in the phase of a historically high snowfall for which we’ve fixed price snow removal contract and recovery rates that largely insulated us from the economic effects though I will acknowledge they do not insulate us from the frustrations and indignities of digging at our cars and driveways every two days.
Early in the first quarter we executed an equity and debt financing that I discussed in detail on our fourth quarter call in February.
In addition during the first quarter we close on the Shore Mall sale representing the combination of the plan announced in November of 2011 to divest $150 million in assets in order to focus the company on our grocery-anchored shopping center portfolio and to reduce the leverage below eight times.
With the closing of the Shore Mall we had in fact realized proceeds of over $170 million and reduced leverage to 7.3 times.
The Quartermaster acquisition caused a temporary increase in our leverage to 7.9 times as you can see in our first quarter supplemental.
Note that with the assets currently teed up for sale that’s part of our capital recycling plan we anticipate once again reducing leverage.
The ability to quickly transform our Company and its shopping center portfolio is one of the benefits of being a REIT of our size as we can be nimble and responsive to market dynamics and opportunities.
Hopefully as we execute on our capital recycling efforts the ongoing demographic improvements within our portfolio will come be recognized and appreciated by the capital markets.
As Nancy will discuss we continue to have success in addressing the leasing opportunity presented by having one-third of our portfolio rolling in the coming three years.
This quarter we once again had strong leasing volumes and spread completing 40 leases for 328 000 square feet.
Notably comparable leases had cash basis lease of 9.2% consistent with the guidance we’ve previously given.
On the redevelopment front we’re pursuing a number of different opportunities.
However they don’t generally lend themselves to quarterly updates until they write them.
One project that we commenced during the quarter is construction of the new Walmart Neighborhood Market at Kempsville Crossing.
We expect to have that project completed by the end of the year and as previously disclosed anticipate achieving a double-digit unlevered internal rate of return.
In conclusion we continue to make progress on all facets of our long-term strategic plan from leasing to value add investing to capital recycling to balance sheet flexibility and leverage.
We are keenly focused on building shareholder value and credibility on a foundation of clear communication with the street as well as rigorous analysis and capital discipline.
With that I give you Nancy Mozzachio to discuss our leasing results.
Thanks so much Bruce.
Leasing results for the quarter of 2014 reflects a solid performance of our asset base.
Our portfolio lease rate is now 93.5% and small shop lease rate is up to 84%.
We are continuing to execute on our plan to maximize asset value through lease up and in certain cases purposeful retenanting in our centers.
We are also carefully addressing our opportunities to pursue higher market rent as one-third of our gross leasable area [ph] [rolled] in 2014 2015 and 2016.
As discussed on prior calls the leasing team spends a considerable amount of time analyzing retail sectors represented within our portfolio that are rightful retenanting.
Lease spaces are prime for our better use and higher rent.
There are several creditworthy discounters and small format (indiscernible) replacing tenants in categories viewed as out of favor in many of our assets.
More specifically we’ve achieved significant progress on this front at Colonial Commons where Ulta and Old Navy opened during the first quarter.
We also signed a lease with Noodles a fast casual restaurant to occupy a former freestanding [ph] [fire] building and (indiscernible) undertake a sizable expansion and relocation in the center.
These retenanting activities represent a 12% gain over prior rent.
And more importantly this combination of high credit quality commitments at Colonial Commons is a catalyst to attract additional resell interest at the assets and further enhance its value.
I would also like to provide an update on our Kempsville Crossing asset in Virginia Beach.
The new Wal-Mart neighborhood market is current undergoing vertical construction and we anticipate the opening in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We are in discussions with several high-quality small shop tenants to replace existing month-to-month shop base and will report on their progress in the coming quarters.
Remember this shop base was kept on short-term leases to increase the overall return of the project which is projected in the mid-teens.
Now to renewals.
We ended the quarter with 312 000 square feet of completed transaction achieving equally 6% cash spreads with no capital spent.
Looking back as of December 31st 2012 approximately 1.4 million square feet of space was set to expire in 2014 and just over 65% of this square footage represents tenants with contractual option.
At the end of the first quarter 2014 approximately 70% of these options were exercised with initial cash spreads of 9.7%.
As for expiring TLA with no contractual options we have been successful in moving below market leases to higher post recession market rent with meaningful annual increases to drive future NOI growth.
Notably negotiated renewal’s within the same period reflects 8% cash spreads consistent with prior guidance.
As we further progressed in 2014 we continue our laser focus and proactive approach to drive solid rent spreads on expiring TLA.
We continue to maximize asset value through lease-up and proactive re-tenanting on intensively exploring asset by asset redevelopment and tenant expansion opportunity.
With that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy.
On this call I will discuss our first quarter operating results and provide updates on our balance sheet and 2014 guidance.
Starting with operating results.
Operating FFO was $10.3 million or $0.13 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $8.7 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
Same-property NOI increased 2.7% for the quarter.
This growth did include a favorable impact from re-leasing the dark anchor at Oakland Commons.
Excluding this favorable impact same-property NOI increased 1.6%.
As Bruce noted no removal cost had little impact on our earnings for the quarter.
Our leases provide a high recovery rate plus no removal cost and our property operations team has implemented a significant number a fixed price no removal contract.
In fact the historically high snowfall in this quarter cost less than $100 000 as an incremental expense leakage compared to the first quarter of last year.
However what is notable is that due to the relative size of our same-property NOI pool for a single quarter our same-property NOI growth would have been about 40 basis points higher if not for this increased snowfall.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with over $130 million available under our revolving credit facility and net debt to EBITDA at 7.9 times after reflecting the recent acquisition of Quartermaster Plaza.
As we progress with our capital recycling program and begin closing the dispositions of lower quartile assets our temporarily elevated net debt to EBITDA will begin to decline.
Last quarter I discussed $150 million of unsecured term loans we closed in February.
As a reminder these unsecured term loans consist of $75 million five year term loan and $75 million seven year term loan for which the variable interest rates have been slopped beginning July 1st 2014 to effective fixed rates of 3.37% and 4.27% respectively.
We fully borrowed the five year term loan at closing and anticipate the seven year -- borrowing the seven year term loan on or slightly before July 1st.
After using the proceeds from these unsecured term loans to repay our 2014 mortgage maturities of which we have approximately $100 million remaining we will them encumbered about 60% of our property NOI.
And lastly guidance.
We are reaffirming our 2014 operating FFO guidance of $0.51 to $0.54 per diluted share.
This guidance range is based on the same underlying assumptions provided on our fourth quarter 2013 call.
The acquisition at Quartermaster Plaza at just over $92 million effectively meets the acquisition target we provided.
This does not mean that we will not acquire any additional assets during 2014 but at this time no additional acquisitions are included in our guidance.
Also as discussed earlier with the additional dispositions as we work towards our $100 million of targeted dispositions for 2014 thereby reducing our net debt to EBITDA.
And with that I’ll open the call to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon this is actually Grant Keeney on for Todd.
Hi Grant.
Bruce you touched on in your opening remarks but I was just curious as to whether [ph] [piercing] a higher volume of products that were brought to you by brokers or even like reverse enquiries after acquiring some sizable assets.
The answer is yes we definitely are seeing a very high degree of products.
I would characterize our transaction activity more broadly is that we look at three to four assets a week and will probably acquire three to maybe five assets in a year.
So we are very selective with what we’re looking at we do see a fair amount of product most of what -- our aspirational acquisition is actually something that is not being brought to us by a broker though and I think that’s something we’re highlighting.
So for example the Quartermaster transaction was completely off-market.
The assets that we acquired in (indiscernible) while it was a broker transaction was brought to just a very small group of people and those are really the transactions that we’re really ideally going to be taking down but again we’re definitely seeing a fair amount of opportunity to invest and we’re just trying to be very selective in how we’re putting out our capital.
Okay thanks.
And then just continuing on Quartermaster that you’ve had it for a couple of months now I’m just curious just to what you guys are seeing maybe longer term just in terms of the value add opportunities of the property or the adjacent property given that you have a sizable presence now in the market if there are any synergies or any adjacent land anything like that? So the primary strategic opportunity beyond the fact that it ended up itself as a great asset is that it sits across the street from our South Philadelphia shopping center and we’re already seeing opportunities to potentially leverage the relationship between those two centers.
At Quartermaster there is approximately 100 000 square feet of expansion potential and South Philadelphia is a center that will probably benefit from some capital investments.
And so between the opportunity to expand that Quartermaster and the opportunity to invest into both Quartermaster and South Philadelphia we think that the combination of those two centers will really allow us to optimize the returns out of the capital that we’re investing into that submarket.
Okay thanks it's helpful.
And then just lastly on I guess just redevelopment in general.
I know you mentioned Kempsville but what's your company anticipating to spend just for the year on redevelopment.
I know you haven't mentioned any other properties at this time but I was just curious kind of what you are looking at this time this year and then maybe next year (indiscernible) yields are similar to Kempsville at this point.
So in the past we’ve guided people to approximately $20 million a year on average that we’re going to invest and of course that is made up of smaller investments such as what we’re doing in Kempsville which is call it in the $4 million to $5 million range as well as some larger opportunities that we’re looking at that we haven't yet discussed that are a multiple of Kempsville.
But on average I would guide you to that $20 million type level of capital investment from a value add perspective.
And we generally target a double digit un-levered IRR so we’re usually looking at about 10% un-levered IRR but sometimes we’ll do a little bit better like we’re doing in Kempsville.
Generally speaking acceptance are in very limited situations would we tolerate doing meaningfully worse but maybe we would look at something in the high single-digits if there were some overarching strategic reason to do so.
Okay thanks.
One more so if missed it I am not sure if you’ve mentioned just the cap rate on Quartermaster? We did not disclose any raw materials.
I know that Forest City described it as a 6.5% cap rate transaction in their press release.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
We’re couple of weeks away from the ICSC Spring Convention and I just wonder; what were some of your team’s objective’s that you’d like to accomplish during that week.
Well I certainly speak for one vertical.
I would ask Nancy Mozzachio or maybe Michael Winters to characterize how they’re seeing it.
But broadly speaking we’re seeing this as an opportunity to really advance a few different dialogues one is leasing in general.
Leasing in connection with some of the redevelopments that we’re pursing and then continuing to engage with some of the dialogues that we’re having with shopping center owners who are potentially almost with the idea of selling us their assets or interested in transacting in some manner or maybe Nancy you might want to touch on that and then maybe after that Mike maybe you could talk about it a little bit as well.
Hi Craig.
I can add to that a little bit.
I think our objectives are to meet with as many tenants as possible learn about new concepts.
We have limited amounts of time with each tenant.
So we spent (indiscernible) about the last six months putting together portfolio review which has taken place at tenant headquarters.
So we sort of home to add to those conversations that we’ve had over the last few months.
But really it's that focus on small shop occupancy and trying to drive that up and I think it occurs from continual and frequent conversations with tenants about their contract and hopefully we can plug a few tenants into a number of our centers.
Yes Craig it's Mike Winters speaking.
We will continue to have dialogue with certain owners that we intend on meeting at the show as well as meet some new owners we haven't done business with in the past and we hope to get deals from that.
It's pretty simple.
Okay.
Do you have meetings with any people that currently aren’t in your centers? We do definitely.
We absolutely have undertaken to making into a tenant who’ve never done business with before.
And again as I mentioned earlier I think it's important to understand and I know our retailers today is we’re bringing new concept to our minds so they know we may have done a deal with or many deals with dollar trade for example they have another concept that they rolled out in certain parts of the country that we hope to capitalize on.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have no further question in queue at this time.
Now I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us this evening.
We look forward to seeing you in the coming weeks at ICSC and then after that at NAREIT.
Have a good evening.
Good bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Cedar Realty Trust Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all audience lines have been placed on mute.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session following the formal presentation.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mr.
Jennifer Bitterman Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Analytics.
Please proceed.
Good evening and thank you for joining us for the second quarter 2014 Cedar Realty Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today’s call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer; Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Head of Leasing.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during this call that are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the Company’s most recent Form 10-K and other periodic filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of this call August 6 2014 and the Company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar’s earnings press release posted on its website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Thank you Jennifer and welcome to the second quarter earnings call of Cedar Realty Trust.
On this afternoon's call I will briefly review our progress for the quarter and year to date before having Nancy discuss our leasing results in more detail and having Phil do the same for our financial results.
In addition to Phil and Nancy I am also joined by Brenda Walker our COO Mike Winters our Head of Acquisitions; Charles Burkert our Head of Construction and Development as well as Adina Storch our General Counsel.
As always the balance of team Cedar is dialled into the call.
The accomplishments I will be discussing are very much a credit to their efforts and ongoing commitment to every day excellence.
I'm pleased with our result as the continued evidence of our steady approach to growing value with Cedar as well as our ability to deliver on our announced goals and initiatives.
We reported $0.14 of operating – funds from operations this quarter versus $0.12 a year ago.
The strong second-quarter results allowed us to raise the low end of our 2014 guidance of a penny to a revised range of $0.50 to $0.54 per share.
Our leasing results for the quarter were solid with roughly 380 000 square feet of new and renewal leasing of which 355 000 was done at an average 8.9% comparable cash lease spread.
Year-to-date we've completed over 700 000 square feet of new and renewal leasing at roughly a 9% cash lease spread.
Additionally our same-store net operating income or NOI growth was 2% for the quarter and 2.4% year to date.
Lastly our leverage at 7.7 times and trending downward is consistent with our overall balance sheet strategy of gradually reducing leverage in the ordinary course.
As we have described previously in addition to continuous balance sheet improvement our long-term strategic plan includes a focus on leasing and operations a commitment to reinvesting into certain of our high potential assets as well as intensifying our footprint and upgrading our portfolio through capital recycling.
What I would like to highlight in particular on this call is the complete portfolio transformation that is continuing to occur through this capital recycling strategy.
We’re doing this by selling our lower density assets and acquiring higher density assets while continuing to focus as always on grocery anchored centers between Washington DC and Boston.
On our last quarter call I drew back the curtain a little into how we think of our portfolio by walking you through the quartiles in which we rank all our assets.
This was done in in the context of discussing our $92.3 million Quartermaster Shopping Center acquisition a 450 000 square foot center located in the heart of the South Philadelphia retail submarket with approximately 325 000 people within a 3-mile radius.
To fund this acquisition and certain other pipeline opportunities we have sold and continue to sell assets in the bottom two quartiles of our portfolio.
It is important to note that although these bottom two quartiles constitute half of our assets by number they collectively generate roughly a quarter of our NOI and represent only about 20% of our aggregate portfolio value.
More importantly our top two quartiles which have the other half of our assets by number generate about 75% of our NOI and represent about 80% of our value.
Notably the centers in these top two quartiles have on average 120 000 people within a 3-mile radius and 1 777 households per square mile.
This population density ranks the top 80% of our portfolio third highest of all shopping center reads.
Keep in mind we’re planning on selling the bottom 20% to fund further acquisitions like those now at the top.
Year-to-date we have sold four bottom quartile assets for aggregate sales proceeds of $65.3 million.
The weighted average cap rate of the four assets sold was approximately 7.8%.
An average population density for these four centers is only 22 000 people.
Ironically at our current share price the implied cap rate of our entire portfolio is only 35 to 40 basis points below the cap rate at which these bottom quartile assets just traded notwithstanding that they were among our weaker assets.
In addition to these four assets we are exploring the divestiture of another 10 or so bottom half assets with similar average densities some of which are already listed as out for sale.
We will use these proceeds to continue funding the Quartermaster acquisition and for other investment opportunities now in the works.
Although with both acquisitions and dispositions one never knows whether a deal was done until it closes I would characterise what we had done thus far in 2014 as being very consistent with our capital recycling strategy.
Specifically we are targeting high density more infill assets for acquisition and targeting our lowest density more rural assets for divestiture.
Because of our relatively small size we can pick our spots and because of our local footprint we can identify opportunities before they come to market.
Another benefit of our relatively small size is that if we are successful in executing this strategy the resulting portfolio will leapfrog past most other REITs when it comes to population density as a measure of portfolio quality though to be fair roughly 80% of our portfolio by value already has made that jump.
We will of course continue to keep up apprised of our progress as we execute on what I expect will be a portfolio transformation that is completed in two or three years.
With that I give you Nancy to discuss our leasing results.
Thanks so much Bruce.
The leasing results this quarter reflects a steady performance in our asset base.
We are continuing to execute on our long-term plan to maximize asset value through lease up and purposeful retenanting of space in our centers.
Our portfolio lease rate is now 93.3%.
We signed 61 leases during the quarter totalling 380 000 square feet with average base rents or ABR of $13.41 cents per square foot 6% above our core portfolio ABR.
We executed 17 new leases during the quarter totalling 87 000 square feet.
This new lease pool was almost entirely comprised of service tenants including restaurants and health-related concepts in a concerted effort on our part to commit to tenants complimentary to the tenant mix of our grocery-anchored centers incapable of producing sustainable sales growth.
In terms of renewal activity in the quarter we renewed 293 000 square feet at 9% positive cash spreads with no capital expenditures.
Small shop positive cash renewal spreads were just over an 11.1% increase for the second quarter of 2014 as compared with an increase of 10.7% in the first quarter and 9.1% in the second quarter of 2013.
Overall positive renewal spreads for the quarter were consistent with guidance and it’s worth noting the second quarter of 2014 marked our 34th consecutive quarter of positive renewal spread.
While 87 000 square feet represents a significant amount of new leasing activity second quarter occupancy numbers declined slightly 40 basis points quarter over quarter.
This decline is a combination of a few events.
One the continuation of our capital recycling strategy in which we moved some additional highly occupied non-core assets into our held for sale portfolio; two the expected return of certain spaces and three allowing for strategic lease expirations in favor of retractive retenancing opportunities.
A perfect example of this strategic retenancing is reflected in the business plan for Colonial Commons.
As discussed on our prior calls we are repurposing a former freestanding autostore with Noodles a fast casual restaurant.
While the leasing team could have solely focused on finding a replacement auto concept we were willing to take some additional downtime to creatively retenant the space.
Noodles complements our tenant mix at the center and represents a significant gain over prior rents.
We are prepared to and are willing if needed to accept temporary short-term physical occupancy decline at certain centers in exchange for long-term value-add opportunities.
I would also like to provide a few update on our Kempsville Crossing redeveloping asset in Virginia Beach.
The new Wal-Mart neighborhood market construction is on schedule and on track to open in the fourth quarter of this year.
As a result of the much anticipated opening of Wal-Mart within the local market we’ve seen an uptick in our leasing activity at the center.
We signed two new leases during the second quarter at substantial increases to expiring rents.
Both tenants are expected to be open and operating by the end of the third quarter.
We also chose to renew one small shop tenant at Kempsville during the quarter at a 20% cash spread.
We are confident in our ability to continue this pace and lease the balance of the space in the center at significant cash spread which will drive our double-digit return on this redevelopment.
In closing as we entered the second half of 2014 the cadence of positive leasing and renewal momentum from the first and second quarters set the stage for continued growth in our portfolio specifically with new small shop tenants and junior anchors.
Looking ahead continued commitments from well-capitalized restaurant franchisee mom and pop service tenants discount-oriented junior anchors and new grocery concepts will likely provide the basis for steady predictable leasing and operating results for many quarters and years to come.
And with that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy and good afternoon everyone.
In addition to our portfolio improvement and leasing progress our balance sheet has also been strengthening.
As Bruce and I started about three years ago this quarter I will briefly highlight some of the balance sheet improvements that have taken place.
Since we arrived our debt to EBITDA has decreased from an excess of 9 times to 7.7 times today and 7.5 times pro forma for the disposition of assets currently held for sale.
Interest coverage has increased from 2.1 times to 3.1 times.
Fixed charge coverage has also increased from 1.2 times to 1.8 times.
And our encumbered NOI has increased from practically 0 to almost 60%.
Now these balance sheet metrics may drip up and down a little as we continue our capital recycling strategy aimed at upgrading our portfolio.
However we are committed to further strengthening our balance sheet as one of our core long-term objectives.
In fact over the next few years we’ll have the opportunity to improve our balance sheet just with the ordinary course of business.
Let me walk you through a couple of ways this will happen.
First as discussed on this previous call approximately one-third of our GLA is rolling between 2014 and 2016.
We anticipate renewing or releasing this GLA with high single-digit cash lease spread and little capital investment.
Second we currently generate about $20 million annually of free cash flow.
This free cash flow permits us to fund redevelopment opportunities or to simply repay debt.
Although these may not appear to be immediate and exciting when combined they will consistently drive incremental balance sheet improvement and organic earnings growth.
Moving to operating results.
Operating FFO was $11.2 million or $0.14 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $9 million or $0.12 for the same period last year.
Same-property NOI increased 2% for the quarter.
This growth also included a favorable impact from re-leasing the dark anchor at Oakland Commons.
Excluding this favorable impact same-property NOI would have increased 1%.
Notably the new anchor has now been paying rent for a full year and this is the last quarter same-property NOI will be impacted by this specific lease.
And lastly guidance.
With half of the year completed we are raising the low-end of our full-year 2014 operating FFO guidance to an updated range of $0.52 to $0.54 per diluted share.
This full-year guidance includes approximately $40 million of additional dispositions during the second half of the year and no additional acquisitions.
This does not mean that we will not acquire any additional assets prior to the end of the year but at this time no additional acquisitions are included in our guidance.
And with that I’ll open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question is from Todd Thomas with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
Just a couple of questions I guess on your capital recycling efforts.
First Phil I think you just mentioned what the disposition target would be for the back half of the year.
I believe I missed it.
So if you could just mention what that was again.
But then more broadly Bruce I guess that the 10 properties that you mentioned you’re teeing up for sale can you provide a range of expected gross proceeds for that entire bucket of properties and what should we expect from a timing perspective to shed all 10 of those properties essentially? Go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi Todd.
This is Phil.
So year-to-date we’ve done about $85 million of dispositions $25 million of that sure mall [ph] which really we kind of thought about it as under the old disposition program and delevering program.
So we’ve done a little over 60 year-to-date as part of recycling and what I state is we do about another 40 on the back half which will get us to about close to $100 million for the year in recycling disposition proceeds.
Todd this is Bruce just to address your other question.
So dividing up the pool of 10 into two buckets those that are actively being marketed in those that we characterize as being on deck.
So the assets that are being actively marketed totalled about $35 million that Phil touched on it gets us to the $100 million in total proceeds and then you have about an equivalent value in assets that are being teed up to be divested.
In terms of the assets that we’re actively marketing I would anticipate closing if we’re successful on what we’re doing right now closing on all of those by the end of the year and/or certainly closed to that period of time and the on-deck assets ideally we get them closed again in that same timeframe but there is a high likelihood considering the way these transactions worked that at least one or two of them slipped into next year.
Okay.
And in terms of pricing you mentioned what the average cap rate on the four properties sold during the quarter and subsequently another quarter of 7.8%.
Is that what we should be thinking about for these additional asset sales? It really varies by asset.
Some of the assets that we’re going to be selling are very low quality assets.
So you’ll talk about flirting with potentially a 10 cap but those are on assets that have very relatively little NOI.
So I would say that broadly speaking if you look at the warranted cap rate for sort of the bottom half of our portfolio that is ultimately the part of the portfolio that we’re going to be selling I would say that that’s probably the right zip code in terms of cap rate.
So if you think back to how we described the spread between what we’re selling and what we’re buying from a capital recycling perspective we’ve talked about it as being call it 150 basis points and that’s roughly what we’re seeing in terms what we’re selling versus what we’re buying and that’s how I would characterize it.
The step for selling these particular 10 assets.
Some of them are weaker assets some of them are stronger assets but across the whole capital recycling effort I would say that kind of mid-to-high 7% cap rate flirting with 8% is probably the right way to think about it.
Okay.
And then in terms of investments I know Quartermaster it sounds like -- that basically gets you to 100 million target that you set out for the year and there's nothing else in guidance.
But what's the pipeline look like today? I know you’re being selective and looking to conduct business off market are you seeing anything of interest that that could hit this year? Sure we’re seeing a whole slew of interesting assets but again I will go back to the point you made in your introductory comment which is that we’re being very selective.
The reason why we are comfortable putting $100 million of acquisitions into our guidance is that we knew that the Quartermaster deal was likely to occur.
And so we felt comfortable including that in our guidance.
With respect to prospective acquisitions again I think that you characterized it very well.
We’re focusing on off market opportunities and we have a healthy list of opportunities that we’re pursuing but we’re going to be very selective in terms of which ones we actually end up taking down.
I think I've quipped before that we look at two or three deals a year – I mean I am sorry we look at two or three deals a week and we aspire to do two or three deals a year.
So I think that that's probably going to be consistent with -- certainly looking at two or three deals a week is certainly consistent with what Mike and his team and I have been doing.
But I would say it's in the similar vein we’ll probably end up doing two or three deals this year including Quartermaster.
Just one or two quick ones for Phil.
I am looking at Page 12 in the supplement of that schedule can you just give us an update on the mortgage for Fieldstone marketplace that came due last month of 6% and also what we should expect with regard to the remaining 2014 maturities? And then also is there opportunity to pull forward any of the other debt maturing in sort of the out-years there? Yeah sure Todd.
So if you recall we did two term loans early in the year that totaled $150 million and that was basically what our maturities are mortgage maturities for all of ’14.
So we’ve already pulled down the whole 150 we paid off call it 120 or so in mortgages already and we took the extra 30 and reduced our line.
So now we have that 30 availability on our line so that this remainder of 30 million or so comes due over the rest of the year that will just roll the line.
So if you remember we just went ahead and refinanced all of the ‘14 maturities early this year.
As far as ’15 there is not an opportunity to move many of those forward at all maybe a month or two.
But most of them do not allow for prepayment and early payment.
And then just lastly -- just a clarification on Page 23m why are certain properties held for sale or conveyance? Why are some included in results from continuing ops while Huntington Plaza and Maxatawny are in disc ops? Totally just for GAAP reasons right? So they changed the rule and something negative had been pushing for for a while as they look when you sell a property that’s not a whole line of business REITs are continually buying and selling and we shouldn’t have to do all this brain damage around discontinued ops.
They were successful in our lobbying effort accounting standard related to disc ops got amended such that selling individual property is no longer qualified as a disc ops.
Most REITs – otherwise you could adopt that standard was January 1 of this year so we did and most other REITs adopted it also.
So generally you will not see a lot in disc ops anymore and this was just to help you clarify how much NOI is maybe running through disc ops versus how much NOI is in the face of the financial the detail that you see when you’re doing your analysis we thought it might be helpful to split the two out for you.
Right so the NOI from Huntington and Maxatawny which have not sold yet – that’s still -- that's running through disc ops at this point so – on a go forward basis.
Right and the NOI for the other assets that are above are in continuing ops.
So we’re just trying to give you a little guidance since that came out and changed the classification of that.
And we want to provide some assistance for you – when you run your model.
Thank you.
The next question is from Rj Milligan of Raymond James.
Curious following up on Todd’s questions about dispositions just what the appetite is out there if there's a particular asset size or type that there's a lot of demand out there for and who is out there looking at those assets to buy? So the way I would characterize the universe of buyers that Mike might amplify my comments is that the assets with very thin demographics and we have some assets that have again like our average density 22 000 people.
We have assets within that average that are less than 20 000 some of these very rural assets are susceptible to competition.
Frankly that’s why we are looking to sell them and some of those assets again have a hard time attracting super aggressive bids.
As you start trending up into the kind of 30 40 50 000 people 3 mile densities which again are – they’re not urban but yet they are not rural they’re sort of secondary market type assets where they have healthy grocers those actually do attract very aggressive bidding and we’ve seen a fairly a healthy appetite.
And so just to give you a feel for the types of buyers yet the buyers of the very thin density assets are typically non-institutional smaller scale buyers.
The buyers of some of our – again bottom quartile -- bottom half assets that we’re selling that are in slightly more dense call it 30 000 to 50 000 people population densities are other REIT – other REITs or other – some non-traded REITs some smaller public REITs that are finding – feel that these assets are more than adequate for their portfolio it’s obviously where we've concluded that they are not appropriate for our aspirational portfolio which we hope will be again among the best of all shopping center REIT.
So that’s how I would characterize it a lot of the breakpoints really have to do with just how rural these centers are and then obviously how – high quality the gross rent – I don’t know Mike if you want to amplify that or -- Yes I think Bruce has hit it right on the bull’s eye characterizing the different types of buyers.
But we do see – and you did ask what is I guess the most interesting product out there with the most demand and that’s certainly the core assets in urban areas.
We’ve continued to see compression of cap rates on those properties and I do not see it lessening in the near future.
And I know it’s early guys but how is Quartermaster shaping up relative to underwriting or is it too early to comment? So far we’re very careful in our underwriting of that asset it’s performed probably a little bit better than we had hoped it would but the real upside in this center is how we leverage the 100 000 square feet of expansion potential and how we also use it to enhance the potential redevelopment of this asset [ph] and that’s all yet to come.
So the real benefit of Quartermaster we’re certainly benefiting from it now in the sense that it’s doing a little bit better than we had thought but the real benefit is going to be borne out by how -- have the ability and successfully execute on investing into that center and using it as a way to invest into South Phil.
And the next question is from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
With the total portfolio leased at 93.3% what would be the physical occupancy relative to that number? Craig it’s Nancy.
Physical occupancy is roughly 110 basis points less than that and it’s an interesting number because if you look back historically for us from a physical occupancy standpoint where we stand today is roughly where we were in 2008 and on the lease side for overall occupancy we’re basically at number where we were in 2007.
And then how long do you think that vacancy will get occupied or how long will it take for that? In terms of the spread between lease rate I would say quite a bit of it has been done already and we expect I would say a high percentage of it to be reflected in balance of 2014.
We lease for example Michaels at Brickyard Shopping Center that will likely translate to revenue in 2015 but much of what we have including the Walmart deal in Kempsville in Virginia will be reflected in the latter part of 2014.
And then just we've been hearing from some of your peers that they're able to put in some stronger contractual annual bumps into leases.
Are you having any success in that area? Interesting you say that as we have mentioned previously we have a significant amount of square footage rolling over the next three years.
And one of the methods that we’ve implemented quite successfully is importing annual escalators into many of those leases particularly with the small shop.
Quite frankly our numbers are strong at 9% cash spread but if we were to cut flat rent deals for example we would likely be in the double digit but we’ve intentionally focused on gaining those kinds of escalators.
So I would say that that’s absolutely true for us.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Schanzer for any closing remarks.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
We continue to process of causing Cedar to be a leading shopping center REIT as reflected by our consistently improving operating results and value per share.
We appreciate your investing the time to follow our progress and hope to maintain our positive trajectory.
Have a good evening.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the third quarter 2014 Cedar Realty Trust earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now turn the call over to Jennifer Bitterman Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Analytics.
Please proceed.
Good evening and thank you for joining us for the third quarter 2014 Cedar Realty Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today’s call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer; Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Head of Leasing.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the company’s most recent Form 10-K and other periodic filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of this call October 30 2014 and the company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar’s earnings press release posted on its website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Good evening and welcome to the third quarter 2014 earnings call of Cedar Realty Trust.
This earnings call marks three years since the introduction of the new Cedar as reflected in our slightly modified name and more significantly in a dramatically different way of doing business.
Over the last three years we have implemented a five-part long term strategic plan focused on grocery anchored shopping center between Washington DC and Boston with an emphasis on leasing selected redevelopment capital recycling and business segment management.
In executing this plan we have successfully repositioned the company in a manner that has been very rewarding to our shareholders.
Since the introduction of our plan three years ago Cedar is the best performing shopping center REIT as measured by total shareholder return.
This achievement of vaulting from last to first is something of which we are proud though we acknowledge there is still a mountain left to climb before we can characterize ourselves as a leading shopping center REIT.
The successes we have achieved over the past three years are a credit to all to members of Team Cedar who have dedicated themselves to everyday excellence This commitment is especially apparent in my senior executive colleagues that I refer to as my kitchen cabinet all of whom are on this call namely Phil Mays our CFO; Brenda Walker our COO; Nancy Mozzachio our head of leasing and incoming COO; Charles Burkert our head of construction and development; Adina Storch our general counsel; and Michael Winters our head of acquisitions and dispositions.
I would also like to welcome Lori Manzo one of our senior leasing executives to the kitchen cabinet and congratulate her on her promotion to be our new head of leasing effective when Nancy becomes COO in January of 2015.
On that note I would be remiss if I didn’t take a moment on the occasion of her promotion to acknowledge Nancy and her extraordinary contributions in helping to drive the success of the new Cedar which in turn has led to her well-deserved promotion to COO.
As head of leasing Nancy has proven to be an exemplary leader and manager and we are excited for both her and our company as she gears up to take on greater responsibility.
Last but certainly not least since this will be the last earnings call on which she will be participating I would like to sincerely thank Brenda for everything she has done for this company during her distinguished 30-year career with us.
Brenda we will miss you very much and wish you well as you transition into retirement.
As Phil and Nancy will discuss in greater detail in their remarks the third quarter was another solid one from both a financial performance and leasing perspective.
We tightened the low end of guidance and continued making improvements on the balance sheet front.
Furthermore we checked all the boxes from a leasing perspective in terms of occupancy volume and cash spreads.
One facet of our performance that is not reflected in our quarter results but is something which I expect will be a source of long term earnings growth and stability is the ongoing capital recycling program we are aggressively executing.
During this past year we have continued upgrading our portfolio in the direction of our top two quartiles by selling assets in the bottom two quartiles and using the proceeds to acquire better assets.
As we have previously disclosed the cap rate spread between what we are selling and what we are buying is roughly 150 to 200 basis points.
Obviously over the long term we believe this company will perform better by virtue of owning these higher quality assets divesting our lower quality assets and reducing leverage.
As I have discussed on prior earnings calls we evaluate our portfolio statistically and divide it into quartiles based on those statistics.
Over most measurement periods we have found that on a back-tested basis the centers in our top two quartiles grow more consistently and are more resilient.
When taken in the aggregate these centers have the characteristics found in the portfolios of many of the more prominent shopping center REITs.
Specifically the centers in the top two quartiles have meaningfully higher average base rents well in excess of $15 per square foot and superior demographics exceeding 100 000 people on average within a three-mile radius.
Notably the assets in our top two quartiles when taken in the aggregate represent almost 80% of the value of the company.
Accordingly as we continue to execute on our capital recycling plan I would expect our entire portfolio to reflect more of these characteristics.
Before handing it over to Nancy I would just comment that although not an explicit part of our five-part plan we are very mindful of how all this activity impacts our NAV and ultimately translates into share price performance.
In our corporate presentation we have a page that provides the building blocks of our NAV.
Hopefully as we continue providing the market with greater transparency into what our assets are worth through our capital recycling transaction activity it will translate into the appropriate cap rate being applied to our shares.
With that I give you Nancy for a recap of our operating performance in the third quarter.
Thank you Bruce.
Leasing results for the quarter evidence a measured approach to fulfilling the company’s long term strategic plan.
We signed 41 new and renewal leases representing 187 800 square feet in the third quarter.
What’s particularly compelling is the fact that the average rents were $17.83 per square foot for these leases.
Further new comparable leasing alone produced rents of $25.02 per square foot double the average base rent within the portfolio.
The combination of the team’s focus on tenant mix with an emphasis on service and restaurant uses supplemented by a disciplined approach to use of capital has made all the difference in producing quality results.
While we are encouraged by the growth in this sector we are continually ascertaining retail expansion plans through orchestrated portfolio reviews.
This contributed to a nice pop of 50 basis points in physical occupancy and it is worth noting physical occupancy is now 92.7%.
Renewal activity was on track at 8.9% cash spreads and 161 000 square feet.
While we are pleased with the results we would like to point out that we are willing and would likely allow certain leases to expire realizing short term vacancy in order to fully capture the value of these replacement leases.
Originally there were approximately 1.3 million square feet scheduled to expire in 2014.
At the close of the third quarter adjusting for disposition we renewed just over 1.1 million square feet.
Importantly we achieved 9.4% cash spreads for the square footage renewed.
This spread represents incremental cash revenue of approximately $882 000.
I would be remiss if I did not mention progress to date with 2015 renewals.
Originally there were approximately 1.3 million square feet scheduled to expire in 2015.
Also adjusting for disposition approximately 35% has been successfully renewed.
These results are the product of the leasing team’s focus on long term value creation at our centers by executing deals with annual escalators to ensure steady NOI growth and enhancing tenant mix to drive sales and upgrade cred quality.
As we continue to identify and explore select future redevelopment opportunities execution of existing redevelopment projects continues.
For example Walmart Neighborhood Market opened just last week in Kempsville Crossing in Virginia Beach with a filled-to-capacity parking field.
We are continuing efforts to upgrade small shop tenancies at Kempsville while effectively renewing select tenants at strong renewal rates.
Moreover we expect to deliver a Michaels store this year at Brickyard Plaza and a multitenant outparcel building next spring in Trexlertown Pennsylvania of which approximately 50% of the GLA is preleased.
We are also actively exploring another multitenant outparcel building at Upland Square in Pottstown Pennsylvania.
All of these projects are expected to produce double digit returns on capital invested.
Before I hand the call over to Phil I would like to take a moment to expand on Bruce’s comments about Lori Manzo Cedar’s new head of leasing.
Lori has worked in the leasing department at Cedar for eight years.
She has and continues to embody all of the qualities of an excellent leasing professional negotiator and leader.
In addition she has proven to be an exceptional representative for Cedar within the tenant community and has set a high bar for excellence within the leasing department and more broadly within Team Cedar.
I know I speak for the entire leasing team when I say we are very excited for Lori and her future growth at Cedar.
As I move into even a larger role within Cedar I am confident we will continue to make meaningful improvements on both the leasing and operational front.
In closing our team is aligned and focused on achieving solid results within the framework of the company’s long term plan now and in the future.
With that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy and good evening everyone.
On this call I will highlight our operating results and provide an update on our balance sheet and 2014 FFO guidance along with some additional thoughts on 2015.
Starting with operating results operating FFO was $10.8 million or $0.14 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $9.5 million or $0.13 for the same period last year.
For the quarter our same property NOI increased 1.9% including redevelopment properties and 1.2% excluding them.
The growth including redevelopment properties was driven by leasing at Colonial Commons and Trexlertown Plaza.
With regard to our balance sheet we ended the quarter with almost $170 million available under our revolving credit facility and net debt to EBITDA of 7.4x.
this is the lowest debt to EBITDA we have reported at the end of a quarter since Bruce and I joined Cedar a little more than three years ago.
As you may recall at that time debt to EBITDA was greater than 9x and we made a commitment to strengthen the balance sheet.
We are pleased with our progress thus far and we will continue to focus on this measure.
Moving to guidance we are raising the low end of our full year 2014 operating FFO guidance to an updated range of $0.53 to $0.54 per diluted share.
Please note that as part of our 2014 capital recycling efforts we have now completed approximately $80 million of dispositions through Q3 and anticipate about $100 million of dispositions for the full year.
Notably almost half of the $100 million of dispositions will be completed in the last two quarters of 2014 and while not having a full impact on this quarter’s FFO these dispositions will have more of an impact on our fourth quarter FFO and going forward into 2015.
Continuing with the topic of FFO for 2015 consistent with prior years we will provide initial FFO guidance for 2015 on our fourth quarter earnings call.
However as there are certain items impacting 2015 that are outgrowths of our long term plan I thought it would be beneficial to discuss them on this call.
First in 2015 we will continue our capital recycling efforts aimed at upgrading our portfolio.
Again dispositions will continue to be culled from our lower quartile assets and acquisitions will have characteristics similar to our upper quartile assets.
Consequently this process will cause a temporary reduction in property NOI as cap rates for the acquisitions will be lower than the dispositions.
We simply believe that long term growth and value-added opportunities are greater with high-quality assets such as those that comprise the top half of our portfolio.
Second we will continue our efforts to maximize the benefits from our expiring leases.
We originally had about one third of our GLA rolling over the three-year period from 2014 through 2016.
Our goal here is to maximize the long term value creation available from this releasing opportunity and not just settle for a short term earnings list.
Accordingly as Nancy stated we are willing to accept some temporary vacancy as leases expire in order to fully capture this value.
Third in connection with our COO transition we are adding two to three additional hires primarily to enhance our asset management function.
This will cause our 2015 G&amp;A to grow more than usual.
However it’s important to note at Cedar we view payroll the same as any other capital decision.
We are making this human capital investment because we fully expect the resulting enhanced management of our assets to provide an attractive return over the long term.
With that thank you for indulging my early detour into 2015.
I hope at a minimum this discussion did provide some insights on how we plan and operate with our long term view.
I will now open the call for questions.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question is from the line of Paul Morgan with MLB.
Talking about acquisitions and dispositions you continue to plug away at the noncore sales more this quarter and a few more added to the pipeline in your sub.
How are you looking at sources and uses with respect to acquisitions? You’ve talked in the past about how the acquisitions are going to kind of be paired up with the dispositions.
It’s been relatively quiet since Quartermaster.
Is there stuff percolating as well on the buy side? And if not will that rein in the pace of dispositions at all? Broadly speaking when we think about our capital recycling your characterization is correct.
We are selling assets as we identify acquisitions and so in terms of the order of operations it will generally be an acquisition followed by divestitures to pay for that acquisition.
In terms of the acquisition pipeline and therefore how we see further dispositions coming along we are reasonably close on another deal that hasn’t yet been finalized and so we haven’t announced it.
We have a really stout pipeline of opportunities that we’ve identified largely off market actually all in our footprint.
Very attractive assets that we’re excited about underwriting.
I could tell you without a doubt most of them will not result in acquisitions just because of our fine filter that we take to acquisition candidates.
But again I think that the pace of acquisitions that we had last year when you take Quartermaster plus one more deal let’s say that realistically probably won’t close this year but we’ve sort of soft circled.
I think that we’ll probably see a similar magnitude of deals next year.
And again it will be acquisitions followed by divestitures.
You mentioned 35% of the 2015 lease expirations have been renewed to date.
Are the spreads on those transactions kind of consistent with sort of the plus 9% that you’ve been posing over the past few quarters? I think that’s right.
I think at this point again we’re looking October at where we are in 2015 and I’d say the split is probably 80-20 80% of the completed transactions are options that were exercised and the 20% are straight renewals.
When we look at those numbers they’re very consistent with what we’ve done thus far.
And the lease rate and the occupancy rates moved in different directions a little bit in the quarter.
Occupancy ticked up and the lease rate ticked down a little bit.
Is there anything I should read into that and how that might flow into the run rate for your same-store NOI growth.
The reason the lease moved the way it did is we put two properties in held for sale this quarter Liberty and Circle.
One’s 98% occupied and leased and the other’s 100% occupied and leased.
So that was more just a function of those coming out than anything in the core portfolio.
Our next question comes from the line of RJ Milligan with Raymond James.
Just a couple of questions Phil on your comments about 2015.
Do you have an estimate as to where you think the spread would be in terms of acquisitions versus dispositions? From a cap rate perspective? I think I had mentioned 150 to 200 basis points.
And then what are you guys thinking in terms of disposition volume for next year? Well some of it again will depend on our success in sourcing and closing on acquisitions.
So I’d be reluctant to go too far out on a limb on that but I would say just based on the answer that I gave to Paul before it probably order of magnitude similar to what we did this year.
So I think I would be disappointed if we weren’t able to get $100 million done again.
But I wouldn’t be surprised if it was a little bit smaller than that.
Again it really depends on our success in sourcing deals getting them underwritten to a point where we’re comfortable with them and then obviously finalizing contracts and closing all within the calendar year.
So that could cut either way.
Our next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel.
You talked about stratifying your portfolio.
I’m just curious if you could give us a little bit of a sense of how same-store NOI this quarter maybe last quarter broke out amongst the different groups of assets in your portfolio.
Generally our top two quartiles are about 75% of NOI growth when we look at it historically 2% to 3%.
The bottom two which is only 25% NOI is zero to 1% a little emphasis on the zero.
So when you put those together that’s kind of our current run rate of 1% to 2% and as we continue to recycle you should see that grow.
So until you recycle is this basically what we should expect? One to two and then as we continue to recycle you’ll see continual gradual improvement in that.
And then just on those vacant anchors any more visibility in terms of signing some additional leases there? We’re working it Nate.
We’re not ready to announce although I can assure you that we’re actively working.
In fact we have a weekly meeting for a particular group of assets and that speaks to I guess the momentum that’s occurring within those assets that relates to that dark anchor replacement.
Any sense on timing there? I think it’s probably too soon to tell at this point.
We’ll definitely make sure that it’s part of our remarks at the appropriate time but I think at this point we’re not ready to state anything.
And are you seeing slippage in those assets in terms of the small shops at this point? Are people holding on? You know interestingly enough I’ll use West Bridgewater Massachusetts as an example.
We were fortunate enough that we were able to renew a significant number of tenants within that portfolio prior to Shaw’s closing.
And a lot of those renewals happened to be five to ten year renewals.
So we haven’t really seen much by way of slippage with that particular asset.
Maybe one space or so but not anything that’s significant.
And in discussions with the tenants there are they sorry they just signed the renewals are they telling you their sales are reasonably healthy there? I mean keep in mind that Shaw’s closed the store in this particular example because the sales were not particularly strong.
So I mean even though it’s a loss of traffic it wasn’t necessarily something that caused them to stay and renew.
I think many of those tenants are service-oriented tenants.
You know bank service oriented tenants laundromats this sort of thing.
I think it’s just the convenience of coming to a particular location.
Granted could it be better if there was an anchor open? Of course.
But I think that we haven’t seen them complaining in an extremely detrimental way to us to say that they’re concerned that they renewed.
On these assets that you sign an anchor and you say okay these are on the for sale list at that point? Or do you think these assets are keepers? That’s a good question.
It really depends on the asset.
On the whole I would characterize us thinking about the ones that we’re reasonably close on or that we’re making headway on and I’d say they’re generally keepers.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc.
Question for Phil.
As we think about 2015 a bit more you have a little more than $100 million of debt maturing and a line balance of about $80 million.
How should we think about that next year? Should we think about this year’s term loan as a model? So the $150 million you did with the delayed draws is that something that would sort of be a preferred way to go about refinancing that? There’s three options that we’re primarily looking at: the term loan similar to last year.
It’s probably top of the list.
We could also try to tap the private placement market.
And third now that we’ve unencumbered a lot of assets we could go pick two of our larger assets and do two mortgages on those that would more than cover all ten mortgages maturing.
But we try to unencumber our portfolio.
We’ll probably stay away from that.
So if you’re thinking about ’15 I’d lean to something similar to what we did last year.
And the only thing I would note is if you look at the maturities a lot of those are pretty late in the year.
So it won’t have a huge impact on this year.
It would be more of an impact to ’16.
And then just given the relatively small size of the portfolio I was just curious were there any larger or meaningful anchor leases that commenced during the quarter where there was no full quarter of income that shows up in the statements.
You mentioned Colonial Commons or Trexlertown where there’s some redevelopment ongoing.
Or any other centers? I can’t think of any large anchors commenced.
We talked about Walmart but that was October.
If you’re doing like a cash NOI the Walmart’s not in yet.
They have a short free rent period here.
So if you’re just picking up our NOI it would not reflect the Walmart lease even though they’ve been in for the full quarter.
When does the cash rent commence for that Walmart? October 19.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Kucera with Wunderlich Securities.
I saw your diluted share count dropped a bit.
It looks like it’s predominantly on an OP unit side.
Is that just a function of some of the dispositions you guys have been able to execute? No we have a few guys who hold the OP units.
There’s not a lot out there and one of them presented a few for redemption so we just redeemed them for cash.
But you’re not buying stock in the market.
That’s just all the OP unit side for redemptions? That was just a few OP units that got tendered to us.
And then secondarily how are you thinking about your redevelopment opportunities and sort of spend? Are we still thinking maybe in the $5 million plus or minus per quarter? That’s right.
So what I would guide you to broadly our two types of capital redevelopment spending.
So one is this $5 million a quarter or call it $20 million a year which generally what you might to use baseball parlance we call singles and doubles.
In addition to that we are actively pursuing a number of more substantial redevelopments that again would exceed that $20 mark.
But as with all redevelopment there are any number of things that could cause them never to actually happen and so until they come together we’re not going to speak too much about them.
There appear to be no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining us this evening.
We look forward to seeing you next week at [unintelligible].
Welcome to the fourth quarter 2014 Cedar Reality Trust earnings conference call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time all audience lines have been placed on mute.
We will conduct a question and answer session following the formal presentation.
I will now turn the call over to Jennifer Bitterman.
Thank you for joining us for the fourth quarter 2014 Cedar Reality Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today’s call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer; Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical may be deemed to be forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Due to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the company’s most recent Form 10K and other periodic filings with the SEC forward-looking statements speak only as the date of this call February 19 2015 and the company under takes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar’s earning’s press release posted on its website for reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Thank you all for joining us for the fourth quarter 2014 earnings call of Cedar Reality Trust.
On this call we will discuss our fourth quarter and full year results as well as our 2015 guidance.
More generally we will review the measures we are continuing to take to maximize the per share value of Cedar through the implementation of our long term strategic plan.
I will also briefly touch on our recent capital markets activities which I will acknowledge bear more than a passing resemblance to the capital markets measures we took just about a year ago.
These are exciting times at Cedar.
This call is the first one in which Nancy Mozzachio is officially participating as our new COO.
In addition Lori Manzo is now in as our Head of Leasing.
Both executives have hit the ground running in their respective roles and I am excited for the future of the company with them making ever greater contributions.
I am also joined as always by Phil Mays our CFO Mike Winters who recently bestowed the well-deserved title of Chief Investment Officer Charles Burkert our Head of Construction and Development and Adina Storch our General Counsel.
Of course our secret sauce is our team culture and I would be remiss if I didn’t acknowledge the contributions of all the members of team Cedar who work tirelessly and with a diligent focus on everyday excellence.
Although I will let Phil review our results in detail as well as walk you through our 2015 guidance I would just note that our full year operating FFO per share of $0.54 and our fourth quarter operating FFO per share of $0.13 were both as expected.
Similarly our leasing efforts continue to be solid and continue to serve as a foundation for a lot of the other measures we are taking to push Cedar’s portfolio further out the quality spectrum.
2014 was an important year for Cedar as we shifted from defense to offense having concluded the last divestiture contemplated by our near term strategic plan to reduce leverage and strategically focus the company.
As we completed the near term plan in early 2014 we began the implementation of our five part long term strategic plan: first to focus on grocery anchored shopping centers between DC and Boston; second to extract maximum value from our centers by focusing on operations and leasing; third to grow the value of our centers by investing back into them; fourth to actively manage and improve our portfolio by migrating our capital into higher value submarkets within our footprint; and fifth to preserve and enhance value by building and maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet.
With Nancy in her new role I have asked her to touch on the first two elements of our long term strategic plan that is to not only review our leasing results in more detail but also to review the status of some of our redevelopments.
On the topic of capital migration the third element of our long term plan beginning in early 2014 we commenced the process of migrating some of our capital from lower density secondary markets within our DC to Boston footprint into higher density primary markets within the same geography.
Generally speaking the capital being migrated is currently invested in our lower two cortile shopping centers.
Our first transaction in furtherance of this strategy was also our largest acquisition ever Quartermaster Plaza in downtown Philadelphia for roughly $93 million earlier in the year.
To fund this acquisition we divested eight relatively small shopping centers for total proceeds of approximately $95 million.
Notably the cap rate differential between the divestitures and purchases was between 150 and 200 basis points which is admitted dilutive to our earnings in the short term.
The eight assets that we sold have an average three mile population of 32 000 people and average base rents of $10.40 per square foot.
On the other hand Quartermaster has over 320 000 people within a three mile radius literally 10 times the number of people and average base rents of nearly $14 per square foot.
As we enter 2015 we intend to continue this process of capital migration from less dense to more dense markets with a corresponding improvement in average asset quality.
Currently we have another grocery anchored shopping center in Philadelphia teed up at a purchase price of approximately $25 million which we have not identified by name but which has over 350 000 within a three mile radius and average base rents of $17.60 per square foot.
We hope to close on this center during the first half of 2015.
We are in the process of selling two centers and recently closed on one center that together have an average of fewer than 20 000 people within a three mile radius with average base rent in the single digits per square foot for which we expect to generate roughly $18 million in the aggregate.
I would also note on the acquisition front that during the first quarter we acquired our 60% partner’s interest in the New London Shopping Center in New London Connecticut.
This very high quality supermarket anchored center is a top half center within our portfolio and we are pleased to now own it in its entirety.
Although we do not have any other shopping centers currently under contract I want to give you a feel for what is hopefully coming down the road.
We are actively working through a largely off market pipeline of acquisition opportunities each of which would represent a top docile asset within our portfolio.
Generally speaking we expect to fund these purchases with the proceeds of asset sales though to the extent we see continued strong performance from our stock we will probably use some common equity or OP units as well.
As with the purchases and sales we completed during 2014 there is a negative cap rate spread that will result in near term FFO dilution.
We are endeavoring to minimize this dilution as much as possible through intensive leasing and management of our centers a zealous focus on G&amp;A and opportunistic posturing towards the debt and equity capital markets.
That said on balance we are much more focused right now on growing the net asset value per share of Cedar in selling weaker assets to acquire stronger assets we believe we’re building the foundation for greater growth in NAV per share over a longer period of time and through different market cycles.
Unfortunately there is no way to perfectly predict which deals will culminate in completed acquisition though I am cautiously optimistic some of the opportunities we are currently working on will break our way.
What I would highlight more than anything else is that my colleagues and I are not only working for US shareholders we are working four ourselves as shareholders too.
We are willing to suffer a more muted FFO growth rate over the next year or so in exchange for a dramatically improved shopping center portfolio that will all benefit from for many years to come as shareholders of Cedar.
In terms of the last element of our long term strategic plan that is our balance sheet I will let Phil comment in greater detail on our recent equity offering as well as our recent term loans and line recast.
I will admit that the parallels to 2014 are not completely a coincidence but rather reveal a strong bias for management towards prudent and opportunistic management of our capital structure.
We are very pleased that once again investors in our offering were rewarded with strong share price performance immediately thereafter.
I will conclude by noting that as a result of the equity offering our leverage dropped to below seven times on a debt-to-EBITDA basis over two times lower than when Phil and I started at Cedar about three and a half years ago.
Moreover our balance sheet is now roughly 70% unsecured from just about 100% secured when we started.
Lastly our covenants are now better suited to tapping other unsecured capital markets.
I don’t want to steal Phil’s thunder so I will stop here and leave it to him to discuss the two deals and our balance sheet improvements in greater detail.
With that I give you Nancy to discuss leasing operations and our redevelopment pipeline.
This evening I will discuss portfolio results for the fourth quarter and full year performance.
I will also provide updates on redevelopment activity as well as operations more generally.
As Bruce mentioned in his remarks capital migration is a critical element of Cedar’s strategic plan.
We are well underway in this portion of the plan and are continuing to upgrade the portfolio.
Although consistent in leasing statistics throughout 2014 results do not yet reflect the full operational reward recycling will afford the leasing department and the company more generally.
With that winds of economic recovery at our backs and limited new retail supply we made and will continue to make operational choices to deliver quality results over the long run which in some cases means strategically sacrificing short term occupancy for the sake of better replacement tenants at higher rents.
Leasing volume for the fourth quarter was consistent with previous quarters throughout the year.
We leased 28 782 square feet of space with new cash rents of $17.90.
For the full year we leased $158 927 feet with cash rents of $16.59.
Average base rents for the entire portfolio now stands at $12.73 versus $12.31 at year end in 2013.
The majority of new leasing for the quarter was completed within first cortile assets reaffirming the importance of the company’s strategy to recycle capital out of lower cortile assets and into denser high quality assets.
Renewal activity within the quarter was strong with 203 982 square feet renewed at cash spreads of 10% our highest reported cash spread throughout the year.
Notably we renewed 969 585 square feet for the year representing the high end of 2014 guidance at meaningful cash spreads of 9.2% and have completed 25% of 2015 renewals as of this call.
Same store occupancy increased in the fourth quarter and we expect a slight dip in the first quarter of 2015 after which time we expect to gradually improve.
The occupancy dip in Q1 of 2015 is the result of Cedar’s tenant portfolio management efforts where we allowed certain leases to expire to make way for higher quality tenants at current market rates.
It is important to note that while these lease occupy a larger square footage revenue generated from these leased spaces is relatively low and therefore we believe the time is right to accept vacancy in exchange for upside opportunity.
Cedar’s redevelopment program advanced in 2014 where we delivered a Michaels store late in 2014 at Brickyard Shopping Center and expect to deliver the last junior anchor space in that center in late 2015.
Wal-Mart Neighborhood Market at Kempsville Crossing continues to produce above projection weekly volumes and we are in advanced discussions with tenants for the last few spaces of this asset.
In 2015 we expect to commence construction of an outparcel building at our Trexlertown Shopping Center with completion anticipated in late summer.
The project will produce mid double digit returns.
Additionally we expect to commence construction on an outparcel building for two high quality tenants in the Upland Square Shopping Center in Pottstown Pennsylvania an advanced entitlement on another project to add a grocer in Groton Connecticut.
We have identified other redevelopment opportunities and hope to announce substantial plans for these value add opportunities within coming quarters.
Now turning to operations.
It is worth nothing as operators within the northeast we are sometimes subject to adverse weather conditions such as the historic snowfalls occurring in New England resulting in higher than anticipated snow removal costs some of which are not recoverable.
From the G&amp;A front expenses ticked up a bit in 2014 as we previously announced strategic additions to the company’s asset management department.
While we remain confident in the execution of the company’s strategic plan we are acutely aware of the trade we are making in sacrificing occupancy in the short term in exchange for higher rent and quality tenants in the long term.
As I look to 2015 in my new role as COO I am confident that the steps we are taking today will lead to positive results on both the leasing and operational front in the coming quarters and years to come.
With that I give you Phil.
On this call I will provide an update on our balance sheet and discuss our recent capital markets activity operating results and initial 2015 guidance.
Let me start with the balance sheet.
In 2014 an early into 2015 we took consistent and measured steps to both strengthen our balance sheet and improve financial flexibility.
We ended 2014 with net debt to EBITDA of 7.4 times an after the $42 million common stock offering in January 2015 our net debt to EBITDA was 6.9 times.
Additionally just two weeks ago we closed $100 million of unsecured term loans essentially prefunding our 2015 mortgage maturities.
These term loans consist of a five year $50 million term loan and a seven year $50 million term loan.
Further by obtaining a delayed draw feature and forward LIBOR swaps that begin July 1 2015 we are able to better match the timing of our 2015 maturities and mitigate interest risks.
The effective fixed interest rate beginning July 1 2015 are 2.9% for the five year term loan and 3.4% for the seven year term loan.
Notably once our 2015 mortgage maturities are refinanced with these unsecured notes [indiscernible] 70% property NOI will be unencumbered.
While we were engaged with our bank group closing these new loans we also took the opportunity to extend the maturity dates and reduce pricing for our existing credit facility.
As a reminder our credit facility consists of a $260 million revolver and a $50 million term loan.
The maturity date of the revolver was extended from August 2016 to February 2019 and the pricing was reduced 25 basis points.
The maturity date of the term loan was extended from August 2018 to February 2020 and the pricing was reduced 10 basis points.
One last note regarding the balance sheet.
We ended 2014 with about $190 million of availability under our revolver.
This is more than adequate liquidity especially given that our 2015 maturities are prefunded with the new notes.
Moving to operating results.
For the quarter operating FFO was $10.3 million or $0.13 per diluted share.
For the year operating FFO was $42.5 million or $0.54 per diluted share representing 8% annual growth compared to 2013.
This growth occurred not withstanding our reduction in leverage and capital migration activity as the timing of this capital migration activity provided a slight lift to earnings in the middle of the year.
As you may recall we completed the $93 million acquisition of Quartermaster Plaza in Q1 and then followed it with roughly a similar amount of dispositions throughout the remainder of the year.
With regards to same property NOI growth including redevelopments same property NOI increased 2.6% for the quarter and 1.6% for the year.
When redevelopment properties are excluded same property NOI increased 1.9% for the quarter and 1.8% for the year.
Now to 2015 guidance.
We are establishing a 2015 operating FFO guidance range of $0.51 to $0.54 per diluted share.
The key assumptions underlying this guidance along with some color are as follows same property NOI growth of 1% to 2% and relatively flat occupancy by year end.
Due to the tenant move outs and leasing activity that Nancy discussed we expect both same property NOI and occupancy will be impacted early in the year and gradually improve towards the end of 2015.
Additionally our guidance reflects a $1 million decrease in earnings from lower below market lease amortization the recently completed equity offering and debt refinancings and approximately $50 million of acquisitions.
As Bruce discussed we do have a healthy acquisition pipeline.
However the properties in our pipeline range significantly in value from $25 million to $100 million.
The closings could occur in 2015 or early 2015.
Some properties are unencumbered while others are highly levered and certain owners have tax considerations that may result in transacting with OP units.
Accordingly we feel it’s prudent to only include in our initial guidance the recent $27 million buyout of our New London Plaza JV partner and the $25 million Philadelphia acquisition Bruce discussed.
We will update our guidance throughout the year as we obtain more clarity around acquisitions.
Lastly please keep in mind that our $42 million equity offering completed early in January will create an initial drag as it closed prior to the anticipated $50 million of acquisitions included in guidance and represents a high ratio of equity to purchase price.
With that I’ll open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Todd M.
Thomas – Keybanc Capital Markets.
A couple of questions first Nancy you mentioned the strong renewal spreads in the quarter.
I was wondering should we expect to see those similar spreads throughout the year and hold steady or do you think we could see those sort of widen further? I would expect that in ’15 they’re going to continue or could possibly widen.
I mean we widened as we progressed through 2014.
It’s something that we invest a lot of time in and as you know we have a significant number of rolls even ’15 and ’16 but we thus far have completed about 25% of our renewals for 2015 and we’re seeing similar numbers.
Then you mentioned a bunch of outparcel and sort of redevelopment opportunities that are under way.
I was wondering what the expected spend looks like in 2015 and I realize some of the projects might not be completed in 2015 but what do you think the returns the yield on costs look like in the aggregate? Total spend for all the projects I mentioned and appreciate that also includes Brickyard which started earlier than 2014 is probably in the $20 million range.
But returns to us are high single digit in some cases double digit.
At Trexler Mall and Trexlertown Plaza any traction there on the leasing side? Yes.
Well Trexlertown Plaza if you recall we actually plugged in a sizeable tenant with Hobby Lobby that was a little over a year ago and they’re producing significant sales at that site.
The pad site that I mentioned will actually be out in front of the Giant parcel and we are I think three quarters of the way leased on that outparcel building.
The Trexler Mall side interestingly enough we just recently signed something with a tenant for the endcap which is really the last piece of that old Giant that then relocated over to the Trexlertown side.
It’s a very exciting retailer and we can’t wait for them to open and the expectation is roughly in late third quarter possibly early fourth quarter of this year.
Then just last question for Bruce sort of a bigger picture question.
I think last quarter you mentioned that the top two cortiles of the portfolio which were about 75% of the NOI were sort of looking historically at growth of 2% to 3% and the bottom cortile was sort of a drag on that closer to flat to 1% or so and you had 1% to 2% guidance last year you’re at 1% to 2% same store growth again this year when do you think we should start to see growth increase for the portfolio overall? How much more sort of asset recycling should we anticipate before growth starts to trend higher? That’s a great question and frankly it’s a question that I have myself just if I were to be transparent with you.
But I think it’s pretty mathematical so what I would guide you to is the fact that again as we continue to run this portfolio that’s made up of high quality top two cortiles which again makes up 75% of our NOI with a focus on continuing to upgrade the quality by selling assets in the bottom two cortiles as we divest those assets the same store NOI that gets kicked off by the top cortile assets will just be revealed in terms of being manifested in our numbers and not just being discussed on our calls.
I think that’s something that will be a function of when we get the deals done that I alluded to earlier.
Our order of operations as we’ve always discussed is that we try to close on our acquisitions before we pursue the divestitures to pay for those acquisitions and that’s going to continue to be our strategy so what I would expect is as we’re successful in getting the transactions that are in our acquisition pipeline done we’ll begin the process of divesting those lower cortile assets which drag down our growth and that will in turn lead to better growth in our portfolio.
Your next question comes from Nathan Isbee – Stifel Nicolaus.
A few questions first of all on the New London acquisition how did that come about? Did you guys initiate that or did the JV partner and what was pricing on it? We initiated that.
It’s a process that went on for the better part of a year and it’s not worth getting into all the details of it but it was something that we initiated again a little bit over a year ago.
The pricing is a little bit complicated only as much as we’re also partners with them in another asset San Souci so I don’t think it would be instructive to start talking about cap rates or anything like that.
But it was done and constructed at a price that we were very satisfied with and we feel good about it.
In fact we were thrilled [indiscernible] considering again we spent the better part of a year working with these folks on finalizing it.
Was it buried in the footnote just because of the cost per word in the press release? I’m not sure if I follow you there.
Then any progress on the vacant but paying anchors? Yes I mean we are making progress there.
I’ll let Nancy expand upon it but we’re pretty close on a couple of deals.
I’m reluctant as we have been in the past because we have some pretty sophisticated people on the other side getting into too much detail on that but maybe Nancy might want to expand a little bit more.
To add a little bit these deals take time to put through.
It’s certainly not something that we expect to happen in a three month cycle.
The good news is that we are progressing and we’re making forward movement in these deals and certainly the first opportunity we have to announce we will definitely announce.
Is there any expectation for deals in ’15? I would say yes.
Bruce I know you’ve talked about acquisitions a lot but I’m just curious your stock is clearly significantly higher than it was the last time you announced earnings I’m just curious how the higher stock prices has changed your outlook perhaps in terms of what you’re willing to pay etc.
and in terms of the acquisition market in general? I would say a few things.
One is we generally speaking and Mike is here we have a very good feel for what things are worth in our market so I can’t say that we would pay more or less for an asset based on where our share price is and also I would tell you we’re shareholders in this company and so we’re pretty stingy with our equity as a general statement and aren’t really looking to necessarily lead with equity in terms of how we fund things.
Again our first approach to buying assets is really going to be is to continue to divest our lower quality assets in order to fund higher quality asset acquisitions.
As a practical matter a number of the folks that we deal with are interested in our stock either because they have tax considerations or because they’re intrigued by the direction the company is going in and they like the idea of being exposed to our stock.
They think it’s a way to potentially get an even better return on their original real estate investment and we’re happy to engage with folks.
We’re not satisfied with where our share price is right now but we certainly recognize that it’s better than where it was and we’re comfortable in very limited situations exploring the idea of using some stock in addition to the proceeds of assets sales to help pay for acquisitions.
But I can tell you for sure that we are not paying any more than we would otherwise pay for an asset because our share price is higher.
Your next question comes from Paul Puryear – Raymond James.
Bruce just so we’re clear is the bottom two cortiles are all those properties ultimately targeted to be traded out of? I would never say all.
For example some of those assets are assets that we intend to invest into and hopefully improve their performance by virtue of making those investments.
I would say broadly though if you look at the fourth cortile those are probably assets that are almost uniformly going to be divested and then the third cortile are assets that are going to generally be divested.
I wouldn’t say all are going to be divested though.
There’s two properties listed in the supplemental those properties are being actively marketed? That’s right.
Can you give us any progress on that? We’re making great progress on both of them.
I would say that the smaller of the two assets we’re really far along on and we’re pretty close to closing.
The larger of the two assets candidly we’re slow playing a little bit because just again we want to make sure that we have the capital or the deal – we hopefully have an acquisition done that we can then use the proceeds from that sale in order to cycle into that acquired asset and so we’re slow playing a little bit but there’s plenty of healthy interest in the assets so we’re comfortable we’ll be able to sell it at an attractive price.
I was just wanting to start with if you could give us some information on the pricing for Huntington? That was a pretty ugly deal.
I’ll ask Phil if he has those numbers there but that was a very small asset and probably was very high single digits or maybe low double digits.
What was it Phil? I think if you look the AVR is below five the occupancy is 65% and that person is going to have to invest capital to probably take down part of the center and reconfigure it.
But I think the cap rate was 10 or more but it’s not great as far as [indiscernible] cap rate.
I think the sale price was a couple million because it is a redevelopment play that’s going to involve a fair amount of capital to put in and some timing on the lease up.
But just a going in cap rate was probably 10 something like that.
The soft process behind taking Maxatawny back into the operating portfolio and could we see the same thing happen going forward with properties that you’re bringing into the held for sale bucket? It’s unlikely.
Again Maxatawny as a practical matter when these things sit out there for a while at a certain point the accountants want you to take it back into the core portfolio which is part of it and the other thing is we’re continuing to lease up the center it is performing reasonably well.
It was originally a development asset and we had looked to sell it in the context of it being an underdevelopment asset way back when we started the process of divesting non-core assets.
Over the time we’ve completed the development and again it’s an asset that we’re likely to divest but it’s not one that we’re actively marketing in the way that the held for sale assets are being marketed.
I’ll add two thoughts to it.
One you’re really paying attention to the supplement to catch that and two we just didn’t feel like we were getting fair value for it.
We believe there’s multiple pads that could be put there and the bids that were coming in and the pricing wasn’t giving us fair value for that so we’re going to explore the outparcels a little more and leasing a little more to make sure we maximize our price on that.
We’re going to have it for more than a year so we just moved it back in.
I just wanted to get a little bit more color on the Philadelphia assets.
If there’s any pricing information that you could give what attracted you guys to the asset is there redevelopment opportunities lease up just any more color on the asset? I think I mentioned in my comment to the $25 million purchase price.
The grocer is one of the top supermarkets literally in the entire city of Philadelphia and so from [indiscernible] operator strength perspective we felt great about it.
Although there’s no redevelopment potential there the leases are very strong leases and that’s not surprising considering the strength of the grocer and so there’s a lot of embedded growth in it and the price was reasonable.
With the embedded growth we’re able to clear our target return threshold for an asset like that.
Then considering the density in our existing presence in the market it’s just a very sensible deal for us to do.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Paul Morgan – MLV &amp; Co.
Just in terms of the capital market transactions that you’ve done in the quarter can you just give a little bit of color about kind of how you thought about the timing in terms of prefunding? The equity for the acquisitions and the debt for the mortgage maturities certainly in retrospect it seems like you timed the cost of capital on both ends pretty well but was it just opportunistic? On the acquisition side were you thinking things might close a little earlier or how was the decision process? I think clearly we don’t have a crystal ball here so the fact that it was good timing is something that we’re pleased with but certainly didn’t know it was going to happen.
Last year for example when we did the same financing I think we probably could have done a smidge better if we had waited to do it.
But the consistency between what we did last year and what we did this year is really more of a window into how we think about the capitalization of our business which is we’re really trying to take a conservative approach to how we finance ourselves.
We’re very focused on making sure that we continue to unencumber our portfolio that we continue to reduce leverage and we also are trying to make sure that we’re planning for contingencies that of course we can’t necessarily anticipate perfectly but we know potentially could come along like a market correction associated with an interest rate spike or some other type of market correction and we have a business plan that does contemplate prudent growth through capital migration with some incremental capital being invested on top of it.
We do have a need to refinance mortgage maturities and we just felt that much like last year it just made sense to get ahead of some of these challenges in order to ensure that things went smoothly even if it meant potentially leaving some money on the table although fortunately in this instance it actually probably turned out that we came out ahead on the trade.
Between the equity ahead of the acquisitions and the debt issuance and what you mentioned about the equity on the occupancy side over the ramp of the course of the year it seems like we’ll have a decent ramp in FFO from first quarter to fourth quarter.
Have you thought about that? Is there a way for you to quantify what that might look like over the year? It should ramp up throughout the year and that’s what our forecast is.
There will be a drag in the first quarter because of the tenant move out that Nancy talked about and with the equity offering being done prior to the acquisitions so it will create a drag in the first quarter and the second quarter and then we’ll start to ramp up after that hopefully.
Given that you’ve locked down so much of the balance sheet side of things what are the kind of key factors that would lead you to be at the low or the high end of the range? Is it just timing in terms of transactions? You’re store range isn’t that wide? Yes it would mainly be timing and transactions with dispositions and acquisitions.
That would be the principle driver there.
Then just last I don’t know if it’s in the supp somewhere but I didn’t see it where are you now today in terms of the cash on the balance sheet after the transactions? How much cash is on the balance sheet? Yes.
There’s very little.
I keep my treasury person under strict orders to always make it as small as possible.
We’ve got a balance on the line so literally every week she’s sweeping any excess cash paying it down.
We ended the year with almost $200 million available on the line and then with the equity offering out after that it made almost the full line available to us.
This is part of prudent cash management we try to – other than escrows or restricted cash that we can’t get our hands on every week we pay down the line.
Hopefully if you ever see a large cash balance on the balance sheet you know I wasn’t doing my job.
But we try our best to keep it close to zero.
Where’s the line? The line ended the year at $72 million and then we did the $42 million equity offering just after the end of the year.
At this time I would turn the floor back to Bruch Schanzer for closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us this evening.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company and look forward to sharing with you our continued progress in the quarters to come.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Nicholas Partenza.
Please proceed.
Good evening and thank you for joining us for the first quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer; Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Due to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the company's most recent Form 10K and other periodic filings with the SEC forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this call May 05 2015 and the company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar's earnings press release posted on its website for reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Good evening and thank you for joining Cedar's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
As always I will spend a few minutes on the call reviewing our results before asking Nancy and Phil to discuss them in more detail.
I will also give you a feel for the measures we are taking in furtherance of our long term strategy.
In addition to Phil and Nancy I'm joined by the balance of the Cedar senior management team Charles Burkert our Head of Construction and Development; Lori Manzo our Head of Leasing; Adina Storch our General Counsel and Mike Winters our Chief Investment Officer.
As always the accomplishments we are describing on this call are credit to all the members of team Cedar most of whom are listening to this call.
And I thank them for doing their critical work with everyday excellence.
Our first quarter results were consistent with our guidance and expectations.
We had operating FFO per share of $0.13 which is a strong result in the context of our continued capital migration and delevering both of which are dilutive to earnings.
In addition our leasing results were solid with a number of exciting new junior anchor leases.
Lastly our leverage ratios continue to improve according to plan.
As we have discussed in the past our five-part long term strategy begins with a single minded focus on grocery anchored shopping centers in the Washington DC to Boston corridor.
We then emphasize leasing and operations value add redevelopment capital migration and conservative balance sheet management all to create and enhance shareholder value.
In the first quarter we announced two acquisitions in furtherance of the capital migration lag of our strategy.
First we acquired Lawndale Plaza in Philadelphia.
Second we acquired our partners 60% interest in the New London Mall in New London Connecticut.
Both centers are anchored by a shop right supermarket.
Our total outlay for the two acquisitions was roughly $53 million.
We are underwriting a number of additional high quality acquisition opportunities and expect to announce at least one or two deals before year end.
Notably all the centers we are presently looking at are off market opportunities.
Any one of these assets if we are successful in acquiring them will represent a top quartile asset and we'll most likely further diversify as geographically and by grocer banner.
In addition these acquisitions will generally advance our objective of migrating our capital from the bottom half of our portfolio which in the aggregate represents roughly 25% of the value of our company into grocery anchored shopping centers in higher density submarkets within our DC to Boston footprint.
I expect that if we succeed in executing our capital migration plan our portfolio will evolve so that it will eventually have the following salient characteristics.
First three mile population density will be substantially above the shopping center REIT average thereby driving consistently high traffic.
Second our average base rents will be dramatically above our current rate of roughly $13 per square foot.
Third the NOI growth rate of our centers will meaningfully improve from our current 1% to 2%.
Fourth more of our centers will have embedded value add investment opportunities.
Fifth our centers will offer greater stability and have defensive characteristics that will allow our portfolio to be even more resilient to market shocks such as we experienced during the great recession.
I know however we had one of the best performing shopping center portfolios during this period.
As discussed the acquisitions we are contemplating are generally going to be funded with the proceeds of assets sales from the bottom half of our portfolio.
Accordingly we are buying and selling assets in the same cap rate environment which mutes concerns about timing the market.
To a lesser extent we will potentially use some common equity or OP units to permanently finance these acquisitions as well as a modest amount of leverage in certain instances.
Taking a big step back Cedar has a strategy that is uniquely well suited to execute for three primary reasons.
First our narrow geographic and asset focus has led this company to be truly a team of local sharp shooters and asset type experts.
I've seen us consistently reap the benefits of this whether in terms of sourcing deals our government and local contacts or learning about news or trends before they are broadly known.
The Washington DC Philadelphia New York and Boston markets are four of the eight best and largest markets in the country.
We have more than enough opportunities within these markets to invest and create significant shareholder value.
Moreover these four markets are highly desired by both domestic and international institutional capital sources especially the grocery anchored shopping centers within these markets.
The persistent institutional demand for these assets in these markets underlies our investment thesis.
Second our relatively small size means that what we're doing with our portfolio will have a real impact on our metrics and operating fundamentals.
This sort of corporate transformation would be difficult to achieve with a larger portfolio or company.
Third as an organization we have developed a real expertise in actively and dispassionately managing our portfolio.
Since announcing our strategic reinvention in November of 2011 we have sold more than half our assets by number.
In describing a strategy that contemplates selling a significant part of our portfolio to reinvest into a few very high-quality centers we're confident that we’re likely to succeed in this endeavor because it is what we have been doing with considerable success for the past three years.
Of course our capital migration activities are not the only areas in which we are focusing and endeavoring to grow the per share value of Cedar.
We continue advancing a number of redevelopment projects some of which we have already disclosed and a couple of which have been on the drawing board for a few years and are now starting to come into sharper focus.
In addition our continued strong leasing results both in terms of new leases and renewal activity is solidifying the foundation for steady earnings growth.
However so as not to steal Nancy's thunder I will turn it over to her to elaborate.
Nancy? Thanks so much Bruce.
Operating fundamental for the first quarter of 2015 represents a solid period of new lease and renewal activity fueled primarily by commitments for junior anchor and grocer spaces as well as medical wellness and service uses.
New lease volume is up from the fourth quarter of last year and renewal volume is inline with previous quarters.
For the first quarter we executed 33 new and renewal leases totaling approximately 313 000 square feet with new lease cash spread of 12.1% and renewal spread of 7.3%.
Although AVR for new leases and renewals is lower than the previous quarter the reduction in new leases is mostly driven by the completion of a home goods lease.
If we were to exclude home goods from the AVR new lease AVR would be $15.22.
Lower renewal AVR was driven by two anchor renewals which were contractual options exercised by these tenants.
If we were to exclude these anchor contractual options renewal AVR would have been $12.59 with 8.2% cash spread.
New lease totals include commitments from home goods at Trexler Mall in Trexlertown Pennsylvania and grocery outlet at Fairview Commons in Harrisburg Pennsylvania.
We expect both tenants to open in the later half of this year and while these leases will not contribute much to earnings this year they are important long-term additions.
Notably subsequent to the close of the quarter we executed a second home goods lease at Colonial Commons shopping center in Harrisburg Pennsylvania.
Home goods expect to open at this asset in the back half of 2015.
While occupancy totals for the first quarter were slightly down from the fourth quarter of last year attributable to normal post holiday move-out it is important to know new transactions assisted in raising our AVR on all basis total portfolio same-center large shop and small shop.
The addition of Lawndale product to our portfolio and continued efforts attacking organic growth through rent escalations within new and renewal leases are the primary contributing factors for AVR growth.
We are pleased to report that the RadioShack bankruptcy has had very little impact on Cedar when it does settled established cell phone operators committed to approximately 75% of our RadioShack stores with approximately $241 000 in annual revenue.
Total revenue of the three spaces we received back was approximately $121 000.
Each of the returns former RadioShack stores are in active centers where we had the low market range.
We believe the new operator speed and committing to these spaces and our centers speaks to the quality of the assets within the portfolio.
On the redevelopment front we commenced construction in the fourth quarter on a 12 000 square foot pad building at Trexlertown Plaza shopping center.
The building is 50% pre-leased and we are finalizing otherwise LOIs for another 25% of the GLA.
Construction should be completed late in the third quarter with tenant opening schedule to occur before year's end.
We’re also advancing entitlement for another pad building at Upland Square.
The building will likely be on 100% leased when construction commences this year with store openings occurring late 2015 or early 2016.
Capital spend for each of these projects is between $2 million and $3 million.
In addition to these smaller projects we continue to [aggressively] [ph] pursue larger redevelopment and re-tenanting project which we hope to curtail on future calls.
In closing as we head to RECon we are excited about new tenant commitments and opportunities in our portfolio particularly on the junior anchor and small shop front.
We hope to leverage these commitments to drive further leasing activity within our centers and achieve our near and long-term goals.
With that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy and good evening.
Operating FFO was $0.13 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2015 consistent with $0.13 per diluted share for the first quarter of last year.
Same property NOI increased 2% including redevelopment and 1.2% excluding them.
The growth including redevelopment properties was driven by leasing at Colonial Commons and Kempsville Crossing.
Now let me provide some additional color regarding our operating FFO.
While $0.13 per share this quarter is consistent with the $0.13 per share we've quoted a year ago this financial measure loan does not tell the full story here at Cedar.
Consider the following year-over-year item; Financial leverage has decreased half a ton from 7.9 times to 7.4 times debt-to-EBITDA.
Interest coverage has increased from below 3 times to 3.2 times.
Financial and operating flexibility has increased as we continue to refinance secured debt with unsecured debt.
Average base rent per square foot has increased from approximately $12.50 to almost $13.
And the quality of our earnings has arguably improved as non-cash income from lease amortization now contributes about $1 million less per year.
In this context we are pleased with our operating results.
Before turning to guidance let me add a couple of balance sheet notes.
We ended the quarter with $184 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Additionally as a reminder we are refinancing the approximately $100 million of mortgage debt maturing in 2015 with $100 million of new unsecured term loans closed in February.
This $100 million of new term loans consist about $50 million five year term loan drawn at closing and a $50 million seven year term loan that we would draw down near mid year.
Lastly guidance.
We are reaffirming our 2015 operating FFO guidance range at $0.51 to $0.54 per diluted share.
This range is based on the same underlying assumptions provided in our fourth quarter 2014 call.
Again our 2015 guidance only reflects acquisitions and dispositions completed to-date.
And with that I will open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Nathan Isbee from Stifel.
Hi good afternoon.
There has been a lot of buzz in the shopping center space albeit regarding the M&amp;A you recently had an M&amp;A transaction which was announced.
And I was hoping you could talk broadly about your views about M&amp;A environment a bit more specifically.
Has Executive Team and the Board either contemplated or actually explored - what the appetite out there is for Cedar like portfolio? Thanks Nat.
So we are of course aware of what's been happening in the market and as you know I'm a former REIT M&amp;A banker so I have a better understanding than many of how the source of deals come together in terms of process structure and pricing.
So in response to your question what I will tell you might sound big but it is sincerely how we think about the topic.
We are public company so anyone who wants to buy our stock can do so.
Of course more generally we run this company for the benefit of our shareholders.
As you are aware the management team at Cedar in particular is very strongly incentivized through their ownership of stocking in the company to think like long term shareholders and to choose the path that maximizes total shareholder return.
Speaking for myself the vast majority of my network is invested in Cedar common stock so I believe speaking for myself my interest are aligned with Cedar shareholders.
All that said in my opinion as the Chief Executive of the Company the best thing for this company to do is to remain focused on growing the per share value of the company by methodically executing the well conceived strategic plan we just walk through.
I realize that it doesn't necessarily get into exactly what's going on in the boardroom but hopefully that answers your question.
Right.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi good afternoon.
So you essentially - you've met your acquisition target for the year it sounds like you are fairly confident about acquiring another one or two properties by year end.
What should we think about in terms of total dollars for new investments? Can you sort of book end for us and then Bruce you mentioned that additional acquisitions would diversify the footprint geographically what does that mean in the context of owning a Boston to DC corridor portfolio? That's a great question Todd I'm glad you asked for clarification around that.
To answer your first question we did announce the target in terms of the number of acquisitions or the value of the acquisition we thought we would acquire in 2015.
In fact I think on our last earnings call we acknowledged that although we are actively in the market that we really didn’t have visibility into what would necessarily come together.
Of course we have announced a few deals and we are reasonably confident about some of the other deals that we are looking at such that we think that they will probably announce another one two or maybe even three new deals by year end.
To give you a book end feel what that would represent that would probably be called in the aggregate $100 million to $150 million in aggregate value and so that's why we think about the 2015 acquisition volume in total.
In terms of your second question about diversifying what I meant – I'm glad you asked for clarification because our geographic focus is not changing bur rather when you look at where our capital is concentrated today more of it is in Pennsylvania than in the other markets that are within our footprint.
And so when I said that we would be diversifying geographically what I meant is that as we invest outside of Pennsylvania you’ll see a lowering of the concentration of our capital in Pennsylvania.
But it will still remain within the same DC to Boston footprint.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then you talked about being sort of an IRR buyer so I am curious in terms of your underwriting what are you thinking about in terms of exit cap rate today are you changing your underwriting assumptions at all given some of the volatility that we’re seeing with interest rates here.
And also you mentioned that you’re in conversations on some of these transactions with sellers about issuing OP units how sensitive are sellers to the stock price today? It's a two part.
So let me answer each one separately.
In terms of how we underwrite of course we’re always more conservative on the exit cap rate and certainly the reason why we do that is because we realize that we don't know where cap rates are going to be in and so just to be conservative we assume cap rates will widen.
So cap rates will be higher on the exit than they are going in and we do that irrespective of the interest rate environment because again we just don't know where cap rates will be and it’s just a matter of being conservative and that’s something we will continue to do.
In terms of the OP unit sellers appeal of owning Cedar's OP units is really a few fold one of them is of course the tax benefits of owning OP units but in the case of Cedar in particular where we have seen consistently with sellers with whom we either have transacted or well potentially transacted they are excited about what we’re doing at Cedar.
And so they see an opportunity to get our stock at their NAV right they are selling us the asset their shopping center added value but then they see the opportunity to get in depreciation and the consideration by virtue of being in the form of Cedar stock or more specifically in the form of OP units because of the fact that they see what we're doing at Cedar is being something that is going to lead to appreciation in value over time.
And so they like the idea of the tax deferral and they also like the idea of partnering so to speak with the management team that is oriented in a manner that aligns well with shareholders where they think that there is going to be an appreciation of the value of those OP units over time.
And we don’t really get lost too much in negotiations over near term movements in the share price but again we don’t know where prices are going to go.
So I don’t know if it will be thinking about it differently in the weeks and months to come.
All right that's helpful.
And then just last question I was just looking in the supplement at the two acquisitions in the quarter.
I don't know if - on Page 3 it looks like you have Lawndale Plaza being acquired on January 23 and I think the dates are flip flopped later in the supplement in the acquisition schedule.
Which one - which property was acquired which date January 23 and then February 27? Lawndale was acquired first Todd.
Okay.
The remaining interest in New London was acquired second.
All right so Page 3 is correct.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Todd.
Our next question is from Collin Mings of Raymond James.
Hi good afternoon.
I guess first just can you just update on the yields you generally targeting on some of the redevelopment projects you spoke about.
And then has that threshold as you look at potential other redevelopment projects has that threshold come down at all over the last six 12 months just given some of the competition that you’re seeing as it relates to just the overall acquisition environment? So the way we think about yields is really [indiscernible] on the smaller deals that you have actually publicly discussed and disclosed generally speaking we are underwriting those to yields in the double digits so north of 10%.
Some of the larger redevelopment projects that we’ve been working on - frankly we have not yet publicly disclosed that would be larger are being underwritten into the higher single digits but we are not seeing realistically hovering again into the double-digits on those deals but again very very attractive unlevered IRRs relative to either the cost of capital at Cedar or the cap rates at which those assets will be value either today or in the future.
And that’s generally speaking how we’re thinking about it.
In terms of competition for assets as it relates to the unlevered IRRs which we are underwriting the redevelopment projects I guess we think about that in terms of what the value of the asset will be in the future but we take a pretty conservative view and so movement in cap rates which of course the function of the competition for some of these assets that we’re seeing today isn't really informing the underwriting that we are using and thinking about exit cap rates 10 years from now.
Okay.
So those are not like a specific spread threshold that you necessarily targeting between redevelopment acquisitions? No we think about it in terms of achieving an adequate spread to our cost of capital and so we don't - cost of capital too dramatically based on things like cap rates and interest rates we try to take a longer view and so generally speaking movements short term movements in cap rates or interest rates aren’t really impacting and causing us to get more aggressive in how we underwrite things.
Okay.
And I think just on the redevelopment front last quarter you suggested spending somewhere around $20 million for the year I think in the prepared remarks you were talking a few million dollars a quarter should we still be thinking about $20 million of total redevelopment spend this year? So what we have said is that - on average we expect to spend $20 million a year that's not to say that every year we are going to spend $20 million but on average we will spend $20 million.
So that $20 million is made up of these smaller $2 million to $5 million investments in the number of redevelopment projects that we expect to kick-off in the foreseeable future that are in the many tens and millions of dollars and on average that will get us to about $20 million a year again on average.
Okay.
And then I think in last couple of quarters you suggested maybe targeting around $100 million of dispositions this year.
Can you just update us on that front again it sounds like there is pretty strong bid out there for assets but just maybe update us how that is progressing? Sure.
So again the way to think about it and it really is the simplest we are describing it but we literally just try to sell the same amount from a dollar value perspective of asset that we are buying.
So for example last year we bought Quartermaster Plaza for call it $93 million and change and we sold eight assets for an aggregate value of $95 million.
So as we tally up what we are buying this year will be pretty much back into what we’ll be selling we will probably try to sell similar value in terms of assets.
Okay.
And then just last one from me.
Just as it relates the whole acquisition discussion potential opportunities to buy some anchored space maybe where that tenant was paying but the space is vacant something I know that you talked about in the past any update on opportunities on that specific front? The answer is there are updates unfortunately we can't share them publicly right now but I think you could expect that that would be a topic of discussion in the coming quarters.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from RJ Milligan from Robert Baird.
Hi good evening guys.
Just wanted to follow up on sort of the how you think about financing the acquisitions obviously trying to match those with dispositions the idea of issuing units as well.
Curious if raising equity additional equity here given where the stock price is if that is also an option or if you would only look to match fund that with dispositions or unit deals? Realistically in the foreseeable future I would tell you that we are unlikely to do an equity offering publicly - public equity offering to raise capital to do these deals.
The OP unit deals are separate topic obviously that is the same - virtually the same thing as doing an equity offering.
We think about it a little bit differently in the sense that it is of course an inducement to get something to transact with us.
They are typically get to being much longer term shareholders and of course we are selling our stock in that instance on an undiscounted basis since there is a slight benefit there.
But more generally we are thinking about as we describe capitalizing our assets on a long term basis with the capital and the value that's embedded in our existing assets.
So we think that's probably at least for the near term how we are going to be financing ourselves.
Okay.
Would you be open to - I know you had answered Collin's question that you are looking at match funded but given the demand that's out there that's still not adequate enough for you to think about disposing properties even if you don’t necessarily have a use of those proceeds.
Realistically RJ of course never say never but realistically that’s not going to be how we finance ourselves as we described in the past - again this is very simple but this is really how we approach it which is we typically acquire assets as we close on those assets we start the process of identifying asset divest and then we start to process divesting those assets and in the interim we capitalize those acquisitions on our line generally.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back to Bruce Schanzer for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us this evening.
We look forward to continuing sharing our excitement regarding what we are doing to create shareholder value at Cedar when we see many of you in a few week at RECon in Las Vegas and then at NAREIT in New York.
Have a good night.
This concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time all audience lines have been placed on mute.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session following the formal presentation.
I’d now turn the call over to Nicholas Partenza.
Please proceed.
Good evening and thank you for joining us in the second quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today’s call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer; Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Due to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the company’s most recent Form 10-K and other periodic filings with the SEC forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this call August 6 2015 and the company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar’s earnings press release posted on its website for reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Thanks Nick.
Good evening and thank you for joining us on Cedar’s second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Notably having started with Philip Mays our CFO during the second quarter of 2011 this call represents the fourth anniversary of having – joined Cedar which commence the period of reinvention and renewal for this very special organization.
Although I feel great about all the teams Cedar has accomplished over the past four years we have most of the marathon yet to run.
Accordingly on this call I will spend a few minutes on the ground we have covered and then turn to the road ahead.
Before doing so I would like to acknowledge my senior executive colleagues who partner with me and challenge me everyday mainly Phil Mays; Nancy Mozzachio our COO; Mike Winters our CIO; Lori Manzo our Head of Leasing; Charles Burkert our Head of Construction and Development; and Adina Storch our General Counsel.
I addition I would like to thank all the members of team Cedar from members of our board of directors to members of our maintenance crews for their enduring commitment to everyday excellence.
A relatively small company like ours with ambitions of being among the leading shopping center REITs we’ll only get there through the collective effort of this very special group of people.
The second quarter continues to out process of steady improvement.
Our operating FFO of $0.14 per share was generally as expected and allowed us to raise low end of our full year guidance.
Our same-store NOI growth including redevelopment up 3.2% for the quarter and 2.9% for the first half are both slightly ahead of expectations though I would note that because of our relatively small same-store pool of growth in any one quarter is not terribly instructive as it can and will vary from period to period.
That said I expect our rate of same-store growth will continue to improve in the coming years as we execute our capital migration strategy.
In a similar vein we continue to chip away at our leverage ending the quarter at 7.1 times on a debt-to-adjusted EBITDA basis.
This is the lowest quarter and leverage level since I’ve been at Cedar and is consistent with our objective of working down our leverage in a systematic manner without earnings or NAV dilution.
I would caution however that our leverage can and will move around from quarter-to-quarter depending on the timing of acquisition and disposition closings.
Turning to capital migration we continue to work through our pipeline of rough market acquisition opportunities and our confident that there will be solid acquisitions to announce in the coming months which will largely be funded with disposition proceeds.
However during the quarter we did not close on any acquisitions and had one small disposition Kenley Village close as well as another small disposition subsequent to the quarter end.
In total for the year we have sold three small centers for aggregate proceeds of roughly $6 million.
This is admittedly modest even for a company of Cedar’s size.
These assets were as you would imagine prime disposition candidates considering their respective values.
Average base rents for these three centers were less than $5 per square foot with average three mile population densities of under 30 000 people.
Accordingly by selling them we achieved what I call an addition by subtraction and as much as our portfolio quality improved with their removal obviously there were also management distractions that we are better off without.
By comparison our one outright acquisition this year Lawndale Plaza had an average base rent of over $18 per square foot and three mile population density of almost 370 000 people.
As we continue to focus our capital migration efforts on open air shopping centers and high density submarkets within our DC to Boston footprint we are endeavoring to build a unique shopping center REIT portfolio.
One interesting idea that is worth highlighting is the high degree of affluence within the high density populations that surround our urban centers.
As any of you who follow the strip center space has become acutely aware there is a keen focus on certain submarkets within our geographic footprint because of their highly affluent populations.
These submarkets are often called Superzips.
As we at Cedar have got deeper into the household income characteristics of the high density shopping centers we now own or that in our acquisition pipeline we have been pleased to learn that although the percentage of the population that is affluent is lower than it such Superzips [indiscernible] and Potomac Maryland Greenwich Connecticut or Short Hills New Jersey.
The nominal number of affluent households within the three mile radius of our centers generally equals or exceeds the number of affluent households within the similar radius within these Superzips.
In other words our critical quality of certain of our assets to with the affluence of the local population is obscured by the shared size and diversity of the local population surrounding our centers.
We think this quality is under appreciated.
Before handing the time off to Nancy to discus our redevelopment and leasing activity I would conclude with a comment on Cedar’s share price.
As an active buyer and seller of shopping centers in our core markets one thing of which I’d become acutely aware is the following disconnects between public and private market valuations.
Although we are fortunate not to require our stock as a source of capital to execute our business strategy it is noteworthy that the implied cap rate at which our entire company trades in the public markets approximates the cap rate at which some of our bottom quartile assets would sell privately.
This has resulted in our prevailing share price trading at a pronounced discount to our net asset value per share.
This valuation disconnect is something of which we are mindful as we patiently execute our five part strategic plan for creating value that starts with a commitment to our Washington DC to Boston grocery-anchored portfolio.
It continues with a focus on leasing and operations value add redevelopment capital migration and conservative balance sheet management.
I believe as we continue executing our strategic plan to discount at which our share price trades relative to our NAV will be eliminated.
I often joke with my colleagues the tier is boring by design.
What I mean is that every quarter you hear us describe the same long-term strategic plan and every quarter we make a little bit more progress in executing this plan whether it would be the increased NOI growth rate of our ever improving portfolio the continued leverage reduction of our balance sheet or in the case of this quarter or both.
My hope and expectation is that this focus and commitment will be what eventually results and Cedar being considered among the best shopping center REITs as we celebrate additional anniversaries by our management team in the patience quarter over quarter execution of our long-term strategic plan.
With that I give to Nancy.
Thank you Bruce.
Operating fundamentals for the quarter evidenced Cedar’s tactical focus on small shop and junior anchor lease shop as well as progress on our new ground-up pad projects.
For the second quarter of 2015 we completed 15 new leases representing 67 600 square feet with average first year base rents of $12.36 per square foot and comparable tax spread of 9.8%.
We renewed 29 leases representing 114 500 square foot with average first year base rent of $ 19.50 per square foot and 7.2% cash spread and no tenant improvement dollars.
To date we have completed approximately 70% of square footage expiring in all of 2015.
In addition our leasing team has completed approximately 15% of 2016 expiration.
Notably small shop occupancy now stands at 83.3% for a 115 basis point increase year-over-year.
As discussed on previous calls with small shop occupancy hovering around 83% we have the opportunity for occupancy gains in this segment of our portfolio.
As we start to see green suite to emerge in the broader economy we are seeing greater momentum and demand from small shop tenants.
Junior anchor activities during the quarter was solid with the execution of our second home goods store in 2015.
Home goods will occupy approximately 31 000 square feet at Colonial common shopping center in Harrisburg Pennsylvania and we will open in Late fall.
We have systematically upgraded Colonial Common tenancies and rent over the last few years with commitments from Ulta Old Navy [indiscernible].
Home goods joins a solid bench of retailers at this asset which in turn should help us to drive new and renewal rent more generally.
With the execution of home goods to Colonial Commons and Trexler Mall we are now 96% leased and 97% leased respectively.
Importantly the opening of home goods at Trexler Mall signifies the completion of re-tenanting of a former giant super market box at 50% above expiring joint rents.
In addition post-quarter we delivered a possession to grocery-outlet at our Fairview Commons property.
This important tenancy will likely drive significant daily shopper traffic to the shopping center when open in the fourth quarter while increasing occupancy by a remarkable 20%.
As a matter of practice we are constantly mining a portfolio for improvements and upgrades in rent and tenant quality particularly in the junior anchor and anchor space because these tenants typically drive small shop tenancies and occupancy gain.
In the second half of the year we expect to take back two anchored spaces and meaningfully re-tenant the anchors at Webster – in Webster Plaza and the common into Boyers Pennsylvania.
This will cause a temporary decrease in occupancy.
However expiring rents are below market providing attractive opportunities for rent gains at replacement tenant build out space and open in this 2016.
We also vigorously strive to identify value-add opportunities within our portfolio adding pad sites to centers with a lower risk high returning use of capital to drive incremental cash flow from our asset.
Construction of our pad development at Trexlertown Plaza is well underway.
The project is 50% leased with a balance of the square footage in active LOI negotiations and deliveries provided for the third quarter of this year.
This project once completed will yield double-digit return.
Additionally we are in the permitting process for pad at Upland Square that will have few high quality tenants.
We expect delivery to tenants in the first quarter of next year.
This project once completed will also yield double-digit return.
Now touching on our redevelopment pipeline.
Our team continues to work hard and diligently drive ahead on projects.
One example of the redevelopment that we are pursuing in Groton Connecticut.
The assets built approximately 50 years ago will undergo major renovation and upgrades while adding a grocery component to the tenant rents.
Construction is expected to commence in early 2016 with rents coming online in the back half of that year.
This project once completed is projected to deliver an un-levered IRR of between 9% to 10%.
We are excited about our progress on plan for various assets and expect to have more news on these projects in the upcoming quarters.
With that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy.
On this call I will discuss our second quarter operating results and provide update on our balance sheet and 2015 guidance starting with the operating results.
Operating FFO was $0.14 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2015 which is $0.01 per share higher than the first quarter of 2015 and consistent with the second quarter of last year.
While earnings consistent with a year ago may not initially sound interesting please note that over the last year our adjusted EBITDA has decrease from 7.7 times to 7.1 time and the quality of our portfolio has improved as evidenced by an increase in both three mile population density and ABR per square foot.
With this backdrop of an improved balance sheet and portfolio we are pleased with our operating results.
Additionally these results are consistent with the strategic plan we have been discussing over the last couple of years and with the guidance communicated at the beginning of this year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Last quarter I discussed the $100 million of unsecured term loans we closed in February effectively pre-fund $100 million of mortgages maturing in 2015.
As a reminder these unsecured term loans consists of $50 million five year term loan and $50 million seven year term loan.
We fully borrowed the five year term loan at closing and just brought down that proceeds from the seven year term loan in June.
With which we repaid all outstanding amounts under our line of credit.
Accordingly the remaining $70 million of mortgages maturing over the second half of 2015 are being rolled to our line of credit.
They are leading us with around $200 million of available borrowing capacity.
Notably after repaying these remain mortgages almost 70% of our property NOI will be unencumbered.
This is a significant transformation from a company that we relied exclusively on secured debt just four years ago and going forward it will provide increased financing and operating flexibility.
And lastly guidance.
With half of the year completed we are raising the low end of our full year 2015 operating FFO guidance an updated range of $0.52 to $0.54 per diluted share.
At this time no acquisitions are included in our guidance range.
It does not mean that we will not acquire any assets prior to the end of the year.
However as our acquisition pipeline consists solely of off market acquisition that perceived at a hard to predict pace we will just update our guidance each quarter based on closed transactions.
With that I’ll open the call to questions.
Thank you.
At this time we’ll now be conducting the question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of RJ Milligan with Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Hi RJ.
Hi RJ.
So Bruce you were talking about the big dislocation in the public and private market pricing which we would agree.
At what point do you think that buying your stock back become attractive? Is there a spread between what you think the appropriate cap rate is and where your stock trading? Where shrinking the company which still be appropriate given that it would be more attractive to buyback stock or just buying properties? It’s a great question RJ.
The answer is not so simple.
We do a fair amount of analysis around this so it’s certainly something that we look at.
The reason why it’s not so simple frankly is because some of the things that you touched on in your question such as being cognizant of the size of the company and maintaining because we’re relatively small sized company and appropriate enterprise value for the platform that we have to make sure that we’re running efficiently.
But just moving beyond that with some of the math we think about buyback our stock we think about in the context of our investments alternatives.
And of course we look at buying back stock which arguably that it discounts NAV versus say buying another asset or taking our free cash flow and investing it into an opportunity to grow the value of one of our assets.
And so ignoring the opportunity to invest outside of our portfolio and just thinking about buying back stock versus making an investment back into one of our centers that generates a higher return.
Realistically we would probably do that before we would buyback our stock.
And so I think that realistically we’re not going to buyback our stock but if you ever want to know what I think about the value of our stock just look at Form 4 filings I take my own money and buyback our – and buy our stock all the time because I do believe that it’s a terrific value.
I just think when we think about using Cedar’s free cash flow the evaluation is a little more complicated.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And putting on your former banker hats can you talk about what – if any there is interest from private equity for the types of assets that you guys have in your portfolio or maybe even though lower to your assets that you guys are looking to dispose of over the next couple of years? We have found there to be a very deep pool of investors for our assets as you know having been with us right from the beginning RJ the asset quality has dramatically improved so it constitutes the lower half of our portfolio.
Today it is dramatically different than what constituted to lower half of our portfolio when we first started the process of improving the company.
When we first started the process of improving the company there was a very deep pool of investors for what we’re admittedly lower quality assets.
What we find today is that the people who are buying our assets are generally speaking REITs much like Cedar but who aren’t as focused on the types of metrics and relative asset quality objectives that we have in improving our portfolio.
So very often we’re selling to either non-traded REITs or REITs who are willing to own some of the assets we’re selling that are relatively high quality assets [indiscernible] being equal but just don’t worth well for a company like ours where we’re aspired to have truly a top tier portfolio.
Okay.
And then my last question is about small shop occupancy at about 83%.
We’ve seen improved strength in the small shop demands from tenants.
Curious where you think you can bring that maybe over the next two years and maybe a question for Phil what does that equates to in terms of NOI? Why don’t I touch on the first one and may be I’ll let Nancy to chime in on that as well and then Phil can weigh in on what that does from an earnings perspective.
We love to bring out the portfolio broadly speaking is in that kind of 92% to 93% occupied neighborhood and we would love to get that call at 95%-ish most of that would come from this small shop side of things and to achieve that we would probably pick up a little bit of large shops occupancy but realistically we’ll probably get our 83% to – the higher 80s of course 87% or 88%.
And I think that considering our track record during the last cycle and recovery space I don’t think that’s an unreasonable expectation.
Just to teed up for Phil like that would – we invest to call roughly $2.5 million square feet; he would be talking about roughly 125 000 square feet of incremental space being filled.
So unless if you want to do that math but it’s actually probably $20 a foot on a 125 000 square feet.
Yes if you look at in the supplement the in-place in all shops RJ are a little north of 18% and actually we’ve been rolling those up around 8% each quarter.
So you know you would be talking a higher-end maybe closer to $20 on that square footage.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
You got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi.
I guess the first question is maybe can you just provide us a little bit more color on where the acquisition pipeline stands and maybe to what extent it’s evolved over the last couple of quarters.
I know I mean – I think last call kind of putting the benchmark maybe thinking around a 100 to 150 for the full year.
It sounds like may be that’s just giving us the timing of some of the off market metrics going after that maybe pushed out may be into early 2016 now but just kind of curious how you’re thinking about that pipeline? So the pipeline hasn’t really changed from where it was when we last spoke and we continue to be very excited about it in terms of the quality of assets and the number of assets we have identified.
It’s probably somewhere between 10 and 15 assets that there we’re actively underwriting right now but we’re relatively small company and we try to do things patiently and in a conservative manner.
So we’re not biting off more than we can chew.
You’re right that considering where we are in the year and considering where we are in terms of our diligence process on the assets.
We alluded to on our last call there is a chance that we don’t get up to 150 million but I would be surprised if we don’t get at least a couple of deals done before the end of the year which would get us over a $100 million.
So again we still very good about every thing the luxury and one of the ways that we add value through sourcing off market deals is that we have the opportunity to carefully and patiently work these assets make sure that we understand what we were buying before we buy it which in turn allow us to not only hopefully get slightly more attractive returns on the but also be more assured of achieving those returns through the very careful diligence process that we undertake when buying these deals.
So again it takes a little bit longer these aren’t marketed processes with specific times for a specific milestones in terms of buying an asset but at the same time we end up with a more well underwritten acquisition that we’re more sure of achieving the returns on.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just – just in the context of the recent merger announcement can you update us on how you are thinking about earlier your collective exposure to Giant Stop &amp; Shop and Food Lion right now and any sense on it if any of your properties could be impacted from this merger? Great question.
Why don’t we break that up I’ll let Nancy to talk about whether she thinks any of our assets in particular will be impacted.
I could tell you that broadly speaking it’s really a double edged sword.
On the one hand our hold is a terrific operator on the margin a better operator than Delhaize.
Our hold has much much better balance sheet than Delhaize dose.
So in the near-term it’s a good thing because although we have slightly more exposure in that dramatically more exposure and we have exposure to when you take both all the data put together so now we have – now where Delhaize banners are a part of our family that has a better balance sheet and that is overall better operator.
That said as a company we’ve been trying to reduce our exposure to single credits and certainly despite are being comfortable with our hold in the near term.
We’re very mindful of that concentration and overtime you will see us reducing our exposure to what is now four banners verus what was two banners.
And Nancy maybe you might want to take a minute just to talk a little bit about our specific assets and whether we’re worried about [indiscernible] or anything like that? So we have – currently we have 21 anchor spaces that are part of the combined banner so it’s our hold and Delhaize a handful of Food Lions towards.
We don’t really see any concern in our Food Lions stores.
We thought our comprehensive review and taken the competitive source out to quite a sizable radio.
With regard to our hold in Giant and Stop &amp; Shop maybe a few here and there truthfully but nothing to really cause concern in most cases what we find is they maybe have a use that is roughly three miles away.
And most of us know when you’re in the grocery anchored business three miles is really nothing.
In many cases you can have the same banners three miles away and have two productive stores.
So we’re not very concerned there.
On the Delhaize side there is a Hannaford location that has two Stop &amp; Shop locations that surrounded.
Again Hannaford has a little bit of a different customer base and they differentiate themselves from Stop &amp; Shop that currently competing with them.
So – and something we will keep our eye on but from a competitive standing let’s say we’re probably okay.
Okay that’s very helpful.
Thanks for all the details there.
Really just one last one from me it’s more of a housekeeping questions.
Just as I think about I think now – in addition – with the addition of the properties sold subsequent to the end of the quarter I think you had $6 million of dispositions for the year.
What type of cap rate as far as – are you looking at on kind of what you realized on those sales? We didn’t even know where to begin.
Those are real tag of assets that probably high single digits I would guess.
Okay.
And it’s literally not instructive of anything one of them was K-Mart that you know was more of redevelopment play there really is – it’s not cap rate isn’t the best way to think about any of those assets.
Okay fair enough.
I guess – and then well I guess you thought on the disposition front just going back to the fact of maybe some of the acquisition pipeline being put – is there any way we should think about the dispositions over the remainder of the year just in context of you guys willing to be somewhat match funded and how you look at the timing of those sales? Yes I would say the only thing I guided to Collin is that whereas in the past maybe we would let ourselves to have a little bit more time with the purchase being on the line before it paid down the line with the dispositions.
I think I am pushing Mike and his team to try and get a little bit closer from a matching funding perspective just so that we don’t expose ourselves to too long with period where we were mismatched between assets being long and liabilities being too short.
Okay great.
Good luck during the quarter guys.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Bruce back to the comments around the disconnect between your stock in the public market and private market valuations.
How does that play into your decision making? Does it cause you to pause on certain acquisition opportunities that you might be looking at and maybe execute a little differently in any way as you think about return hurdles or allocating capital at all? Not really and I’ll tell you why.
It does obviously factor into how we think about the company generally but it doesn’t really factor into how we think about the process that we’ve undertaken in terms of this capital migration strategy that we speak of.
And the reason is because what we’re doing is we’re selling assets and buying assets in a similar market environment where we’re not doing anything that really impacts our NAV per se right now that – which we’re selling assets arguably at NAV to buy assets add NAV we’re selling assets that we think won’t grow as well as the assets we’re buying and we think that for a lot of reasons our portfolio and our company will be better off having the assets we’re buying and we’ll also better off not having the assets that we’re selling.
Obviously when we look at where our share price is we have to mindful of two things.
Right we have to mindful of what that says about our cost of capital and obviously if over a long period of time that was where our share price settles we would have to rethink what our reference price is for purpose of things like our – the unlevered IRR which we underwrite our acquisition all right.
So again that is one place where we potentially think about our share price in evaluating investments.
Another is that obviously the market could be wrong for a week or a month but long period of time to be obviously the market probably won’t be wrong.
So if we see our share price settling at a point at which we’re commenced to discount NAV.
We’re going to have to think about what the market is saying either A) about Cedar or B) about where real estate prices are likely to go.
And so that in turn might impact our investments analysis and how we think they allocating capital.
But in terms of today it has much more to do with our executing our capital migration strategy and then – we think about share price at all it really have to do with just what this is doing to our weighted average cost of capital.
Okay it’s helpful.
And then just for Phil a couple of balance sheet questions here.
The $50 million floating rate term loan that that was drawn down earlier in the year.
Any plans to swop that to fix or do you plan what that flows? Yes so we swop both of them in the fix beginning July 1st.
And so on the debt page the rates that are disclosed as of June 30 there is a footnote that actually – that either the swop rates beginning July 1st and going forward.
And I will just give you the rates.
I believe it’s 2.8% for the $50 million five year and 3.3% for the 50 year – for the $50 million seven year.
Okay.
And then the two October maturities that you spoke about have those been paid down on the line already or when are those open for prepayment? Yes I think this week they will be prepaid or paid off early.
Okay.
All right great thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Kucera with Wunderlich.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes hi guys.
I appreciate the color on the capital recycling and it sounds like the sales you’ve had year-to-date are not really indicative of a reasonable cap rate to think about as far as the spread between what you’re buying and selling but are you still thinking that as you attempt to match fund it should be somewhere in the 200 basis point range.
Yes probably less than that.
Got it.
I would say it’s probably less than 150...
Okay.
And looking back the Quartermaster Plaza which obviously was a big acquisition last year that’s now annualized.
I think at the time of the acquisition or at least the quarter after occupancy was about 98% or at just under 14 and you pushed rent nicely to about [indiscernible] there and your occupancy is at 93%.
Do you think that market can handle do you think you can bring that asset closer to 97% 98% and can you maintain kind of your rent where you’re at right now or is that sort of kind of a balancing act? I will let Nancy to expand on that.
I could tell you that most of the movements in occupancy there have been one particular tenant that moved out that had a rent that was below the average for the center.
We think that there is probably 30-ish percent upside between the rent of that tenant was paying and where we could probably re-lease that space.
And so we feel pretty good about being able to push the rent in that space and what that would do the occupancy.
I don’t know is there anything else in that center that’s particularly large and we’re… No I think we – since repurchase the center [indiscernible] about 10 000 square feet I am going to say.
So we’ve taken a step back when we – when we first bought the center and well before of course are in due diligence.
We identified the spaces that we thought were lower market this the tenant that Bruce is referring to would knew is below market probably lower quality tenants that we would want to have in this particular asset.
And we’re trying to be mindful of the fact that we have an asset across the street.
And so as we’re looking sort of more generally of tenanting both assets we’re trying to create the strongest tenant mix.
So we don’t want to just plug-in tenant simply for specific rents.
We wanted tenant to be able to do quality sales and pay the rents.
And so we have to be mindful that tenants who are across the street as well.
So this particular tenants [indiscernible] does not compete with the tenant across the street so we expect very strong sales there.
We’re able to drive very strong rents.
And we expect that the anchored space that Bruce is referring to 25 000 square feet or so that we will be able to better the rent and certainly off the quality and traffic that would be associated with that kind of thing.
Okay great thanks.
Sure.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] There are no questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us this evening.
Our best wishes to you all for an enjoyable rest of the summer.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time all audience lines have been placed on mute.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session following the formal presentation.
And I will now turn the call over to Nicholas Partenza.
Please proceed.
Good evening and thank you for joining us for the third quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer; Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer; and Nancy Mozzachio Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the Company's most recent Form 10-K for the year ended 2014 as updated by our subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other periodic filings with the SEC.
As a reminder the forward-looking statements speak only of as of the date of this call November 5 2015 and the Company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar's earnings press release and supplemental financial information posted on its website for reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Thanks Nick.
Good evening and welcome to the third quarter 2015 earnings call for Cedar Realty Trust.
This call marks the fourth anniversary of the introduction of the new Cedar which was rolled out on our third quarter 2011 earnings call.
Since that seminal event we have generated among the highest total shareholder returns of any shopping center REIT.
This strong performance over the past four years is a credit to all of the members of team Cedar each of whom has committed her or himself to everyday excellence.
This is especially true of our senior management team who all are with me this evening Phil Mays our CFO; Nancy Mozzachio our COO; Michael Winters our CIO; Charles Burkert our Head of Construction; Lori Manzo our Head of Leasing; and Adina Storch our General Counsel.
On my first day at Cedar in June of 2011 I gave a presentation to my new colleagues.
I showed them a slide that ranked all the shopping center REITs by total shareholder return since 2003 the year of Cedar's IPO.
Cedar was among the worst performing shopping center REITs by that measure.
I then showed them a slide with the Major League Baseball standings.
The Mets my favorite baseball team were similarly situated towards the bottom of the National League rankings.
I showed these two sets of rankings to make the following point.
The Mets they were at the bottom of the standings for a Major League team.
They were expected to compete with other teams that might have had larger payrolls or better players.
The team's fans myself included rightfully expected that the players and management of the Mets would dedicate themselves to improving the team in order to better their performance and hopefully climb up the rankings.
Cedar's situation was very similar.
I said to my new colleagues Cedar is playing in the major leagues of shopping center REITs.
We might be among the smaller RETIs but our shareholders rightfully measure our performance against all of our shopping center REIT peers.
It is not an acceptable excuse that they are bigger or have longer operating histories.
We have to commit ourselves every day to climbing the rankings in order to eventually be counted among the best shopping center REITs.
Of course this was an audacious statement to make on the very first day at this new Company.
Looking back over four years later I'm very proud of what Team Cedar has done.
Although a season in the real estate business is much longer than the April to October baseball season much like the Mets who are now among the best teams in baseball I see Cedar charting a similar course in the major leagues of shopping center REITs as evidenced by our strong performance over this four-year period.
Like the Mets however we still have not fulfilled our potential which in the case of Cedar means continuing to address the ongoing disconnect between our share price and our net asset value.
Our game plan for achieving our long-term objective of eventually being considered among the best shopping center REITs is to execute our five-part strategy that begins with a focus on grocery-anchored shopping centers between Washington DC and Boston.
We maximize the value of our assets through leasing and operations.
We grow value through redevelopment and value-add investing.
We actively manage our portfolio by migrating capital into higher value submarkets within our geographic footprint.
And we endeavor to manage our balance sheet to minimize leverage while growing our earnings and maximizing our investment flexibility.
Nancy will touch on some of what we're doing on the leasing and redevelopment fronts while Phil will discuss our earnings and balance sheet.
Before they do so I would like to take a few moments to give you a sense of what we're doing at a slightly higher level in terms of both leasing and redevelopment as well as review some of our capital migration progress.
Leasing results this quarter were solid with leased occupancy up slightly year-over-year and same-store cash NOI including redevelopments coming in at 3.1%.
There will be some pressure on our leasing results as we look into 2016 in terms of a few large shop vacancies that we anticipate.
I will let Nancy discuss in more detail our efforts to re-tenant those spaces with upgraded tenancies at what we hope will be meaningfully improved rents.
On the redevelopment front we continue to make progress in advancing both our larger and smaller redevelopment projects.
As previously described we have a significant pipeline of smaller scale projects such as the addition of outparcels and minor center reconfigurations that typically cost $5 million or less as well as two contemplated larger scale redevelopments that are coming together well.
2016 we hope to be in a position to discuss at least one if not both of these projects with greater specificity.
During our second quarter 2015 call we discussed our acquisition strategy through year-end and how we have modified our posture towards the timing of divestitures to fund the new acquisitions.
I am pleased to report that since our last call we have placed two high-quality assets under contract that aggregate roughly $60 million.
So our total for 2015 of assets acquired or placed under contract will exceed at least $110 million though the transactions might not close until early next year.
Those assets are in desirable Washington DC submarket and one in particular had substantial redevelopment potential which makes it especially compelling.
I look forward to describing these centers in greater detail after we have closed which we expect to be before our fourth quarter earnings call.
Notably we have adjusted the timing of our dispositions relative to our acquisitions in order to reduce our exposure to potential rate changes that could impact relative asset pricing.
In the past we have closed on acquisitions using our line of credit and then subsequently paid down the line with the proceeds of asset sales.
This round trip has generally taken anywhere from six months to nine months.
With the prevailing uncertainty around interest rates and the likelihood of an increase in the coming months we decided to bring our dispositions to market concurrently with finalizing the acquisitions I just mentioned and while we continue to underwrite certain additional purchases in order to ensure that our cost of capital is ascertained.
Accordingly there is a possibility we will find ourselves in early 2016 in a net short position whereby the proceeds of our divestitures will have exceeded the capital required to fund our closed acquisitions and we'll be sitting on cash until it is deployed.
Although this is a high-class problem to have serving to both de-risk our balance sheet and enhance our investment strategy over the medium to long term it might weigh on our near-term earnings while we identify and close on additional acquisitions that fit with Cedar's long-term strategic objectives.
In closing I will avoid any further baseball metaphors in handing the call up to Nancy other than to comment that she represents one of the aces in the Cedar management team bullpen.
With that I give you Nancy.
Thank you Bruce.
Leasing and operating results for the third quarter evidenced strong new and renewal activity from the leasing team and solid expense control from the operating team.
We began the year with a particular focus on rent growth and operating efficiencies.
And while the year is not yet complete these efforts help push same-property NOI growth to 3.1% for the quarter.
New lease activity for the quarter yielded 38 600 square feet as compared to 26 800 square feet in the third quarter of 2014 representing a 40% jump in activity as compared to the same quarter of last year.
Our portfolio ABR or average base rent is now over $13 per square foot.
Notably a renewed lease Cedar entered into in the third quarter of 2015 contained escalators with over 70% of that number containing annual escalators.
Renewal activity was solid with 20 transactions representing approximately 115 000 square feet at approximately 9% cash spread.
Over 50% of these renewals including options contained escalators of which over 45% included annual escalators.
Leased occupancy rose quarter-over-quarter by 10 basis points and 20 basis points year-over-year.
Ramping up the quarter the spread between physical and leased is now approximately 120 basis points representing about $1.3 million in incremental annual base rent on a cash basis.
This spread is largely driven by one of the two Home Goods deals we completed earlier in the year.
We have since delivered this space the Home Goods.
Notably Home Goods in both Colonial Commons and Trexler Mall recently opened and are reportedly experiencing high sales volume.
While the leasing team is making good progress it is important to note that certain lease expirations occurring in the fourth quarter of this year will cause us to take back up to four sizable boxes introducing approximately 200 000 square feet of new vacancy.
These four boxes individually and collectively contain tenants paying below market rents with the weighted average of $7.50 per square foot.
Therefore if we're able to re-tenant at prevailing market rents this could yield meaningful rent spread in the latter half of 2016 and beyond.
We have identified a number of tenants for these bases and are working through LOIs which if completed will likely contribute to revenue in the second half of next year.
On the redevelopment front we are happy to announce we delivered spaces to tenants in the third quarter within our Trexlertown pad project building is now 70% leased.
We expect these tenants to begin paying rents in the first quarter of 2016.
Capital spend is approximately $2.3 million and once fully leased we expect to achieve a 13% return on investment.
We are also under construction in Pottstown Pennsylvania at our Upland Square pad project which will contain [indiscernible] and we anticipate a major coffee retailer.
Once completed in the second quarter of 2016 we expect capital spend to be approximately $1.5 million and achieve a 14% return on the investment.
Subsequent to quarter end we signed a lease with Alby supermarket at our center in Groton Connecticut.
Alby plans to open in the fourth quarter of 2016 and we expect to lease and renew small shop space around Alby at positive rent spreads.
We expect capital spend to be approximately $3 million.
The projected yield on this project is expected to be approximately a 9% return on investment.
We continue to explore the portfolio for inherent value creation opportunities in small redevelopments such as Groton and pad development opportunities such as Trexlertown and Upland and are actively navigating through the process of gearing upward this significant redevelopment for Cedar.
Once these projects ripen we will proudly announce our plan including capital spend timing tenancies and projected returns.
One final note subsequent to the close of the quarter Walgreens announced the acquisition of Rite Aid.
Cedar has eight locations representing three banners within the portfolio.
These banners represent a combined total base rent of 1.8% of the portfolio.
Through our asset management team we will closely monitor the situation however we feel this could be a positive event for Cedar both from a credit upgrade perspective and re-tenanting opportunity.
With that I give you Phil.
Thanks Nancy.
On this call I will discuss our third quarter operating results and provide updates on our balance sheet and earnings guidance.
We are pleased with our operating results for this quarter.
Same-property NOI increased 3.1% including redevelopment and 2.2% excluding redevelopment.
Operating FFO was in line with our expectations at $0.14 per diluted share.
However as I've noted in the past operating results only tell a portion of the progress we are achieving at Cedar.
You also have to consider our portfolio and balance sheet improvements.
Since the beginning of 2014 we have recycled almost $150 million of capital.
As Bruce noted we expect to complete another $50 million in the near term.
This capital migration process of selling profits from our lower quartile and buying any higher quality properties that are in our top quartile initially weighs on operating results.
However we do expect the higher quality of properties we are acquiring to improve and sustain same-property NOI growth over the long term.
Additionally we ended the quarter with net debt to EBITDA of 7 times interest coverage of 3.5 times and fixed charge coverage of 2 times.
This is the lowest debt to EBITDA and the highest coverage ratios we have reported since introducing the new Cedar four years ago.
Further we currently have almost $200 million available on our revolving credit facility no debt maturities until the latter half of 2016 and have now unencumbered approximately 70% of our portfolio NOI.
And lastly guidance.
We are raising the low end of our full year 2015 operating FFO guidance to an updated range of $0.53 to $0.54 per diluted share.
Consistent with the past we will provide initial 2016 earnings guidance on our fourth quarter call.
On that call we will also provide more information about our ongoing acquisition and disposition activities.
With that I will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from RJ Milligan from W.
D.
Baird.
Question on the vacancies the larger vacancies that you're expecting in the fourth quarter can you give any more color as to what type of tenants they are and why you think they're not renewing their lease? Hi RJ it's Nancy.
So just to give you an idea of the four that we mentioned.
So one in particular is in our Trexlertown Plaza project is the Redner's supermarket.
It's an asset where we actually took Giant from the neighboring Trexler Mall project and built them a new store very successful store use that – obviously it was unconventional to have two grocery stores in same center.
So we always plan to take that space back and re-tenant.
So the LOIs that we have in place today are actually representative of two tenants that work well within the tenant mix.
Three years or so ago we actually put a Hobby Lobby into the space so they work well with that tenancy.
So that's one.
The second is in Dubois Pennsylvania Shop 'N Save it's a very weak franchise operator of a super value concept very limited market depth in that particular area and we have a tenant who is already in the market who is looking to expand and grow their very solid sales.
So that's what we expect to occupy that particular unit.
The third is in Webster Massachusetts.
It's a Price Chopper Supermarket.
Price Chopper had an old store what we're doing there is likely splitting up the space into three spaces.
One will most likely be a small format grocer within that particular demographic and the other is a retailer with whom we've done a number of deals over the last couple of years.
The last is center in Long Island Carman's Plaza that has Pathmark obviously it was part of the A&amp;P bankruptcy and we – this is a particular positive event for us to see it is an opportunity to take what we believe is a marginally successful grocery store from when we purchased it and put in a higher volume operator and then tenants – retenant around it also provides us with an opportunity to gain some flexibility in lease terms with we think certain restrictions that may have been under the Pathmark REIT.
And Bruce I was just wondering if you could talk about some of your peers over this earning season have talked about accelerating dispositions given the fact that there's a pretty good appetite out there for some of their assets that they consider as lower growth.
And I'm just curious how you weigh increasing dispositions versus the FFO dilution that you would take? So RJ we're pretty much sticking to our knitting in terms of what our plan is with a slight short bias which might be a little bit consistent with how some other shopping center REITs are approaching it.
Broadly speaking the way we think about our capital migration strategy is that we buy assets and we sell assets to pay for those assets that we buy.
Obviously it's not possible to perfectly match some things but we've had a lot of success getting it pretty darn close.
In the current market environment recognizing that things are pretty well priced but also acknowledging that it's impossible to call the top.
What we have done is started selling assets as I mentioned closer to the time when we've determined that there is an asset that we're going to buy.
So in the instance of the two assets that we're acquiring in DC as we felt pretty sure that we are going to be finalizing those deals we started preparing to divest two assets the value of those two assets will exceed the value of the two assets that we have under contract.
So in that regard the result will be similar to what some of the other REITs are doing the mindset might be a little bit different.
The reason why we decided to sell assets and close proximity to the buyers is more just because in today's interest rate environment recognizing that there is a decent likelihood rates are going to go up it could create some volatility in the cap rate environment.
And as you know we try to be pretty careful in match funding from a cost of capital perspective until we wanted to be sure or at least be more certain that the cost of capital so to speak or the cap rate that we were able to attain on our divestitures would be known as we finalize our purchases.
So that was our rationale.
Again the outcome will be similar to what other REITs are doing but I'm reluctant to call a market top.
I don't think that timing the market is a particularly good strategy.
And so we're trying to be relatively neutral and just match funding our acquisitions with dispositions.
Our next question is from Collin Mings from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
I guess just first following up on one of RJ's questions just I guess for Nancy.
Going back to some of the vacant boxes or the vacancy that's going to come on next year what do you think is the spread right now between kind of what the current rents are to market rent I think you touched on that they're pretty far below market? I'd say again appreciate that they're in varying market.
And we did put a weighted rent together when we prepared the remarks.
I would say it's probably likely to be I'd say 20% typically higher than what we're currently talking about and that's being [indiscernible].
In breaking up boxes of course you have in some instances the smaller the box the higher the per square foot amount we have Atlanta that we'll be looking at and that's [indiscernible] first year.
And then Bruce maybe just talk a little bit more about the kind of the acquisition pipeline.
I think last quarter you've highlighted there was about 10 to 15 assets that you are conducting some level of liabilities on looks like a couple of those are now moving forward.
But just talk a little bit more about that pipeline in general and has that maybe taken a little bit longer than you expected to start the year for some of these deals to materialize? Sure Collin.
So just to give you a feel for – I think one of the things that makes what we're doing at Cedar special is something that I often describe as operating alpha which is really the idea that because we're a platform that's relatively small that's focused on a single asset type that is grocery-anchored shopping centers that's focused on a relatively narrow geography what you might call the New York megalopolis or the DC to Boston corridor and managed by a team that has decades of experience.
We're able to achieve outcomes that maybe other people wouldn't so I'll highlight for example Mike Winters.
Mike's been our Chief Investment Officer.
He's been doing exactly that.
So closing a grocery-anchored shopping centers buying them for 30 years he literally knows every single asset every single owner every single broker in our footprint and because of that we're able to source deals off market that other people simply never know are available.
And also he has developed a great reputation in the market and that [indiscernible] to our benefit.
He has been here for well over a decade and so people are comfortable transacting with us.
A corollary to that is that because they're comfortable transacting with us they give us a little bit of leeway from – in terms of our performing due diligence and so a lot of times we'll be able to perform due diligence for longer than the typical of 60-day due diligence period because they're comfortable that we're just trying to net the sellers that are comfortable that we are trying to nail things down but they were not looking to retrade them.
And so that balance get struck when you have a good reputation and when you have a relationship with sellers that goes back many many years.
So because of that the processes that we undertake take quite a bit longer than your typical marketed process with a relatively tight timeframe and things are just taking longer than one might expect.
But we seem to be ending up as a good place in terms of finalizing the deals that make sense passing on the deals that don't make sense and I would expect that to continue and I hope that it does well into the future.
I guess just maybe as you niggle up the pipeline right now is it – would you say that expanded or has it shrunk a little bit maybe relative to again three months to six months ago? I would say the number of assets is probably similar the composition of the pipeline is different because we actively underwrite deals and there are a lot of deals that we just decide not to do and then there are other deals that come over the transom that we start underwriting.
And so at any given time we're probably looking at between 10 15 deals and we're working on them in some form or fashion and so that the number of deals is probably the same what those – the composition which deals are on that list changes.
And then in terms of a quantum I think the idea of us being able to do at least $100 million a year feels like a good guidepost but some of the deals we look at are quite a bit larger in which case obviously the number would be bigger.
But I would tell you that I'd be surprised if we couldn't do at least $100 million a year of off-market acquisitions.
Just on the assets in the DC submarket too early to kind of give us any sort of color on what type of cap rate we might be looking for on those? Why don't we hold off on that.
Again we're very disciplined in our underwriting.
So we're not just aggressively buying assets that are very richly priced.
So we think we've done a good job of underwriting these deals and we will be very happy to talk about them when they close but I'm reluctant to do so before we close on them.
And then one other kind of bigger picture question as it relates to the pipeline for me is just that you mentioned one of the assets that you're moving forward with is more of a redevelopment opportunity.
Just as you think about what's going through your pipeline right now what would be the mix of assets where you've seen kind of – as you characterize it more of redevelopment opportunity? What I would tell you Collin is that we're very careful about not being too long redevelopment at any given time.
I think our thought process is that we wanted to be a relatively conservative proportion of our overall asset base.
And so the way redevelopment work is that it takes a long time to get them teed up to the point where it actually spending meaningful dollars and that's certainly our plan.
Assets like the ones that we're acquiring in DC is the kind of asset that again has a fair amount of redevelopment potential it's probably not something that we're going to get out right away but it's something we'll start working on right away and I expect that it will probably come together at a time where it makes sense in conjunction with the other redevelopments that we're doing.
So it sounds like most of the redevelopment opportunities that you will be targeting will be kind of more just within your existing portfolio versus going after on the acquisition front finding kind of redevelopment projects if you will? I understand your question.
No we don't necessarily look for redevelopment opportunities we look more for value-add opportunities but they're not always of a large scale REIT – not a large scale redevelopments.
Again we underwrite our assets by looking at the risk adjusted return and we think about our returns on an unlevered IRR basis.
So there are any number of ways to get there but certainly one of the ways to get there is by seeing the potential for value-add investing in an asset and that's the case with one of the deals we're looking at in DC.
And just one last big picture question for me just given some of the tenant bankruptcies and some of the headlines that come through this earnings season just if you guys could touch on your tenant watch list heading as you progress through the fourth quarter here? Hi it's Nancy.
I'd say from a tenant watch list perspective it hasn't really changed dramatically.
We had a few – of course we had the RadioShack situation but we actually gained quite a bit of the concentration backlist replacement operators in that transaction.
We had a couple singles like [indiscernible] for example.
We had a Simply Fashion and then of course A&amp;P.
So for us the watch list is manageable and something we do on a daily basis quite frankly.
But I wouldn't say that there's been a blow if you will of tenants making their way into the tenant watch list.
Our next question is from Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Just back to the four boxes the 200 000 square feet.
Just curious how much capital you think you might have to spend to get through that process to re-tenant them and how much downtime do you think is reasonable to assume? Are you anticipating that they get back-filled with tenants in place during 2016 or should we assume that they're essentially vacant for the year? Yes.
I think it's fair to say – when there are sizable boxes they never turn around quickly.
I think it's unfair for us to say that it could be a six-month process.
I think it probably is more likely given what we know in front of us today and the deals that we're negotiating and the down time [indiscernible] more like a latter part of 2016 I think is fair.
As far as capital spend as always going to place a per square foot number on each of the boxes that might be $40 per square foot would probably be a good number for us to use if and what we have the front box and the LOIs and what tenants may look for.
It sounds like the disposition proceeds will exceed the $60 million purchase price for the two properties under contract.
I guess can you just give us a sense of how much – can you maybe book in the value of the property that's actually on the market and is there anything under contract for sale today? On the disposition side you're asking? Yes.
So we have two assets for sale one of them is under contract one of them we're finalizing the bidding process now.
So I'm reluctant to discuss the valuation of the one that we're finalizing the bidding on now I could tell you that the assets under contract is a $15 million sales price.
So the vast majority of the value is in the other assets.
And then assuming that the two acquisitions and the dispositions close as anticipated how does that improve the Company's footprint? I am thinking about the four quartiles of the portfolio that you've discussed and broken out before.
May be how much NOI would be derived from the top two quartiles maybe or is there another way to think about how these transactions shift or augment the view of the portfolio? So what I would – I would guide you to a couple of thoughts.
I don't know – I think it's a little bit too soon to talk about the contribution of the different quartiles because again what's going to happen immediately after we close on the two sales and close on the two purchases is that we're going to be sitting on cash right? So until we redeploy that cash theory [ph] we won't have maximized the NOI off of our capital base.
Once we do that I would expect that you'll see in a greater proportion of the NOI coming out of our top quartile assets.
In terms of the characteristics of what we're selling and what we're buying I would guide you to broadly speaking two ideas.
So of course we have identified the location and the market for the two assets we're buying they're both in Washington DC.
So when you think about from a capital migration perspective we're moving our capital into the DC market.
The assets we're selling are both in Pennsylvania and outside of Philadelphia.
So they're both in markets in which we have a fair amount of geographic concentration that we're trying to reduce.
From a grocer perspective both of the assets we're selling are Ahold anchor centers and we're migrating the capital into centers that don't have Ahold as a grocer anchor.
So again from a credit exposure perspective and geographic concentration perspective we're furthering our interests when we think about portfolio management in terms of checking two boxes that we're looking to check in any round trip capital migration transaction that we pursue.
And then just lastly on the Rite Aid and Walgreens transaction.
You mentioned re-tenanting some of that space perhaps if the deal goes through would you anticipate any closures? Are there any at-risk locations in the portfolio where that there's significant overlap today? We did the same exercise Todd that we performed when the Ahold Delhaize merger – acquisition was announced.
And what we do is we take each individual location with all the banners go up several miles in some cases with some of the Rite Aids that we have at 20 miles before you find a competitor like a Walgreen.
You need a break down as to Walgreens five Rite Aids in our portfolio and [indiscernible].
So there's one particular that I've focused on when I was writing my comments and it's a Rite Aid that's in – an asset that's in line and it's an asset that we've contemplated for the long-haul to redevelop.
And so this does provide an opportunity for us to possibly even take Rite Aid out and put them on the asset or somewhere else or to let them go and retenant.
As far as proximity with stores so we have two Walgreens and there are Rite Aids relatively close but what's interesting is the two Walgreens are in very very dense markets.
So that is the type of the market we have drug stores on every corner.
So we don't see any kind of risk there [indiscernible] and our center in Long Island that actually is the closure that getting the fact for a little while.
And so it is in untapped location and we've had a lot of activity on that space they're continuing to pay rents and are obligated to do it.
So we've talked about termination with them.
It's got to be the right situation for us.
I think overall we see all that – there's been very few closures but where there's a possible closure we think that it is an opportunity for us to do something within the asset and rent pick up for sure.
Rent pick up and as I mentioned in the comment credit pick up as well favored us there.
Thank you.
There are no other questions at this time I would now like to turn the call back over to Bruce Schanzer for any closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us this evening.
We look forward to seeing many of you at Nyeri [ph] later this month.
Thank you.
This does include today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank all of you for your participation.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time all audience lines have been placed on mute.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session following the formal presentation.
I will now turn the call over to Nicholas Partenza.
Please proceed.
Good evening and thank you for joining us for the fourth quarter 2015 Cedar Reality Trust earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Bruce Schanzer Chief Executive Officer and Philip Mays Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin please be aware that statements made during the call that are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including those disclosed in the Company's most recent Form 10-K for the year ended 2015.
As a reminder the forward-looking statements speak only of as of the date of this call February 18 2016 and the Company undertakes no duty to update them.
During this call management may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including funds from operations and net operating income.
Please see Cedar's earnings press release and supplemental financial information posted on its website for reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bruce Schanzer.
Thanks Nick.
Good evening and welcome to the fourth quarter 2015 earnings call for Cedar Realty Trust.
Our results for the quarter and the full year 2015 were once again in line with our guidance and expectations.
From an operating perspective although our headlined least occupancy statistics are sequentially lower which is due to four large space vacancies we discussed at our third quarter 2015 earnings call we are generally pleased with our overall operating performance.
On tonight’s call I will ask Phil Mays to do a little bit more of the talking as he will review our results for the quarter and full year introduce our 2016 guidance and provide an update on operations and leasing as interim COO.
I trust you all saw our filing earlier this week announcing the termination of Nancy Mozzachio Phil has graciously agreed to fill in as Interim COO until a full time replacement is announced.
This evening I will briefly update you on the continued execution of our strategic plan which is centered on a keen focus on Grocery-anchored shopping centers between Washington DC and Boston.
Our plan includes extracting as much value as possible from our portfolio through an emphasis on leasing and operations.
Our plan also comprises a multi pronged redevelopment strategy that includes both adding smaller outparcel buildings and re-tenanting projects that cost a few million dollars and are typically executed in 12 months or less as well as larger scale redevelopments that will run in the many tens of millions of dollars and will take a number of years to complete once underway.
As you can see from our periodic press releases our ongoing efforts to migrate our capital from less dense to more dense markets with a strong preference for off market transactions continues as a essential element of our strategy.
Lastly our careful attention to our balance sheet in terms of leverage cost of capital capital sources flexibility and manageable maturities continues showing results.
Before jumping into this discussion however I’d like to take a moment to recognize my colleagues who are with me this evening.
Phil Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Operating Officer; Michael Winters Chief Investment Officer; Charles Burkert Head of Construction and Development; Lori Manzo Head of Leasing; and Adina Storch General Counsel.
In addition I would be remiss if I didn’t acknowledge the balance of my colleagues on Team Cedar who exemplify the core values of Cedar through their collegiality collaboration and dedication to everyday excellence.
Finally I should note that we will not be discussing further Nancy’s departure from Cedar either during our prepared remarks or Q&amp;A.
As our 8-K filing on Tuesday disclosed she was terminated and that is all that we wish to say at this time.
I will let Phil get into our leasing statistics in more detail.
I would just comment that although the four large space move outs caused a downtick in occupancy for the quarter we have solid traction with potential replacements in all four locations and are optimistic we will have the spaces released in the coming quarters in on average at overall higher rents than before.
On the redevelopment front we continue advancing two large redevelopments that we have not yet fully disclosed publicly as well as smaller projects we have underway or have previously discussed.
Notably as you may have seen we announced in early January the acquisition of East River Park Shopping Center in Washington DC.
In addition to being a well priced and structured off market acquisition for a high quality center in an attractive DC submarket this is a center that we fully expect will join our redevelopment pool in the years to come.
Although we have already actively begun the process of evaluating various alternatives for repositioning the asset it will realistically not be undertaken for a few years as we pursue other opportunities that are further along in order to manage our redevelopment risk.
Transitioning to capital migration the East River Park acquisition in addition to being a terrific redevelopment candidate also represents our first shopping center acquisition within the District of Columbia proper.
I am happy to report there is at least one other deal within the beltway for which we are under contract and which is scheduled to close.
More generally we continue executing on our plan of divesting centers in lower density markets and using the proceeds to acquire centers in higher density markets.
Interestingly we are benefiting from the fact that although the public markets don’t appear to appreciate the demand for many of our lower population density grocery-anchored centers we are generating significant demand when bringing these assets to market and getting reasonably attractive pricing on our sales far better than the implied public market valuation.
That said I will avoid the temptation to join the chorus of REIT CEOs expressing frustration because their share prices are at such a profound discount to underlying net asset values.
However you can expect us to continue to be mindful of the public private pricing dynamic as we make our capital allocation decisions most notably by using our existing assets as our source of capital for new acquisitions.
Beyond the capital allocation considerations another noteworthy aspect of this process is the remarkable statistical transformation that is underway as we migrate our capital from lower population density to higher population density markets.
I do not want to get ahead of myself by predicting what we might look like once the dust settles on this endeavour other than to note as I have in the past that with a relatively small portfolio such as ours the effect of just a few purchases in sales could have a measurable impact on the portfolio as a whole.
On the balance sheet front we ended the year at 7.2 times on a debt-to-EBITDA basis because of the timing of the East River Park closing in the last week of the year.
We anticipate continuing to de-lever over the course of 2016 as we close on the divestitures we have underway that are funding our identified acquisition pipeline.
Something worth highlighting even more than our overall leverage statistics is the culmination of our efforts to dramatically level out our maturity schedule and manage refinancing risk.
As you can see in our supplemental 2016 has a fair number of maturities in the second half of the year especially if you include the mortgage maturity at Camp Hill in January of 2017 that is pre payable at the end of 2016.
We are of course paying significant attention to these liabilities and as is our practice intend to have the refinancing obligations addressed well in advance.
What is exciting for us is that beyond this year’s debt repayments including the Camp Hill mortgage we literally have no debt maturities of any consequence for the following two years.
Accordingly while the volatile markets are giving nearly all companies both real estate and non real estate some cause for concern we are sanguine in the face of this turmoil as we anticipate the opportunities that correction might offer us.
Much of the credit for this facet of our transformation goes to Phil to whom I will now pass the baton.
Phil.
Thanks Bruce.
On this call I will discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full year provide updates on leasing and our balance sheet and introduce 2016 guidance.
Starting with the operating results.
For the quarter operating FFO was $12.3 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
For the full year operating FFO was $46.4 million or $0.54 per diluted share.
With the backdrop of our capital migration strategy to improve the quality of our portfolio as evidenced by an increase in both 3 mile population density and ABR we are pleased with our operating results.
Additionally these results are consistent with the strategic plan we have been discussing over the last couple of years and with the guidance communicated at the beginning of this year.
With regards to same property NOI growth including redevelopment same property NOI increased 2.5% for the quarter and 2.8% for the year.
When redevelopment properties are excluded same property NOI increased 2.4% for the quarter and 1.9% for the year.
These results like operating FFO are consistent with the high end of the guidance range we established at the beginning of the year.
With respect to leasing during the fourth quarter we signed 36 leases for 415 000 square feet and for the full year we signed 140 leases for 1.1 million square feet.
Comparable lease spreads for the quarter were 12% and comparable lease spreads for the year were 9.5%.
As discussed on our last call four anchors vacated their spaces during the fourth quarter.
This caused our leased total portfolio and same property portfolio to decrease to 91.5% and 92.8% respectively.
We expect on average to release these spaces at a higher ABR with new tenants taking possession in late 2016 or early 2017.
We are focused on getting this vacated spaces not only fill quickly but filled in a manner that would generate more foot traffic for the centers and it fits with additional leasing.
This quarter at the vacated Price Chopper box at Webster Plaza we signed a lease with Planet Fitness to take a portion of the vacated space and expect them to open towards the end of 2016.
Additionally we are well along in discussions with another retailer to take substantially all the remaining vacated Price Chopper box.
In fact we are at various stages of negotiations with several retailers for each of these vacated spaces and provide more details and updates on these spaces throughout 2016.
Before leaving the topic on leasing I would like to briefly discuss one other new lease.
During the quarter we signed a lease with Alby supermarket for space at Groton shopping center.
Alby is expected to open late in 2016 and as with the Planet Fitness lease this re-tenanting should both generate additional foot traffic and leasing.
We plan to invest about $3 million in connection with this redevelopment at a yield of approximately 9%.
Moving to the balance sheet.
As a result of acquiring East River Park late in December we ended the quarter with net debt to EBITDA at 7.2 times up slightly from 7.0 times at the end of the third quarter.
Our year end interest and fixed charge coverage ratios improved to 3.6 times and 2.0 times respectively.
Further we currently have about $180 million available on our revolving credit facility and no debt maturities until the latter half of 2016.
Let me provide some additional details about our 216 debt maturities.
We now have more flexibility as our secured debt is below 20% of our total asset value.
Accordingly we are comfortable refinancing our 2016 maturities with either secured or unsecured debt.
In fact our current plan is to use a combination of both to refinance a $125 million of debt maturing in the latter half of 2016.
Additionally in late 2016 we will likely take advantage of an early prepayment window and refinance the $60 million mortgage on the Camp Hill Shopping Center that is otherwise scheduled to mature in January of 2017.
Once these maturities are refinanced we will have an aggregate of less than $25 million maturing in 2017 and 2018 combined.
Although we cannot refinance these maturities until late 2016 it is likely we will obtain loan commitments during the first half of 2016 that permitted the late closing or funding.
Finally guidance we are establishing an initial 2016 operating FFO guidance range of $0.53 to $0.56 per diluted share.
And an initial NAREIT defined FFO guidance range of $0.50 to $0.53 per diluted share.
The primary difference between these ranges is estimated acquisition cost.
Further key assumptions included are as follows.
Same property NOI growth of 1% to 2% this is consistent with prior years.
However in prior years we guided to the high end of this range as a result of the vacated anchor spaces we are guiding towards the low end of the range.
We expect the replacement anchorage to take possession in late 2016 or early 2017 thereby causing a significant drag on same property NOI growth early in the year.
Specific modeling we currently are forecasting the impact of this re-tenanting because approximately a $2 million reduction of NOI in 2016.
Excluding these vacated anchor spaces same property NOI growth would be in the 2% to 3% range.
As far as transaction assumptions we are including $40 million of acquisitions and $110 million of dispositions.
This reflects two acquisitions and two dispositions that are very far along and expected to close in the first half of 2016.
Including the $39 million acquisition of East River Park in late December our dispositions will feed acquisitions by approximately $30 million.
We do have a healthy acquisition pipeline and will update our guidance throughout the year as we gain more clarity here.
Lastly our guidance does not include the accrual of any severance related to the recently announced termination of our COO.
And with that I will open the call to questions.
Thank you.[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question is coming from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Question on the re-tenanting activity so last quarter I think the cost to re-tenant the four boxes was sort of pegged around maybe $40 a square foot and the average mark-to-market was somewhere in the 20% range.
Just any additional insight being that you’re a little further down the road at this point? Yes Todd.
It’s Phil.
I think those still stand but I think when you’re looking at this lot of what we’re putting in there as I discussed in my prepared remarks were to generate additional foot traffic and additional leasing around it.
But I think you do 40 bucks on the 200 000 square feet that gets you 8 million in invested capital.
That’s probably when you include surrounding leasing that we are hopeful that will happen with it that number of price starts approach 10 million and probably a low double-digit return altogether.
Okay.
And then what was the timing of the vacancies like in the fourth quarter.
I guess I’m wondering how much of the $2 million reduction in NOI is in the run rate from the fourth quarter if you can share that? Yes.
Probably the midpoint was about in November.
It started I think [10/30] [ph] was the earliest and I think [12/28] [ph] was the latest so around November.
Okay.
And then I mean as you think about the ramp throughout the year than as tenants take occupancy in the later months of the year into 2017 do you think as we think about the trend in same-store NOI throughout the year are you expecting to see negative same store growth early in the year and the first half of the year? You know it’s possible especially in the first quarter maybe even the first half.
We have hopefully at least two of those boxes been filled by the end of the year but those are both be towards the fourth quarter and other two early the following year.
Dates could get moved up a little but that’s how we’ve currently forecasted and put it in the guidance.
Okay.
And just one other question on guidance what’s factored in is there any burn off of non-cash FAS 141 rent that’s included in guidance at all that would be outside of what’s disclosed I guess in your Q or K just based on some of the – either some of the move outs or some of the recent dispositions? I believe on just the kind of in place run rate it goes down 250 000 to 300 000 just from what’s in place.
Obviously as we buy assets throughout the year you know that could change but that’s probably about where we’ll end up year-over-year.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hey Collin.
First question just going back to the prepared remarks just on the dispositions it looks like there’s what another 95 million of incremental disposition and so all of that is expected to close in the first half of the year? I think all together - incremental yes because we announced 110 for two dispositions both should happen in the first half of the year that’s correct.
Okay.
If I’m not mistaken wasn’t it 15 - 15 million that’s already closed? Yes.
So the incremental is 15 on Liberty closed in February.
And so there’s one more left that will get us in aggregate of 110 million.
Okay.
Can you talk at all on pricing even or maybe just Liberty or what you might have in the pipeline as far as pricing on these sales? Collin on Liberty I could tell you that it was in the mid 7s and we as you know don’t talk about pricing until deals close so we’re not going to talk about the pricing on any of the other transactions we have teed up.
Okay.
That’s fair.
All right.
And then switching to just talk and again in the prepared remarks touched on the fact that you’re maybe looking at some unsecured debt later this year you’re looking at some refinancings can you just maybe touch on what type of pricing or term you are contemplating at this point and maybe what that -- that maybe how that’s evolved given some of the dislocation in the credit markets? Yes.
I mean we have a few options I think the most likely one would be similar to what we’ve done in the past.
Where we’ve done five and seven-year term loans with the bank it could be off seven-year.
Pricing right now balancing around a little bit but that would still be in the low to mid 3s.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
It’s very helpful.
And then again just making sure I understand as far as on the acquisition guidance.
It sounded like relative to your last call you’ve identified one other acquisition in the neighborhood of about $20 million now that again call it first half of the year that you’d expect to close on top of other deals that you guys were moving through the pipeline at the end of last year.
Is that a right way to think about it? That’s correct.
There’s two in the guidance.
They’re both about 20 million each and we expect both of them to close in the first half of the year.
Okay.
And then just looking forward I don’t know if you guys maybe just touch on the qualities that you’re looking for as you’re looking at replacing – looking for replacement of COO are you planning on hiring a recruiting firm do you have some candidates lined up just maybe on a go forward basis update us on the plan going forward on that front? Sure so obviously we’ve already started the process of looking for a replacement COO I’m not going to get into too much detail about how exactly we’re doing that.
It’s a multi-pronged strategy.
What I could tell you just in terms of how we’re approaching it is look we’re looking for the -- the next COO that we hire is going to realistically have some type of prior COO experience or have some type of senior executive experience in our space hopefully with the track record of successfully executing complex development projects hopefully with some retail experience.
One of things as you know just from dealing with me and Phil and our team is we’re obviously looking for somebody with significant technical and analytical ability somebody who can jump right into our highly analytical approach to underwriting and problem solving and then the last thing and you hear me talk about this all the time on the earnings calls is of course you know at Cedar we really focus very heavily on our culture of collegiality and collaboration and everyday excellence and certainly that’s going to be a character feature that we’ll be looking for in anybody who we bring on.
So broadly speaking if we are able to check all those boxes I think we’d be thrilled and certainly we’re going too patiently but at the same time decisively pursue candidates with those thoughts in mind.
Any specific time line you have in mind there Bruce that you like to have someone announced by? As soon as we can.
Okay.
Fair enough.
All right And then I guess just one – again big picture question from me is just on tenant watch list anything that’s moved around as we’ve started the year here for you guys and anything you’re paying a little bit closer attention to? No I mean I don’t think we’ve had any significant changes in our watch list that we update each quarter remain pretty consistent last couple of quarters.
All right.
I’ll turn it over.
Thank guys.
Thanks Collin.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Flores [ph] [Indiscernible].
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Hey Flores.
Couple of questions number one I notice that you have -- 2% of your tenants are temporary what do you expect that number to be at the end of the year end of 2016? You know what’s in there really relates to several properties where we’re contemplating re-development where we’re keeping tenants and not giving them terms so it kind of depends on the timing of when those take off.
I don’t expect it to be that different.
At the end of year there’ll be obviously some that will fall out new ones will come in as we start to ramp up other properties potentially.
But it’s probably not going to be materially different.
Okay.
The next question is I noticed on your -- the new list rental spread were actually smaller than your renewal spreads or yet your TI was almost two years of rent.
Was that property specific or was that skewed by certain things or is that sort of indicative of maybe some of the lower half of your properties that you’re trying to fill up before you sell? Any one quarter because there’s a not a lot of leases in there its not really a good representative.
I always kind of look at it more on the kind of a drilling four quarters but within the quarter specifically the TI [Indiscernible] gym and a couple of restaurants that typically cost TI to be higher and that’s why the TIs were high but I don’t – one lease two leases within one quarter when you talking about small things amplifies [ph] can kind of bounce the numbers around so I would direct you to kind of look more kind of a trailing four quarters and to get run rate.
Okay.
And maybe one other thing can you guys maybe talk about your view towards on new leases for fixed bumps and what is the evidence that you’re getting about maybe increasing your fix bumps on new leases compared what has historically been in the portfolio? So its definitely been a focus and our leasing team focuses on that with each lease we sign and we do our best to understand sales and cost of occupancy in all of our tenants and what’s going on with individual businesses and we push for those as much as possible obviously the anchor ones its harder to get him but on the small shop especially in the markets we’ve been pushing into but the more identity we’re able to generally get 2% to 3% annual bump at more recent properties we acquired which is an improvement from the portfolio prior to that.
And if I can Bruce you touched upon this you didn’t want it necessarily give an answer but in three years time do you guys see yourself more as a Philadelphia DC New York Metro Boston Metro Strip Company or do you still see yourself as sort of a more diversified company? I think its clearly the former Flores [ph] as we spoken about quite a bit on our calls migrating our capital into the more dense some markets within our DC to Boston footprint almost by definition and necessity will that will lead to is Cedar eventually been the owner of predominantly urban and quite close into Urban area open air shopping centers and that certainly where we’re taking our portfolio.
But again we’re doing it systematically and patiently while trying to grow the per share value of the company and so I guess three years is not a bad place to look in terms of when we’ll see that transformation that we can measure it and reflect on it although I would expect it to be something that takes many years as we just consistently try to grow our portfolio probably.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the floor back to Bruce Schanzer for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us this evening.
We will of course keep you posted on our search for new COO and will generally look forward to continuing to share with you the ongoing improvement in our asset level performance our portfolio quality and our management team in the quarters and years to come.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect your lines at this time.