Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 CF Industries Financial Results Conference Call.
My name is Regina and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Today's event is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Terry Huch Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And you may begin sir.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Terry Huch Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rich Hoker our Vice President and Corporate Controller; Bert Frost our Vice President of Sales and Marketing; and Tony Will our Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its first quarter 2011 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by Federal Securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor statement included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce our Chairman and CEO Steve Wilson.
Thanks Terry.
And thank you all for joining us this morning.
Last night CF Industries reported record first quarter net earnings of $280 million or $3.91 per diluted share compared to a loss of $4 million or $0.09 per share in last year's first quarter.
The record absolute earnings of course benefited from the acquisition of Terra a few days after the end of the first quarter last year.
However the fact that earnings per share exceeded the previous record by 41% illustrates both the strength of the current market and the way the Terra transaction is creating value for our shareholders.
We set our previous first quarter EPS record in 2008 when we were experiencing an unprecedented commodities bubble.
Compared to that period we now have higher grain prices much lower feedstock cost and what we believe to be more sustainable fertilizer prices.
We also have a more efficient and nimble system than we had in 2008 or in any time in our history because of the increased scale and operational synergies unleashed by the integration of CF Industries and Terra.
The flexibility we gained by putting the 2 systems together continues to prove its value especially when the market faces product mix timing and logistical challenges as it does now.
In addition to the operational benefits of the acquisition shareholders have enjoyed an improvement in capital structure as well.
In April of last year we exchanged some shares of CF Industries for shares of Terra and later issued more shares in a follow-on offering to retire some of the acquisition debt.
We also took on a prudent amount of financial leverage in the transaction which has given our EPS a boost.
We continue to believe that a leverage ratio of 1x to 1.5x EBITDA provides the opportunity to earn high returns on equity with low financial risk.
Operating cash flow of $671 million was the highest for any quarter in the company's history.
A $316 million increase in customer deposits related to forward sales was a major contributor.
The seasonal first quarter increase in customer deposits was larger than normal this year because of high forward prices.
The revenues and profits associated with these contracts will be recorded in future quarters when we deliver the products to our customers.
For that reason we don't think of all of that cash as being available currently for general corporate purposes.
The forward contracts on our books at quarter end were placed in periods when we were able to lock in high margins so they will contribute strongly to earnings in upcoming quarters.
I’ll have more to say about expected future cash flow in the outlook portion of today's call.
For now I'd like to focus on the market conditions and internal factors that enabled us to deliver such great results in the first quarter.
The key drivers continue to be low grain stocks and the farm economics that they support.
Grain prices are high giving farmers every incentive to plant as many acres of corn and other crops as possible.
In the first quarter of 2011 those planting intentions translated into strong demand and shipments.
CF Industries shipped 3.3 million tons of nitrogen and phosphate products in the first quarter up from 1.7 million tons in the first quarter of 2010.
In this comparison and throughout this call references to results in the first quarter of 2010 do not include Terra's results.
We are very pleased to be able to sell 3.3 million tons of our products while also replenishing inventories in preparation for the spring season.
That was possible because our plants ran extremely well setting a number of production records.
As importantly favorable world supply and demand conditions for both nitrogen and phosphate supported robust price levels although urea was a notable exception for part of the quarter.
As a result we achieved sales of $1.2 billion 134% higher than sales in the first quarter of 2010.
In the nitrogen segment sales of $926 million were up 183% on volume of 2.8 million tons which also more than doubled.
All 7 of our nitrogen complexes in North America operated at full ammonia capacity in the quarter and 8 of our 13 ammonia plants set production records in at least one of the months.
We also set UAN production records at some of our plants including a record in January at the original UAN plant at Woodward Oklahoma.
This was very helpful when we needed an additional product to satisfy customer commitments before the new plants started shipping UAN.
Global ammonia prices were very resilient during the quarter due to industrial demand growth and high phosphate production rates.
Towards the end of the quarter we even saw a plant in Eastern Europe shut down upgrading facilities in order to ship more ammonia which is a rare occurrence.
Gas limitations in Trinidad also played a role in keeping the ammonia market tight although our operation at Point Lisas was largely unaffected.
Urea markets on the other hand were sloppy in the latter part of the quarter due to high global production rates greater than expected exports from China in December and January and delayed purchases by India.
Prices at the Gulf fell by about $80 per ton during the quarter before finding a floor and rebounding sharply in April when demand revitalized following purchases by India.
We sold 1.5 million tons of UAN in the first quarter and produced a record 1.6 million tons thanks to the start-up of the Woodward expansion and high on stream factors at other plants.
Industry shipments were strong but the supply demand balance remained tight due to low inventories and high demand.
The price of UAN per unit of nitrogen currently reflects a large premium to both urea and ammonia.
And we believe market conditions continue to support that premium.
We also performed well in ammonium nitrate during the first quarter achieving the highest production since the Terra acquisition.
The Nitrogen segment gross margin of $443 million was more than quadruple the result in the first quarter of 2010.
In addition to the strong volumes and pricing I've discussed nitrogen profitability benefited from low natural gas prices.
Our average gas cost of $4.32 per million BTUs was 16% lower than our cost in the first quarter of 2010.
The behavior of natural gas prices over the last 9 months illustrates the significance of the change in the supply environment.
We had the second hottest summer followed by the fourth coldest winter in the last 25 years.
While this led to above normal draws on natural gas storage it had little effect on prices because of high production.
Phosphate segment sales were also very good.
Like the Nitrogen segment the Phosphate segment achieved very high production in the quarter.
Our plant in Plant City Florida achieved record production for any month and tied its previous record for production in a quarter as measured in tons of P2O5.
This was a critical success factor because we entered the first quarter with very low inventories of both DAP and MAP.
The great production we achieved allowed us to position inventories for domestic and international sales in the second quarter.
So we are very pleased with our first quarter results in both segments.
Our operating functions supply chain manufacturing distribution and sales all performed well and collaborated with each other very successfully.
Our earnings press release highlighted a number of notable safety milestones achieved in CF Industries facilities in the first quarter.
I want to take a moment to thank and congratulate the men and women at these locations who truly have internalized our culture of safe operations.
Safety must be a way of life in order to operate a facility for a generation and more without experiencing a loss-time accident as many of our facilities have done.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rich for a few more comments on our financial performance.
Thanks Steve.
And good morning everyone.
In the first quarter of 2011 CF Industries had net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $282 million or $3.91 per diluted share compared to a loss of $4 million or $0.09 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2010.
First quarter results included a $33 million pretax gain on the sale of 4 dry product warehouses $20 million of accelerated amortization of loan costs $2 million in restructuring and integration costs and a noncash mark-to-market gain on natural gas derivatives of less than $1 million.
First quarter 2010 results included $136 million in business combination costs and a few other items as detailed on Slide 8 and in the press release.
The impact of all of these items on EPS can be found in the press release.
The company generated $585 million of EBITDA in the first quarter with strong contributions from both segments.
The Nitrogen segment achieved a gross margin percent of 48% which you can see on Slide 5.
We sold 410 000 tons of ammonia at an average realized price of $494 per ton compared to an average price of $321 per ton in the first quarter of last year.
Sequentially the average price was up $42 per ton which is notable considering that the fourth quarter mix had a very high proportion of agricultural ammonia and the first quarter mix had a very low ag component.
We sold over 600 000 tons of granular urea during the first quarter about equal to our volume in the first quarter of 2010.
Our average realized price of $371 per ton was 21% higher than last year.
Before this quarter we included urea liquor in the volume and average price of urea sold.
On our segment summary we now have moved urea liquor into the other nitrogen category.
We sold approximately 1.5 million tons of UAN in the first quarter average UAN price utilizations were up 35% compared to the first quarter of 2010 to $277 per ton.
Ammonium nitrate sales of 244 000 tons were completed at an average price of $251 per ton.
As shown on Slide 7 we achieved a 33% gross margin on phosphate sales in the first quarter reflecting firm prices and strong production.
Compared to the first quarter of last year our domestic sales volumes for DAP and MAP were up slightly but total volume of 440 000 tons was 8% lower due in part to lower beginning inventory.
We realized average prices of $562 per ton for DAP and $569 per ton for MAP up more than 50% from the year-ago quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 32.9% in the first quarter or 36.7% after backing noncontrolling interests out of the denominator.
This rate is consistent with our expectations for the year.
Strong cash flow allowed us to repay the remaining $346 million balance outstanding under our bank term loan during the first quarter.
Interest expense of $52 million in the quarter included the $20 million of accelerated amortization I mentioned earlier which arose as a result of retiring this loan.
With this action we've completed the debt reduction we set out to do after the acquisition of Terra.
Net debt declined by $362 million during the first quarter to about $1.2 billion.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion not including the $104 million in auction rate securities.
About $750 million of our cash balance is being held as customer advances for future delivery of our products.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Rich.
Obviously we're very pleased with the results we delivered in the first quarter and we continue to be bullish about the second quarter and the rest of the year.
Planting intentions are very high and we have the products on hand to support farmers’ needs for plant nutrients.
Wet conditions have delayed planting in many areas.
This causes 3 types of concerns in our business: ultimate planted acreage product mix and transportation.
It's still too early to know whether late planting ultimately will reduce the number of acres of corn planted compared to intentions.
However the economic incentive for farmers to plant corn never has been greater than it is this year.
We continue to believe that 92 million acres of corn is achievable.
The next area of concern over a wet spring is what changes it might drive in nutrient application.
In areas in which planting is late and field conditions are still moist some farmers are likely to go straight to planting as soon as conditions become acceptable rather than take the time to apply ammonia.
In these cases the growers will plan to return to the fields later to apply UAN urea or ammonia as side-dress.
The net result of this change would be a decrease in total ammonia applied and an increase in the demand for urea and especially for UAN.
We've been producing UAN flat out to position ourselves to take advantage of this potential opportunity.
Getting UAN and urea to the areas where they are needed also has been complicated by the high water levels on the river system.
In this respect we have a number of important advantages including a large interconnected network in-market plants and terminals and a team that has spent the last year focusing on how to optimize plant sourcing for customer orders.
Because of these strengths our customers can rely on us to meet their needs even when conditions are difficult.
The current set of logistical challenges presents a great opportunity for our team to demonstrate its ability to execute in a nimble and effective fashion.
I'm confident that they are doing just that.
Transportation and field work limitations in the spring also may constrain domestic demand for phosphates.
Still we're in a comfortable position for the second quarter having found several opportunities to export to South and Central America at attractive net backs.
We expect world phosphate prices to remain strong due to growing demand and delays in new projects.
As we look into the second half of the year 2 factors continue to bolster our confidence in both nitrogen and phosphate markets.
First we believe strongly that the economic incentive to plant corn in North America will persist.
And second conservative fertilizer stocking practices will keep our customers coming back in the summer and fall.
We've already booked a meaningful amount of forward business for those periods and the prices we've achieved support our optimism.
We also feel good about the natural gas environment.
We see no reason to expect anything but relatively stable attractive natural gas cost in North America and a persistent cost advantage compared to European and most Chinese producers.
Given the underpinnings of our business including high demand for grain and ongoing favorable natural gas cost relationships we believe that the company is in a sustained period of strong earnings and cash flow.
We believe that this has resulted in a fundamental shift in the cyclical nature of our performance leading to the likelihood of our producing both higher lows and higher highs in our financial results.
We know that investors are very interested in our intended uses of the cash that we're generating in this favorable environment.
Over the next several months the management team and the board will continue to study our opportunities to increase shareholder value through investment in growth projects or otherwise.
Given the industry conditions in North America we're likely to find some very compelling growth projects here.
It's also important to note that the amount of cash we expect to generate in upcoming periods should be enough to support multiple capital priorities which could include returning more cash to shareholders.
A final note on the Terra integration although we'll continue to seek all opportunities to optimize our business I consider the basic operational integration of CF Industries and Terra to be complete.
We exceeded our synergy targets we operate with a single face to our customers and suppliers and we work as a unified team.
I'm very proud of the work our team did on this operational integration.
The remaining piece of the integration process is our ERP system implementation which is off to a good start and should be completed sometime next year.
With that let's open the call to your questions.
Regina please explain the Q&amp;A procedure.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question today gentlemen comes from the line of Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Steve could you maybe give a little more detail on 2Q? And as urea prices dip during the quarter how are you guys thinking about that? It sounds like one decision you made was to make as much UAN as possible because prices were staying strong.
But from a forward order perspective how is your team thinking about the prices going down and where they would trough and how you're running your book from that perspective? Well you're right.
We have been focusing on max UAN production.
I think our approach to urea prices has been a disciplined one.
And Bert I'd ask you to elaborate if you like.
I think your question is forward but also about what happened in March and April if I understand it correctly.
And we're pleased with our book that we took on urea and the other products going forward.
I think relative to your question will the market continue at the same pace that we had in April and May it is very positive right now.
The world markets do support today the pricing that we're currently experiencing.
And we do see positive things coming out of India and restrictions out of China will play positively for us out of NOLA and Medicine Hat for urea.
So does that imply we should continue to see sequential improvement in urea prices going into 2Q? We don't comment on our book specifically.
The market today is expressing that urea is over the first quarter.
But again we can't give the forward on what will happen.
Vince I remind you that our focus is always on what the margin is in our book.
We're very pleased with where our margin level is across all our products.
So will we see margins improve sequentially? We're in a great position.
Okay all right.
And then secondly I just wanted to ask you Steve what are your thoughts with -- there's a kind of interesting valuation dispersion between the nitrogen MLPs that are out there and where your equity is trading do you have any thoughts around that or any further thoughts on what you might be able to do with the P&amp;H MLP or the GPS? Well we're obviously pleased with the valuation.
We view Verdigris as a very important facility in our portfolio.
The structure of that is the structure that we inherited.
We're comfortable with where it is and we think it's an interesting indication of the value of nitrogen assets.
Yes.
I guess I'll just make a last comment and then I'll pass it on.
It just seems to me the market is -- as you think about what to do with your capital it seems like the market is saying it will reward your CF underlying equity valuation there’s a little bit more surety of capital.
So that's just a thought.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Picken with Cleveland Research.
I just want to start out by getting an update on potential CFO search when you think that might be completed? And then secondly how that might impact the potential to announce maybe a share repurchase program or some more decisions on kind of capital allocations? Mike well our process is continuing.
We've met a lot of excellent candidates and when we reach a conclusion we will be making an announcement.
But with respect to uses of cash we will be -- we will continue to study all of our alternatives for investing and otherwise deploying cash.
And when those decisions mature we'll be announcing them.
Okay.
I guess just sort of following up on that I mean would you expect that you would have a CFO in place before any decision on something like a buyback would be announced or would that be something that the board would go ahead this summer and start to look at regardless? Mike I just said they’re not directly related.
Obviously conceptually they are and functionally they are but they're not.
They're not joined at the hip.
Okay great.
And then one question that's a little bit more market oriented just wanted to sort of get your thought process in terms of China and with the higher coal cost over there their costs of production have obviously gone up.
I'm just wondering if you could give us kind of your best estimate of what the breakeven levels are and what your expectations are in terms of Chinese urea exports for 2011.
I think there are 2 factors at work in China that probably both work to the North American producers' long-term advantage or at least short-term advantage I should say.
First is the high input cost the higher coal cost is putting pressure on their fertilizer production.
And the second factor is the adoption of this new sliding scale export tax which effectively puts a pretty low ceiling on the net backs available to Chinese producers by exporting and is apparently intended to keep Chinese urea production inside China.
One is a short intermediate term factor the other is a long-term factor and I think they work to our benefit.
Next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez of Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Steve a quick question for you.
I mean you've talked about more opportunities for growth projects.
Can you elaborate on that a little bit? I mean you've completed the UAN expansion like what next are you thinking of and does that include considering like a greenfield ammonia facility? Edlain we have obviously a portfolio of nitrogen complexes in North America 7 of them.
As we put our very talented new technical team together they are looking at our configuration from a physical standpoint what opportunities do we have for efficiency gains what opportunities do we have for debottlenecks what opportunities might we have to upgrade some more of our ammonia into upgrading projects.
All of those things are under study.
And we certainly are in an environment where those kinds of projects ought to have very good returns.
Historically those inside defense projects have generated very high returns for us and we expect that some opportunities there will be consistent with that past experience.
Greenfield production in North America is an interesting concept.
There was an announcement by Dow recently that they're going to exploit the improved natural gas situation in the U.S.
by making some investment.
In our case it's an intriguing proposition.
On the other hand the regulatory climate in Washington is not conducive to that at the moment.
There's uncertainty at best and probably an unfavorable environment at worst.
For us almost always in fact probably always the cheapest incremental capacity comes from debottlenecks.
So those are the things that will probably rise to the top of the list.
Inc.</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Another quick question on ammonia prices for Q1.
I mean it was somewhat lower than expected I guess because of the mix with more industrial sales.
Can you remind us again what the mix was like in Q1 and what does it typically look like in Q2? Well we have a significant portion of our business as industrial business.
We are in the process of -- that's kind of a migration process.
Some of that business has moved or will move to ag and the rest of the industrial business is being reviewed and recast where we have opportunity to do so changing the pricing approach and so forth.
So we'll continue to tweak that.
I will tell you that the pricing that we're getting in the ag part of our business is consistent with the kind of prices that you've seen published over the last number of months.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Gulley with Soleil Securities.
Inc.</strong> I just want to elaborate a little bit on the response to the last question.
You've had a one- or 2-quarter lag in ammonia prices at least on the ag side.
Your realized price versus published prices.
So Steve are you implying that you've kind of caught up with respect to that lag effect? Mark I'll add one thought to what I just said a minute ago and then I'll ask Bert to elaborate.
In the first quarter we had a -- it's a relatively low ag ammonia quarter.
And so in comparison for example to Q2 much lower ag component in the mix will be a higher component in the second quarter.
Bert you want to add to that or was that your point? That's the key point and also there are different structures of industrial contracts whether they be Tampa based or gas based and that does have an impact.
Inc.</strong> Secondly on DAP were your sales limited? To what extent were your sales limited by inventory constraints on DAP in the first quarter? And have you built up inventory now to really satisfy your portion of market demand going forward? Mark we came into the quarter with lower inventory.
But as mentioned in the release we produced at a very high rate during the quarter and so some of that will be reflected going forward.
But DAP's a pretty consistent -- the phosphates are pretty consistent quarter-to-quarter with our sales whether that be domestic or exported.
That volume doesn't move too much.
Inc.</strong> And then lastly in your standard slide deck you give some spreads that are very helpful for example Mid West Cornbelt ammonia versus Tampa.
Can you maybe give us an idea of the spread between industrial and ag ammonia to help us understand how that mix effect could improve? Well on that you have to look at -- I think for Europe what you read in the publications relative to Tampa Tampa-based pricing and how that’s worked through on the industrial side and then ag is also reflected in the publications.
And I think those spreads will be fairly consistent.
Your next question comes from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Just quickly on the 92 million acres that you're expecting will ultimately get planted I'm just curious if you still feel good even though we've had some pretty foggy conditions in the Dakotas.
If those acres are the ones that are -- do you still feel good that those will get in the ground or if you think we'll see some planting elsewhere with more switching from say soybeans to corn making up some of that potential deficit? Well I think it's pretty clear that the economics are there to support 92 million acres of corn.
The achievability of the 92 million acres is somewhat diminished given current conditions.
But we’ve had a pretty good change in the weather in the last week or so.
And our anecdotes coming back from the field suggest there's a lot of activity out there planting as we speak.
So the jury is still out on that.
Bert you want to add to that? I think you're right Steve.
What we're seeing in the Dakotas relative to the flooding and the news that that's generating you have to remember that a lot of that acreage is close to the river.
The Dakotas are a large -- or both the states are very large and plant quite a bit.
And you're right some of the incremental corn acres will be coming in the Dakotas.
This will be a 90-day maturity or close to that.
We're seeing the ammonia go out.
And so the economic incentive I don't want to lose that thought to plant corn is unprecedented and to move to beans even at a trend yield of 160 to 164 it's still very attractive to plant corn and the window is still wide.
Yes.
The other thing I'd add is that our farmers' ability to plant corn quickly is amazing.
And we can do about 5% of the crop a day.
Is that right Bert? I think that's achievable.
Something like that and so it doesn't take -- in any given region it doesn't take more than a week to 10 days to get most of the crop in the ground.
Great.
And then just following Edlain's question about investment opportunities you talked about some of the potential buckets domestically.
Do you envision any growth opportunities outside of the U.S.
or North America? Well certainly we look at opportunities that come along and we're not averse to developing our own opportunities when we see the right set of circumstances.
What drives the potential appeal of an offshore greenfield investment would be access to a reliable low cost source of raw materials a stable political and economic climate friendly to foreign investment access to deepwater to move the product into the markets and of course reasonable proximity to ultimate markets.
Those are the things that would drive our decisions.
That set of circumstances is what first drove us to look at Peru.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Silver with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'm going to go on a couple of different areas.
First thing would be production or an operational question.
So I was struck by the fact that you said numerous plants of yours for ammonia had record or near record production all at the same time this quarter.
And I'm just wondering from your perspective internally I mean I think that's more than a coincidence right? And is that another -- what would the word be -- synergy or benefit of the Terra combination in other words best practices shifting from plant to plant? And then a longer-term view on the same question I mean your plants are certainly serviceable and well maintained but I mean this is a lot of old iron that you're working here.
And I'm just -- when you talk about debottlenecking as a use for what looks like a tremendous amount of discretionary capital that you're hinting might be available I mean how much debottlenecking can be done in 30- or 40-year old systems like this? I'll just make a general comment Dave.
And I'll turn it over to Tony Will.
While the original hardware is 30 to 40 years old when you look at our plants in general they don't look that old because we have maintained them well and we'll continue to do that in the future.
And frankly we sort of rebuilt them piece by piece.
And in terms of the short term yes and more technical things Tony go ahead.
Thanks Steve.
I would attribute the really strong operating results here in the first quarter to a couple of things.
One of which David as you mentioned is a real focus on preventative maintenance and ensuring a high uptime and on stream availability.
And the second one is we did not have a significant number of plant maintenance outages or turnarounds in the first quarter.
So those things kind of wind up to really provide us an outstanding quarter of operation.
Relative to debottlenecking opportunities if you look at a number of our plants the vintage on the ammonia side they were out-of-the-box 1 100-ton-a-day plants.
And as you see in our capacity charts we're operating those at 1 700 to 1 800 tons a day and certainly there continued to be opportunities to make additional improvements and modifications to those.
So I think you're only limited by the quality of your engineering capability and we really have world-class folks on the process side.
So just to follow up on that I mean during this round of conference calls I've had the chance to ask one nitrogen producer that's the world's largest in another nutrient.
And they're eschewing greenfields for North America but they are restarting an idle facility.
And then another major nitrogen producer has said without a 20-year fixed price gas contract they won't move forward.
So as you talk about the very robust demand outlook U.S.
being a huge net importer structurally of nitrogen I mean and your cash position improving as it is I mean what would be the major stumbling block to maybe moving beyond the debottlenecking and trying to make a bigger investment in North America? Well Dave I think to my thinking there's a single major stumbling block.
And that is the specter of Draconian carbon regulation.
Every ammonia plant produces CO2 it's part of the chemical process.
And in an environment no pun intended in an environment in which we don't know what ultimate CO2 regulation will be and some of the outcomes could be particularly punitive it would not be possible to commit substantial amounts of money into new production because it could end up being extremely expensive to operate.
Tony? Dave the other thing that I would say is as Steve indicated we maintain a very robust list of capacity debottlenecks and expansion opportunities within our existing plants.
And those tons tend to be far less expensive than greenfield or new construction and we have a lot of those projects potentially in front of us.
And so we would want to go through and exhaust the cheapest available tons before we went after more expensive ones.
Okay all right.
I'd like to switch over to maybe a question about use of free cash flow or the strategies here.
I think broadly speaking I mean if you look at consensus estimates they've done nothing but rise for your company since the beginning of the year yet even with today's big pop I mean your stock has basically been treading water in other words the market is compressing the multiple it's paying for your earnings.
And I'm just wondering with a very healthy balance sheet with a positive outlook what would be the hindrance here if not going up immediately on an aggressive share buyback program what would hold you up from at least authorizing such a program and at least sending a signal? David I'll just reiterate what I said earlier and that is that we as a management team and our board will consider a broad range of investment opportunities and other ways to deploy cash.
And included in that list will be sending cash to shareholders in one form or another.
So it's the full menu and we'll be looking at all those things.
Okay.
I'd like to ask one other question I guess on marketing if that's okay.
Your quote from earlier in the call in your prepared remarks Steve regarding operational integration you said the basic operational integration is complete and you were able to put -- in the past you've put numbers around that in terms of the targeted synergies.
And each quarter somehow in the switchover of the marketing and the potential for synergies there but each quarter we always try to poke and hint around at what the price gap is between the business mix or the marketing contracts you inherited and where you hope to be down the line.
So I'm wondering if you could just share with us if you have a time line in other words it's about 18 months for operational integration.
But do you have a time line for when you think you'll be through redoing or updating the marketing mix that you inherited or the combination that you had upon the Terra acquisition closing? And then also is there a targeted marketing synergy or revenue synergy total or a range that you think is ultimately achievable? Dave my overall comment that I made about the integration process included reference to that aspect of our business.
We are operating as a single marketing unit.
We are out there every day working to optimize or excuse me maximize our margins in our business on a day-to-day basis as well as the long-term basis.
Does that mean that everything is completely up to date? No the one exception is some of this industrial business that's done on a contract basis.
But as those contracts expire they either get renewed or terminated depending on discussions.
But in the grand scheme of things that's a relatively small part of our whole portfolio.
But we feel great about where we are in all aspects of the integration including the ERP installation even though it's in an early stage.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Tiberio with Chardan Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> My question is one of your international peers mentioned that the shipments in the first quarter were very strong.
Can you perhaps give us some color on how you're looking at that market and how it's developing in the second quarter and what the potential could be in 2011? Tim we have seen a very rapid growth in the DEF business consistent with our original view of the evolution of the market.
Our shipments in the first quarter were roughly 6x what they were a year ago.
We see the growth in the market tracking along with the number of truck builds and the number of new truck builds is consistent with the outlook that we had last year when we first looked inside the hood at the DEF business.
LLC</strong> And just one last question I noticed that your customer advances are significantly up year-over-year.
Could you perhaps give us any color on how that's weighted towards ammonia versus UAN? We're very pleased with the size of our order book.
The amount of customer advances is a function of obviously of the amount of forward business that we have.
And we're comfortable with the mix of business and the margins included in that but we don't break it down by product.
Your next question comes from the line of Horst Hueniken with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just following on along the working capital you're slightly positioned differently now.
I'm wondering whether the working capital changes that we should expect in the second and third quarters would be different from the normal seasonal patterns that we've seen in the past given your different positioning now.
Horst I don't think so.
I mean the first quarter generally is a quarter in which we position ourselves to deliver a large volume of product to our customers and that's what we did in the first quarter.
What you'll see is we will deplete inventory in the second quarter.
We will turn customer deposits into operating cash flow and our goal of course is to come out of the spring season with a reasonable level of inventory going into the full season as low as we can get it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay that will help my modeling.
What about turnaround schedules for the second and third quarter just trying to get a sense of how much activity there will be and what the impact might be on your bottom line? Horst we operate so many facilities based on the front end 13 ammonia plants that we almost always have some facility either in turnaround or about to be in turnaround.
And so for us to put out a schedule would be a continuous process and I'm not sure would help you that much.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
The last one and just related to the market one of the odd things we saw is Russia providing Ukraine with discounted gas I'm sure you saw that.
I'm trying to assess what that might -- what impact that might have on Tampa pricing if any? Do you have a view on that? I'll let Bert handle that question Horst.
I think your point on the gas prices in the Ukraine or Russia it’s been a little bit opaque.
And as we watch that we pay attention to each of the markets.
But I think the relevance usually in some of those markets today to where they were in the past are not as pronounced.
And its impact on NOLA for one we don't bring in field urea to NOLA.
And so when we watch the markets we’re watching usually in the Arab Gulf and the larger producing blocks let's say and add China into that mix where those products can and will go freight rates and then put that in and what we think this market can bear and what is driving those markets.
So relative to where pricing is today it's solid.
And there seems to be a shortage of supply currently around the world and that's supporting higher prices which are now over $400 on a metric ton basis out of the Arab Gulf.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Just 2 questions.
Steve in the past to paraphrase you described your forward sales program as if we like the margins we'll take the business and lock it in.
Is that still an accurate description? Absolutely.
So no change in the way you're doing that? Perfect okay.
So the second question I'm struck by your comment about higher highs and higher lows which hopefully means higher multiples.
And I know I've asked this before but when natural gas prices were below $4 I asked you how you think about locking in low-cost gas.
Is your view that you can develop more sustainable earnings with the platform you've got now and the environment you've got now is that likely to change your view on your willingness or interest in hedging gas cost? Well what we try to do and actually your second question is very much related to your first question.
We manage our margin.
We try to take risk out of our business by locking in margin when we see attractive margins.
So it's a relationship between fertilizer prices and gas cost that we focus on.
We watch the gas market every day.
If we see gas prices that we like and we have to really like them we'd be willing to lock in some portion of our gas needs that isn't related to contracted nitrogen sales.
But in the past that's been a relatively small amount.
It would take a very attractive gas for us to go further out.
And you have to remember that we’ve basically seen a contango in the gas market so the current month’s price and the next month’s price is not usually available to us a year or so out.
So Tony you want to add to that? The only thing I would add to that is that with the supply response that comes online now given shale gas it's very different than it used to be in the past.
So even though this past year we had very cold winter and previously a very hot summer high gas usage what you see as a supply response that’s able to kind of meet those demand peaks and keep pricing relatively stable in North America.
So part of I think embedded in Steve's comment about higher highs and higher lows is a structural change in the gas environment that we face in North America.
And if there's relative stability in the underlying gas price and the contango the need or desire to take on unhedged positions into the future is not -- is really not there.
Your next question from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> A couple of questions.
On the forward order book what is it today? How much has it grown since the end of March? And exactly how far forward does it go? I mean are farmers wanting to lock in product for next fall so they can then hedge their 2012 corn price? Bert? Well as you know we don't really communicate what our forward book is.
We're very pleased with what we have booked and the prices associated and -- or I should say margins associated for the previous comment.
Farmers have attractive economics.
I keep wanting to go back to this.
The price of corn the price of corn that is one that they're able to book whether that be September December on a historical basis and a spot basis are excellent.
And so we have had farmers come to us or come to our customers and book their fall needs.
But we're -- as we will continue to say quarter by quarter we always have products available to sell and we like our book.
LLLP</strong> And then switching to greenfield Steve you mentioned a lot of concerns about carbon caps but certainly in the ethylene industry we've seen a slew of announcements from people other than Dow and even on new capacity and they don't seem to be worried about permitting.
So is there something specific to ammonia that causes you to be more conservative? And then just finally is Peru dead or are you still looking at that? With respect to greenfield production it isn't so much the permitting.
It is what the EPA may do with respect to regulating CO2 as coming out of the ammonia plant.
Where in the chain CO2 might be regulated.
Will it be regulated at the ammonia plant level? Will it be regulated even at the farm level as it's released from urea? It's an unknown.
And unlike some other commodities the carbon intensity of what we do is extremely high.
With respect to Peru the general situation hasn't changed in the last quarter.
But perhaps there's been a bit more uncertainty injected in the situation.
They had an election in Peru.
There are now 2 candidates in the running for the final election.
The outcome of this election could result in a political environment that is less conducive to investment projects like ours but that's not clear at this point.
I think the 2 candidates are neck and neck currently.
The other development that occurred is that there has actually now been an announcement that the expansion of the pipeline over the Andes bringing gas to the coast has been delayed.
And so those factors are working in the same general direction and that is we don't feel it's desirable at this point to be spending a lot of effort or money on that project.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
So not dead but on the respirator? You said that I didn't.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Rystrom with Feltl.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick comment that would preface my question I farm in North Dakota and only 3% of the eastern part of North Dakota that is where corn grows have still got wetness from the flood.
So that's not going to be an issue.
We've got 10 days of dry weather coming here.
9 out of the next 10 are going to be dry they're going to be planted.
The issue that I see is that -- and this could be an opportunity for you -- is with the late planting I would assume from our perspective we think you have to really heavily fertilize to make up for the lack of days.
Is that a fair assessment? I'm not a farmer.
You're the expert.
I'll turn that question to Bert.
I think your thinking is logical.
We're obviously out working and traveling and contacting the people that feed us that information by state and sometimes by county.
And what we're seeing is people will be getting in the fields.
It's opening up.
The window is wide.
And this is actually a very good time to be planting corn for the next probably couple of weeks.
But they will go directly to planting bypassing that first application ammonia.
And so we see people preparing for side-dressing of ammonia.
But UAN is available we are positioning from our system to barge and rail car delivery and FLB plant sales of our remaining tons to sell and we're seeing a lot of interest in that.
So I think that was what will take place and we're preparing for a higher application of AN.
Inc.</strong> And so this may seem like an odd transition.
But in a weird way from your perspective the likelihood that we could face some yield issues this year on higher acres is going to drive business this year but it could very potentially tighten the carry out in 2012 and make next year even more important from a corn perspective? This is obviously possible that scenario could unfold but you never know.
You never know what the weather is going to be like in the summer time how intense the heat will be and so forth and so on.
But certainly that scenario is a plausible one.
Your next question comes from the line of Elaine Yip with Crédit Suisse.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered but on your Phosphate business can you remind us as to the life of your reserves and whether you're looking for additional rock elsewhere? Yes I'll ask Tony to answer that question.
But I'm very glad you asked a question about phosphate.
Elaine we have 14 years of fully permitted reserves right now and we have another contiguous tract of land with approximately 9 years of reserves on it that we are in the process of permitting.
We've begun that process about 2 years ago.
And it is a time-intensive issue but we feel comfortable with where we're at and the progress that we're making on that.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Okay we’d like to thank everyone who participated on the call today.
And if any of you need more information about CF Industries or our results please contact me Terry Huch.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for your participation in today's teleconference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carmen.
I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Terry Huch Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Carmen and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
With me today are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rich Hoker our Vice President and Corporate Controller; Bert Frost our Vice President of Sales and Marketing; and Tony Will our Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its second quarter 2011 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the forward-looking statements included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Terry and thank you all for joining us this morning.
Last night CF Industries reported second quarter net earnings of $487 million or $6.75 per diluted share on sales of $1.8 billion our record for any quarter in the company's history.
For a commodity producer to generate such outstanding results it needs an outstanding business environment and clearly we're enjoying an outstanding business environment right now.
But the second quarter also was remarkable because of the challenges farmers faced in applying crop nutrients and the challenges we and our customers faced in getting our products to the farmers who needed them.
The way our team collaborated to maximize the throughput of our plants terminals and transportation assets enabled us to capture the opportunity presented by strong market demand and prices.
I'll have more to say about demand and the pricing environment later.
But first I'd like to mention a few of the challenges we faced and how our team rose to meet them.
High water on the Mississippi River slowed traffic and made it difficult to load barges and ocean-going vessels at Donaldsonville.
Still because of a good configuration of equipment and a lot of hard work we were able to load barges throughout this period and to operate the facility at full capacity.
Next high water on the Arkansas River did halt barge shipments from Verdigris for 3 weeks.
We responded by increasing rail and truck shipments.
Third high water on the Yazoo River in Mississippi threatened some inventory in Yazoo City but we were able to relocate it to higher ground.
Fourth anticipation of flooding along the Missouri River led us to build protective berms around our Port Neal complex and the neighboring terminal and to call a precautionary halt to production at the plant.
But because of a light planned maintenance schedule and good uptime performance at our other nitrogen plants we were able to make up for all lost production at Port Neal and run our domestic ammonia system our total domestic ammonia system at full capacity.
By focusing our attention on the precautionary measures we were able to avoid any damage to the plant and start back up much faster when conditions allowed.
While we were down we also completed an inspection and enough maintenance to allow us to postpone the next turnaround at Port Neal by a full year.
And it wasn't just our plants that faced challenges due to flooding.
All across the Central U.S.
high water closed many sections of railroad track and several river locks slowing traffic and requiring us to reroute deliveries or ship them from different locations.
Our team was very resourceful and our extensive network of plants and terminals gave us a lot of levers to pull in order to satisfy customer demand.
In many cases we were able to offset lower rail and barge capacity with increased truck shipments because of the flexible loading capability of our locations.
So demand and prices gave us a great opportunity this quarter.
Weather and flooding tried to take it away but good execution won the day and allowed us to deliver outstanding results.
I'm grateful to all our hard-working employees who made that happen.
In the second quarter we reported earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization of $889 million which equated to a 48% gross margin.
At the time of the Terra acquisition I remember discussion about whether the combined company could earn $1.5 billion of EBITDA in 2010 and going forward.
If we had made the acquisition on January 1 2010 we would've met that expectation for the year 2010.
And now we've done the same in 2011 in just the first 6 months of the year.
That kind of profitability and the corresponding cash flow have given us a great opportunity to invest in our business.
We have approached that opportunity the same way we approach every important decision at CF Industries as a chance to maximize shareholder value.
We have concluded that the best way to do that is to quadruple our regular dividend invest in domestic projects that we believe are clear winners and repurchase shares.
Quadrupling our dividend to $0.40 per share is an expression of our ongoing confidence in the business.
Investing in domestic projects allows us to leverage our excellent operating platform in North America and take advantage of the favorable natural gas market we enjoy here.
It also enables us to produce more value-added products for the world's best crop nutrient market.
Although we're not presently studying any greenfield ammonia plants in North America we have the ability to increase our nitrogen nutrient capacity by eliminating bottlenecks at our existing plants.
We also have opportunities to upgrade more of our free ammonia to urea and UAN where we can earn higher margins per unit of N and to optimize our plants in other ways.
We expect to spend as much as $1 billion to $1.5 billion over the next 4 years on these actions.
And frankly should we identify more of these kinds of projects we would have more capital available for them.
Our plan to deploy up to $1.5 billion to repurchase shares between now and the end of 2013 recognizes that the company is overcapitalized and that the company's shares represent good value.
We don't believe these actions will hamper our ability to consider other opportunities to increase shareholder value through investment or acquisition when they arise.
We're announcing this plan at a time when we have a large cash balance low debt and the expectation of high continuing operating cash flow.
This quarter's operating cash flow was a record for the second quarter.
Strong demand and prices for our products set the stage for this quarter with the global urea market leading the way.
The price of urea at the U.S.
Gulf rose by more than 50% from its low point in mid-April to the end of June.
Understanding why this happened is important in evaluating our results and the sustainability of current market conditions.
The key factor in urea's run-up was the market's recognition that export availability from China was going to be much lower than it was last year.
The sliding scale tariff that was announced in December and became effective in July seems to be doing exactly what it was designed to do: limit exports of a key energy-intensive resource and keep nutrient prices within China lower than they otherwise would be.
Although the details are likely to vary each year we don't expect these overriding goals to change.
The market coming to grips with lower export availability from China is the thing that changed most during the quarter but it wouldn't have had nearly as good an impact in a weak demand environment.
We're in a period of high global demand for urea and nitrates driven by low global grain stocks.
North American demand for urea contributed to global strength due to large plantings and spring weather conditions that seem to favor upgraded products over ammonia.
Low inventories also played a role in urea's price rise and they continue to play a role in sustaining prices at high levels.
This is especially true in the U.S.
where we saw some localized shortages that sent growers scrambling to find urea or to substitute other nitrogen products.
To round off the discussion of issues that propelled urea prices this spring I point to unsatisfied demand in India.
It seems that each time a factor arises that might be bearish for crop nutrient prices market participants are reminded that India has delayed purchases and eventually will need to catch up.
Something I find interesting about this list of supportive factors for urea is that it could be repeated almost word-for-word in explaining the current strength in phosphate market prices.
China's export tariff has reduced export supply strong crop plantings have increased demand global inventory levels are very tight and delayed shipments to India put a floor under world demand and price.
CF Industries was able to take advantage of this price environment realizing average prices across all our products that reflected market strength.
Ammonia provides a good example.
We sold ammonia at an average price of $596 per short ton in the second quarter.
As you can see on Slide 5 the Green Markets published ammonia price has been flat for most of the year yet our realizations were up 17% from the first quarter to the second.
In part this reflected our normal lag because of forward sales and it also reflected a very high portion of our sales being made into agricultural markets and a large percentage of those ag sales being made in the Corn Belt where demand is strongest in the second quarter.
Our price realizations for phosphate which are shown on Slide 6 also were strong compared to market benchmarks.
Our average selling price for DAP was $555 per short ton which is equivalent to $610 per metric tonne.
Our phosphate business benefits from seamless flexibility between domestic and export sales due to our strong distribution network in the Corn Belt and our collaborative relationship with KEYTRADE.
Demand was strong throughout the second quarter but the month of June was especially noteworthy.
While we were focusing on overcoming the challenges that weather presented to transportation and application of crop nutrients farmers were busy planting as many acres as possible.
Supplies of urea and UAN ran very low renewing the attractiveness of ammonia which is readily available and priced at a large discount to the upgraded products on a nutrient basis.
Because of the late start application continued all through June and even into July which helped us ship almost 1 million tons of ammonia in a quarter that didn't appear to have favorable weather for direct application.
The late ammonia season translated into a long ammonia season which allowed us to leverage our resupply capability.
The cost picture continues to be bright for us as well.
Our average natural gas cost in the second quarter was $4.32 per MMBtu equal to the first quarter and lower than the year-ago quarter.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rich for a few more comments on our financial performance.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
In the second quarter of 2011 CF Industries recorded net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $487 million or $6.75 per diluted share.
This compares to $105 million or $1.54 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2010.
Our second quarter results included a $14 million noncash mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives and other items detailed on Slide 7.
Our second quarter results a year ago included $114 million in business combination and integration costs and a $15 million noncash mark-to-market gain on natural gas derivatives.
Our Nitrogen segment had an outstanding second quarter.
We delivered 3.8 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin percentage of 52% which you can see on Slide 5.
This significantly increased gross margin reflects higher nitrogen selling prices and slightly lower realized natural gas costs compared to a year ago.
During the second quarter of 2011 we sold 981 000 tons of ammonia at an average realized price of $596 per ton compared to 1.2 million tons of ammonia at an average price of $380 per ton in the second quarter of 2010 when conditions were ideal for preplant application.
Sales of granular urea were 727 000 tons during the second quarter of 2011 compared to 779 000 tons in the second quarter of 2010.
Our average realized price of $389 per ton was 31% higher than last year.
The tight availability of urea in some areas of North America during the quarter added a short-term boost to in-season prices.
Looking now to UAN we sold more than 1.6 million tons during the second quarter an increase of 6% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Average UAN price realizations of $323 per ton increased 47% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
UAN prices were stable at high levels throughout the second quarter which we attribute to high U.S.
demand the extended application season and a strong global market for nitrates.
Ammonium nitrate sales of 268 000 tons in the quarter were about even with second quarter 2010 volume.
As with our other nitrogen products average price realizations for ammonium nitrate were strong at $260 per ton an increase of 22%.
As shown on Slide 6 our Phosphate segment like our Nitrogen segment had a terrific second quarter.
We achieved a 29% gross margin nearly double the 16% gross margin reported a year ago reflecting strong demand and prices.
Total sales volume for DAP and MAP was 17% higher than the second quarter of 2010.
Exports of 240 000 tons represented 45% of our phosphate sales volume attributable to seasonal strength in South and Central America tight supplies in international markets generally and attractive net prices.
Second quarter net sales of DAP and MAP were $297 million an increase of 60% from last year due to higher sales volume and higher average selling prices.
The average price realizations for DAP and MAP were $555 and $544 per ton compared to $400 and $414 respectively a year ago.
The company's effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2011 was 34.5%.
This rate remains consistent with our expectations for the year.
During the second quarter we generated $251 million of net operating cash flow.
Our customer deposits declined by more than $340 million in the quarter as we shipped orders that had been prepaid and counted in operating cash flow in earlier quarters.
Even after the reduction in the second quarter our customer deposit balance still totaled more than $400 million as we entered the third quarter.
Operating cash flow and the reduction in customer deposits combined to reduce net debt by $567 million to $661 million at June 30 2011.
During the quarter we also redeemed $24 million in auction rate securities at par leaving a balance valued at just under $82 million.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Rich.
We're very pleased with our second quarter results and the way things appear to be shaping up for the rest of the year and into next spring.
Farm income is expected to set a new record this growing season and we believe farmers are going to plan a very large corn planting next year.
We expect the corn stocks-to-use ratio to remain in the mid-single-digits for the 2011 marketing year supporting elevated corn prices.
This should provide growers with compelling incentive to reinvest some of their harvest income in crop inputs.
If it's up to the farmers we'd expect a large fall application for all 3 primary nutrients.
Of course it's not always completely up to them.
Weather can have a big impact on the share of nutrients that gets applied in the fall of any year.
The industry has been concerned that late planting this year could translate into a late harvest and therefore a compressed fall application window.
Those fears have diminished somewhat over the last 2 weeks as hot weather has caused the corn and soybean crops to mature faster.
Forecasts of corn production this year still are punctuated by big question marks around the percentage of planted acres that we harvested and potential yield reduction from high heat during pollination.
We believe that corn supplies will continue to be tight.
Plantings will remain high and farmers will make every effort to apply nutrients optimally.
Wheat supplies are also below normal sustaining attractive prices for farmers.
We're keeping an eye on the drought conditions in parts of Texas Oklahoma and Kansas which could restrain fall nutrient application for winter wheat in those areas.
As I mentioned in my earlier remarks the global supply demand balance for all of our products continues to be tight and supportive of high prices.
Price trends have been unseasonally strong this summer.
As you would expect the price of urea did come off its in-season high but it has bounced up again and appears to remain resilient in a range around $500 per short ton at the U.S.
Gulf supported by the factors I cited earlier and by strong demand in India the rest of Asia and South America.
UAN and ammonia prices remain strong and phosphate prices continue to rise due to low inventories and production challenges.
CF Industries has a good forward order book with attractive margins.
Most of our current order activity is for late fall but we have kept enough uncommitted product to benefit from attractive spot demand.
We feel good about the natural gas environment.
The July heatwave caused a spike in electricity demand but gas prices maintain tame due to strong production.
The August future closed at $4.38 per MMBtu and this morning the September contract is trading around $3.95.
We expect our strong cash flow to continue.
The strategic actions we are pleased to announce today allocate a portion of our present cash balance and future operating cash flow but in no way exhaust resources that may be needed to expand our capability and our company.
They underscore our priority to generate as much cash as possible for the benefit of our shareholders followed by a disciplined approach to invest in new assets and/or to distribute it to them.
With that let's open the call to your questions.
Carmen would you please explain the Q&amp;A procedure? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez from Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Steve question on the share repurchase.
I mean can you talk about the timing and what will trigger the purchase? Is it going to be opportunistic like market-wise? Because I remember last time you announced a share buyback you got it done very quickly.
I mean can you talk about the timing in there? Well our authorization to purchase shares is a significant authorization.
We do intend to buy the shares back.
We will buy them based upon our own assessment of the market as the days and weeks go by and we'll let you know what we do periodically after we've done it.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's fine.
Next question on forward pricing.
Now as you noted prices have been on an upward trend and have stayed high.
Unless you presold products last year I mean can you talk about under what circumstances would realized prices in the second half of the year be lower than 2Q prices? Bert do you want to address that question? If I understand the question and what would drive second half to be reflective of Q2 pricing and where we are today we've seen a substantial recovery in urea as we mentioned earlier from the lows of Q2 of $312 up and to almost $500.
And we had a little bit of a movement back in July and today we're close to the $500 level.
And so that is supporting the end products.
And then in regards to our forward book we have taken some sales and we continue to take sales everyday.
We're pleased with the margins and we're going to be active and continue to be active for the rest of the year.
The next question comes from the line of Don Carson from Susquehanna.
It's actually Sandy Klugman sitting in for Don.
Quick question on phosphates.
You talked about your flexibility between the domestic and the offshore phosphate markets.
Question is how exposed are you to the lower-priced Indian market? And even if that exposure isn't particularly high what's your outlook for where the contract settles when it gets renegotiated over the next month or two? Well we believe that our location and our relative size are advantages for us in the marketplace.
We have a number of relationships in other countries notably Central and South America that we enjoy.
Those are markets which don't require the huge tonnage that India requires.
So we are able to operate opportunistically not just between domestic and export segments but among export opportunities.
India is clearly a major player.
They have been in an interesting position this year with a huge demand.
They were reluctant to meet the price that the market seemed to require and they have kind of grudgingly moved up to come close to where the market was.
In terms of going forward it's a supply/demand situation.
Supply generally seems to be tight.
And just to shift to nitrogen.
I know following the Terra acquisition your exposure to the industrial markets increased rather meaningfully.
I was wondering if you could comment on how you see the ag/industrial mix shaping up going forward? And also if you could make a comment on the DEF market was previously focused where you see that business going in the future? What the potential is for that market? Sure.
Sandy I guess I have just a general comment about the ag/industrial mix and that is that we don't have an objective for that.
It's really not a distinction that really matters for us.
What we're looking for is to find the pieces of business that yield the highest margins to us.
And whether that's in industrial or ag it doesn't matter to us as we have operated in the market in the last year.
I think you're aware that we've had industrial contracts coming up for renewal.
In some cases we've continued to do business on the prior basis.
In other cases we've changed the basis on which we do business.
And in other cases we've decided to part ways.
And that's just part of the normal evolution of our business mix.
We're looking to put our products to the highest and best use.
With respect to DEF the market is shaping up pretty much the way that we expected it to shape up.
Our volumes this year are roughly 4x to 5x what they were a year ago.
That's consistent generally with what our expectations are.
This is a very very high margin business.
We love the margins.
It's not large enough yet to be meaningful within our financial results but it's on its way to becoming so.
The next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley.
Can you just give us a sense of where North American producer inventories are for urea? I guess TFI hasn't put them out in a couple of months.
And maybe where you think they are relative to the 5-year average? And maybe just talk about your own inventories however you can do it? Sure Bert you want to comment on that? I would probably expand it to inventories overall.
You're right TFI hasn't released those.
I can tell you anecdotally and from our conversations with retailer dealers and wholesalers the inventories are low and they're low throughout the United States.
And we saw that reflected in a scramble in June and into July for the rice movement for urea tons from long distances.
But I would also expand that to other areas of the world.
Urea around the world is tight.
And you're seeing Brazil as well as India every 2 to 3 weeks announcing a tender and a difficulty of pulling that urea out of China and they are both staying out of some of those tenders and movements.
So as you see that reflective with usually [ph] being the balance it's operating very well.
And as we've mentioned earlier a very good operating environment for CF.
Okay.
And then Steve can you give us an update on where you are in terms of a CFO and maybe tie that into the decisions that the board made on return of capital? And maybe talk a little bit about what you're going to do with the balance sheet from a debt prospective? I know from the release you've changed some of the provisions in your credit agreement.
But just how do all those things come together relative to the decisions that were made? Sure.
Well with respect to the CFO search I'm very hopeful that we'll be making an announcement in the near future.
So please stay tuned for that.
With respect to the actions that we announced last night we have a deep team here.
The guy who's speaking to you now used to be the CFO here so I've had to relearn a few functions that I hadn't spent some time with.
But the issues that we're dealing with in terms of capital structure uses of cash and so forth we've had the appropriate amount of analysis and consideration.
We've had great discussions and support by our board.
And so we'll move forward and when the new CFO comes on board that person will be picking up the baton here and running with it.
And frankly I can't imagine there being a better time to be coming on board our company.
You asked about the credit agreement.
We did redo the credit agreement to provide us significantly more flexibility in our -- with respect to our balance sheet and our uses of cash.
The agreement that we had a year ago was perfectly appropriate for a more highly leveraged company undertaking a large acquisition.
Now that we've digested that we've paid down the debt we're generating the cash at the rates that we are and our balance sheet is in the shape it's in it's time to redo it.
We've added the flexibility and we've reduced the cost by doing that.
And the next question comes from the line of David Silver from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I had a question I guess about marketing and the prepay programs.
So if I look at the June 30 balance sheet in the customer advances column it's a number just over $400 million.
And that compares 12 months ago I guess with a number of $11 million.
And I'm not 100% sure but I think that that $400 million largely represents maybe 20% or 25% or 33% deposits.
So could you comment on in light of the customer advances total on your balance sheet what does that imply for I guess prepay business through fall or next spring? Or what does that $400 million figure substan -- 40x a year ago what does that imply? I'll ask Bert to perhaps elaborate on this but in general it implies that we and our customers have come to a meeting of the minds that the availability of product and the price at which we're offering it makes sense on a forward basis.
And it's a different situation than we were in a year ago when there was a lot more uncertainty in the market.
Anything you...
I think it's a reflection also of 2 different obviously not calendar years but markets.
If you remember last year in June we'd just brought the companies together and the price expectations for UAN specifically UAN were around $155 NOLA.
That was unacceptable to CF and so we decided to continue with our consistent program of offering products that were needed and going on for top dress and we took our inventory down -- or built our inventory excuse me and took our order book down to a very low level.
I think it was $12 million as you referenced.
Today it's very different.
We have a very positive market very strong grain market and oilseeds that are driving not only the United States but the markets around the world.
And so our customers and their customers which would be the farmer has come in has contracted some of those tons and that has worked its way back up through the value chain to where we're selling and have an acceptable book on it $400-plus million.
So we're very encouraged by that.
But coupled with that are the gas markets.
And the NYMEX has been extremely positive.
As we mentioned earlier $3.95 for September.
So when you put all that together we have a very nice forward book but a nice call on our raw material costs and a nice outlook for the grain markets.
And then one other question I guess about I guess your discretionary capital comment that was in the release today about $1 billion to $1.5 billion over the next 4 years.
In the past you've discussed a potential greenfield project in terms of I guess needing comfort or confidence in cap and trade or other environmental rules.
And I'm just wondering I think a greenfield North American plant might be in that $1 billion to $1.5 billion range of discretionary capital.
And from an environmental risk perspective or environmental regulations is there any appreciable difference of how existing plants that are debottlenecked would be treated as opposed to a new greenfield plant? In other words do the reg -- is there a steeper regulatory burden or greater liability for cap and trade purposes or anything like that? David my general comment is yes there is a difference and that's a significant consideration in the portfolio we're putting forward.
And I'll ask Tony to make a couple of comments about that.
Yes some of the biggest issues are where we go after some of these debottlenecking opportunities.
It's not only capacity expansion but there's also efficiency projects that go along hand-in-hand with that which is how you debottleneck the plant.
And so there are natural offsets that we get from an emission standpoint.
And there are other things that we look out throughout the entire site to offset emissions from higher production at the same time.
So we have a lot more levers that we can pull maintaining an overall emissions footprint at an existing facility than we did -- than we would if we were building a greenfield.
And David the other specific point I would add is to the extent we convert ammonia into upgraded product we're actually releasing less CO2 from our ammonia plants.
And the next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
To go back to your share repurchase for a moment do you expect to complete your share repurchase program by the end of 2013? Well our authorization runs through 2013.
I can't predict what's going to happen in the marketplace.
But I will remind you that when we did the share repurchase in 2008 and I know I've talked about this a number of times because we tend to only want to announce things that we intend to do.
We announced that program.
It was a $0.5 billion program which was a very substantial undertaking for us at that time given our size.
We completed that program in about 12 or 13 trading days.
So I'm not predicting in this case but we wouldn't announce the program if we didn't intend to do it.
Okay.
All things being equal do you expect your nitrogen demand in the fourth quarter to be lower than in the year-ago period given that we've had such a late planting this year in corn and we had such an early planting the year before? Bert? There are several issues that impact not only the corn coming off but -- because a lot of ammonia is applied on beans but the weather when ammonia can be put down.
So if we had the continuation of the heat that is driving the maturation of the corn I would expect that we would have an acceptable fall because corn acreage will be up and corn on corn will need the nitrogen.
But we're very positive for the fall but I can't give you a specific number.
The next question comes from the line of Elaine Yip from Credit Suisse.
Can you comment on whether there's a difference between nitrogen buying and phosphate buying in the marketplace? It seems that when we look at this historical relationship between corn prices and nutrient prices nitrogen looks extremely affordable relative to corn while phosphate is starting to look a bit expensive.
Do your customers and farmers look at the prices of individual nutrients or for like the cost aggregate? Given where our crop prices are today I think every nutrient is affordable and there's every incentive in place for farmers to apply optimal levels.
That may not be the case in some very very fringe markets.
That may not be the case in some other parts of the world.
But in the heart of our market that's for sure the case.
And then in Phosphate there have been reports on phosphate imports coming into the U.S.
Can you comment on whether or not these are pretty normal or how that compares to historical import levels? Bert? Well last year we did receive -- or I'd say last fertilizer year receive a significant -- a record level of imports from various countries.
And it's interesting the impact that that had and the desire of customers to purchase that imported product.
But I do think it's -- we have a moving market.
Just as we exported in 2010 early 2010 calendar year to China from the United States we also had the need due to substantial also exports to India to bring product into the United States.
And I think as you're seeing agrafa [ph] shut down and that rock import's being replaced by DAP from Morocco there are several moving parts to that.
On a normal year it does not make sense because we are a large producer in the United States with out -- and our competitive structure we are going to continue as an industry to export.
So as we balance those going I think through time you'll see less imports into the United States.
Okay.
And then finally can you comment on corn use demand for ethanol and what your view is on the impact from the expiration of the ethanol; tax credit and import tariffs and that's why -- what we expect [ph] this year? Well we believe that what really drives the demand for ethanol is the renewable fuel standard.
If you watch the total production of ethanol over a period of time we have seen actually production in excess of the mandated amount under the renewable fuel standard which obviously suggests that it's economic for ethanol to be blended in the gasoline mix.
So we don't believe that the blender's credit is the linchpin of that support.
And we'd certainly recognize the political reality in Washington.
I think it's likely that eventually that's going to go away and that the import tariff will go away.
But it's really the renewable fuel standard that is supportive of corn demand.
And the next question comes from the line of Ben Isaacson from Scotia Capital.
Just a quick question on urea volume year-over-year.
It came in 7% lower than last year and I would have expected it to have been kind of flat at worst.
And perhaps you can just help me understand the regional differences in demand between urea and UAN? Just a general comment about our volumes in the second quarter.
We basically shipped everything we made.
And so while I'd like to say we have slack in our system we had everything running flat out.
With respect to specifics and regions Bert you want to handle that? Well there are also times when we will fluctuate between urea and UAN at individual plants that you may not see in the numbers.
But regarding regional differences we do have a heavy urea demand in the northern territories in Canada as well as for the rice market in Arkansas and some in -- for urea top dress in Oklahoma and Texas and those regions.
And UAN is generally -- could be also be used on top dress for wheat and is as well as in the corn markets which are the central corn states of Nebraska stretching through to Ohio.
And so those would be the regional differences probably.
But we'd have to draw down on inventory for urea and as we've mentioned we produced at a very high rate and our inventory decreased during the quarter.
And then Ben to be very specific we have a unit at Donaldsonville that has an ability to switch fairly easily between urea and UAN.
And so we could find even within a quarter switching back and forth between max urea and max UAN a couple of times.
So it's a function of which product is the strongest and what our relative supply position is with respect to the highest value product.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Steve 2 questions.
First with your system flexibility and the results you're obviously getting out of it I'm curious if you're changing the way you manage working capital very much from the pre-Terra days? And along those lines I'm wondering whether the strength in your marketing group now means that you have more visibility in demand to help you move faster or is there just something different in the way you're managing it.
Well we have a great team and our supply chain and salespeople are located together and they have interaction with our manufacturing people on a continuous basis.
So we are in a constant mode of optimizing our system.
And I think the results that we generated this quarter is reflective of great teamwork great coordination good communication and an ability to move very quickly.
We've had to go in a little bit of zigzagging here and there and I think we've done it very effectively.
With respect to working capital we've been in a great position most of the time in recent years where our customers have provided a good support to our working capital through our -- through their customer deposits.
We run our -- we run as many businesses do with as little inventory as we can while still meeting customer demand.
And I think we've been pretty effective with that.
If you look at our inventory levels over time I think they're constant to declining and yet we're not losing sales.
So we're pleased with our configuration and how we operate.
Are we perfect? Absolutely not.
We can always do better and we're working at it everyday to get better.
Pretty good so far.
One more question.
You're in good shape on your phosphate reserves and such but as you watch Mosaic and what's unwinding in Florida do you see a need to accelerate your permitting process the way they do? I know you got what another 9 years of reserves in the process now or so.
We have about 13 years of fully permitted reserves at our current mining rate.
We are well into the permitting process on our additional 9 or 10 years' worth of reserves.
We know it's a complex process.
We know there are a lot of interested parties.
We know that we have friends and we also have opponents.
We work very hard to engage everyone who's interested to understand their positions to work towards an end point where we can mine and realize the value of our resource.
We're involved now in an area-wide environmental impact assessment.
That is one of the issues that's prominent in the Mosaic situation.
Frankly as I've said before we're a beneficiary of their experience.
And I will add what I've said before and that is we're not happy about the Mosaic situation.
We think that their permit was appropriately obtained and they should be able to operate under it.
The next question comes from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann from Goldman Sachs.
So on the CapEx investment the incremental investment that you highlighted over the next 4 years I was hoping maybe you could bucket those investments into the big areas or what the largest pieces are whether it's bottlenecking versus upgrading? And what sort of incremental capacity or even returns on investment you would expect to make? Well Lindsay we're at the very beginning of that process.
We've identified roughly some opportunities at specific facilities.
Now we're going to roll up our sleeves and do some detailed work.
We'll be doing FEED studies on individual projects.
We'll be looking at the market impact and opportunity associated with these projects.
And so it's too early to put numbers on specific projects.
But I will give you a little history to give you a sense for what we've done in the past.
In 1993 we completed a reconfiguration at Donaldsonville that cost $87 million.
And that was in dollars of -- in 1990s dollars okay? We got for that about 240 000 tons of urea and 440 000 tons of UAN.
So that was strictly an upgrade project taking ammonia to urea and UAN.
Five years later in 1998 we spent $305 million again in 1990s dollars.
For that we -- and this is the unit where we have the flexibility I referred to earlier.
If we max urea we can get 910 000 tons of urea.
If we max UAN we get 500 000 tons of urea and about 1.1 million tons of UAN.
So that will give you at least a rough idea of the kinds of dollars that buy additional output.
These projects for us have generated returns in the mid to high teens in the past.
Now at least one of these projects the second one came on at a really bad time in the market.
So the first few years our cash flows were not what they've been in years since.
So the return on that second project is not as high as what we would expect these projects to generate given our outlook in the business.
So these are things we've done before and we look forward to scoping them out and reaching good sound economic decisions.
That's really helpful.
So is it fair to say that none of these are really shovel ready that you're still sort of early on? It sounds like you're relatively early on in the process.
None of them are shovel-ready correct.
Okay.
And then as far as opportunities to invest in the Phosphate business is there anything there that is in your plan? Well we have an allocation of about $300 million of general CapEx for our total business that include normal sort of maintain the assets and add improvements in our processes.
So phosphate is included in that.
We have looked at and continue to look at uranium recovery.
And it's a project that technically we know we can do.
We know pretty much what it would cost.
But we need a little positive clarity with respect to the long-term price of uranium.
Nuclear power generation in the U.S.
and every place in the world is being questioned and the price of urea -- of uranium has suffered because of that.
And we're doing some product expansions within Phosphate.
We're doing a sulphur-added product and that's going to be brought to market later this year.
And it's not a major undertaking but it's a significant expansion in our capability and it's one that the market welcomes.
Great.
And then lastly just in light of some of the anxiety we've had about global risk assets do you have a sense of how sensitive nitrogen prices are to oil? Bert you want to...
I wouldn't say they're necessarily correlated to oil.
What you've seen in China is probably a urea correlation to coal.
Because as you import coal you're basically replacing that energy or turning that energy into urea.
You've seen a resistance to export through the tax base.
But a correlation to -- I would say you had a higher correlation to grain.
And the next question comes from the line of Mark Gulley from Ticonderoga Securities.
Couple of questions.
First of all I realize you can't allocate your $1.5 billion thereabouts in capacity expansions to individual products.
But to put it in context Steve what would a world-scale ammonia complex cost these days in the Gulf Coast just to try to size your expenditure relative to a benchmark? Well a world-scale ammonia/urea complex on a developed site is probably in the range of $1.5 billion.
Okay.
So your investment program is about equivalent to what that would cost if you were going to do that? In terms of the cost.
Right.
Second question is with respect to short term.
If normal weather had prevailed how much shipments did you lose? I think your nitrogen shipments were down 4%.
What could they have been had you not had those constraints? I'm very tempted to say that we lost 0.
We met every commitment we made to our customers.
We ran our plants as hard as we could.
We came out of the quarter with relatively low inventories.
So I view this quarter as a great success.
We had to scramble to do it.
It was a good test for our team and they rose to the challenge quite well.
And then lastly I want to come back to this greenfield ammonia complex again if I can from a different angle.
If you were to apply to upgrade a substantial portion of the ammonia all the way to urea and UAN would that get you under the wire with respect to the carbon footprint? Or are you still pretty far away? Well look first of all we don't know what CO2 regulation will be.
So for example if we were to build an ammonia plant and not build any upgrading we know how much CO2 we would produce and we suspect that whatever comes out of the EPA would be directed at that CO2 production.
If we upgrade if we take that CO2 and convert it into urea and/or UAN we don't know even whether that CO2 would be subject to regulation.
And if it is -- if it were to be where in the process it would be regulated and where the cost would be.
The cost of that -- those credits or whatever would be incurred.
It doesn't appear as though the regulators would view CO2 being captured in urea as being so-called sequestration of carbon.
But we don't know that for a fact and so it's really -- there are 2 dimensions here.
One is the uncertainty and the second is not being able to know even if we -- when we have certainty what that certainty will be.
It isn't timing.
It's timing and substance.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Terry Huch for closing remarks.
Thank you Carmen.
We'd like to thank everyone who participated on the call today.
If you need more information about CF Industries or our results please contact me.
Thank you.
This concludes the presentation for today ladies and gentlemen.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the third quarter 2011 CF Industries Holdings Inc.
results.
My name is Erin and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Terry Huch Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Erin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Terry Huch Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Vice President of Sales and Marketing; Tony Will our Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution; and Rich Hoker our Vice President and Corporate Controller.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its third quarter 2011 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company LP.
On this call we will review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the forward-looking statements included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Terry and welcome to all of you who are joining the call today.
I'd like to start the call by welcoming our new CFO Dennis Kelleher.
As you know we took our time to find the right person to fill this critical position.
I'm very pleased that we were able to land someone of Dennis' caliber.
He and his team have had the opportunity to compile some very good numbers this quarter.
Last night CF Industries reported third quarter net earnings of $331 million or $4.73 per diluted share on sales of $1.4 billion all third quarter records.
As was the case in the second quarter we operated in a great market environment during July August and September.
Also like the second quarter our team was able to execute well utilizing our very flexible asset base to take advantage of the opportunities the market presented.
In the third quarter we reported earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization of $640 million corresponding to a 45% gross margin.
As most of you know the crop nutrient application cadence in the northern hemisphere typically makes the third quarter our weakest quarter.
The fact that we were able to generate more than $600 million of EBITDA in our slowest period seasonally highlights the earnings potential of this company and the kind of year we're having in 2011.
The backdrop for these great results is familiar to all of you by now: high crop nutrient prices supported by strong demand and some supply constraints; natural gas costs that are stable at levels far below their average for the last decade.
Third quarter demand for our products received a boost from the outstanding spring we had just completed.
The U.S.
had the second largest planting of corn on record large plantings of other crops and a very long spring application season which extended into July.
The resulting large crop nutrient application depleted distributor and retail inventories and left our customers needing to replenish their stocks in the third quarter.
Their motivation to do so was high with a fall season looming that has a potential to be excellent as farmers flush with cash from a record-breaking year gear up to plant over 90 million acres of corn again in 2012.
We also benefited from strong international demand for nitrogen and phosphate products.
I mentioned in our August call that India had been delaying  required purchases of urea and their buyers continued to do so through September.
But the awareness that they would have to return to the market helped support urea prices during the quarter.
After the quarter ended Indian buyers stepped forward and purchased 1.7 million metric tons of urea essentially buying all near-term production that didn't already have a home.
And they don't appear to be finished yet.
Global supply of urea continued to be limited by the same factors that were in play during the second quarter.
Chinese export tariffs reduced urea exports by 43% compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Urea exports were only 1.2 million metric tons in the first 3 months of the 4-month low-tariff period which ended earlier this week.
Nitrogen fertilizer supply also was constrained by reduced gas availability in some regions most notably Trinidad and Pakistan and a higher overall level of unplanned outages than experienced in 2010.
We believe this supported prices in the third quarter and also resulted in relatively low global ammonia and urea inventories at the end of the quarter and now.
The very attractive product prices available to us in the third quarter were paired with falling spot natural gas costs allowing us to achieve very good nitrogen margins both for products sold on a spot basis in the quarter and for newly booked forward contracts.
We're pleased with the continuing moderate gas costs and the increased stability that added shale gas supply has brought.
Very good agricultural markets strong crop nutrient demand constrained product supply and moderate gas costs make our operating team's job sound pretty easy but there are always challenges.
In the third quarter the biggest of these was the aftermath of the Missouri River flooding.
Our team at Port Neal Iowa did a particularly great job of anticipating the flooding protecting the nitrogen complex at the flood's peak and bringing it back up to full production even while it was nearly surrounded by water.
About 60 miles south of Port Neal closures of the 2 ammonia pipelines made it more difficult for producers to get ammonia to terminals in preparation for the fall season.
Fast-moving waters scoured the bottom of the Missouri River during the flood stage exposing the pipelines and forcing them out of service at the river crossings.
This was a logistical challenge for some ammonia producers but less so for us because of our scale and transportation flexibility.
The Verdigris Oklahoma complex was able to continue to serve our terminals to the west of the river via the Magellan pipeline while the Donaldsonville Louisiana complex served points east by way of the NuStar pipeline.
At the same time our supply chain team continued to leverage its access to barge rail and truck transport to optimize delivery of ammonia to our terminals.
Good execution also was visible in our production levels.
Our team was able to run the nitrogen system at 100% of our stated capacity for the third consecutive quarter and our phosphate operations at 99%.
The result of good execution under very favorable market conditions was record Q3 EBITDA as I mentioned earlier.
And operating cash flow was about $400 million higher than EBITDA primarily due to a large increase in customer deposits.
It's normal to have significant growth in the order book during the third quarter as customers prepare for fall.
The dollar increase this year was made larger by higher product prices.
Still you can see from our balance sheet that there was an appetite on the part of many of our customers to book forward business during the third quarter rather than remain exposed for the upcoming season.
The result of strong cash earnings and forward orders was the first $1 billion quarterly operating cash flow in the company's history.
The cash deployment actions we outlined last quarter were designed with the expectation of very strong cash flow and actual results did not disappoint.
Those announced actions included an increase in our regular dividend a plan to invest in projects that will increase our domestic nitrogen capacity and a share repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion worth of our common stock over 2.5 years.
Since that announcement in August we've kicked off several Front-End Engineering and Design studies for debottlenecking and product upgrading projects.
We think we have some great opportunities ahead but the bulk of the spending will occur after the studies are completed and the individual projects are approved.
The area in which we already have deployed a large amount of cash is the share repurchase program.
To date we have spent $1 billion and repurchased 9% of our previously outstanding shares.
The market gave us what we considered attractive windows in which to acquire those shares.
Still our cash balance continued to grow in the third quarter because operating cash flow outweighed our repurchases in the period.
We'll continue to apply the same thoughtful and disciplined approach to cash deployment in the months ahead.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dennis for a few more comments on our financial performance.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to speak to you for the first time as CF Industries' Chief Financial Officer.
It's certainly an excellent time to be in the plant nutrient business.
Since joining the company in August I have focused my attention on getting up to speed in our business operations our team and our financial position.
I've been impressed with the quality and capability of our people the strength of our business model and our strong shared commitment to operate in a safe compliant and responsible manner.
These strengths continue to be reflected in our financial results.
During the third quarter of 2011 the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $331 million or $4.73 per diluted share.
This compares to $48 million or $0.67 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2010.
Our third quarter 2011 EPS included a non-cash impairment charge of $0.31 related to the permanent shutdown and removal of the methanol plant at our Woodward Oklahoma nitrogen complex a non-cash mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives of $0.12 and other small items detailed on Slide 7.
Steve took you through some of the drivers of the strong pricing environment that underpinned our earnings performance in the third quarter.
It's unusual for crop nutrient prices to maintain or exceed spring levels during the summer months when there is very limited application activity in the Northern Hemisphere.
The very favorable supply/demand balance that existed this past summer made that possible and led to year-over-year price increases of 40% or more for ammonia urea UAN DAP and MAP.
Our nitrogen business had an outstanding third quarter.
We delivered 3 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin percentage of 49% which you can see on Slide 5.
In addition to much higher nitrogen selling prices the increase in segment gross margin reflects slightly higher sales volumes compared to a year ago.
During the third quarter we sold nearly 1.6 million tons of UAN which is an increase of 9% compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Average UAN price realizations increased to $319 per ton or 70% compared to the third quarter of 2010.
The late and protracted spring planting season increased the value of UAN's greater application flexibility contributing to strong restocking demand after the second quarter drew to a close.
Similarly third quarter sales of granular urea increased by 10% year-over-year to 701 000 tons.
Our average realized price of $425 per ton was 60% higher than in the third quarter of 2010 and 9% higher than in the second quarter of 2011.
During the third quarter of 2011 we sold 403 000 tons of ammonia at an average realized price of $552 per ton.
Ammonia sales volume for the third quarter of 2011 was 21% lower than a year ago due largely to our decision to reduce quarterly commitments for industrial sales.
Agricultural sales were also lower due in part to drought conditions in the Southern Plains.
Our average realized sales price for ammonia was 40% higher than in the third quarter of last year.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 both agricultural and industrial market prices were higher but our average realization declined because agricultural ammonia is a much smaller portion of our sales mix in the third quarter.
Ammonium nitrate sales of 243 000 tons in the quarter were about 7% lower than in the third quarter of 2010 and prices were 33% higher.
The average daily market price for natural gas at Henry Hub was $4.13 per MMBtu $0.16 lower than the same period last year.
Realized natural gas costs average $4.45 per MMBtu up slightly from the third quarter of last year when we had virtually no forward sales and related gas hedges booked at the beginning of the period.
As shown on Slide 6 our phosphate segment also had a very good third quarter.
We achieved a 30% gross margin nearly double the gross margin percentage reported a year ago reflecting strong demand and prices.
Total sales volume for DAP and MAP was 12% higher than in the third quarter of 2010 with domestic volume up 2% and export volume up 26%.
48% of our phosphate sales volume was exported in the third quarter because of strong buying interest and attractive net prices outside the U.S.
Phosphate price realizations during the third quarter averaged about 40% higher than in 2010.
As a result net sales for this segment were $286 million an increase of 57%.
Now I'd like to provide a few more details about our share repurchase program.
During the third quarter we repurchased 5.6 million common shares for $878 million of which $801 million had settled by the end of the quarter.
We made additional purchases in October which brought the total number of shares repurchased to date to approximately 6.5 million and the total outlay to $1 billion.
The average price we paid for these shares was $153.49 per share.
The repurchase program lowered our average share count in the third quarter by 2.4 million shares which increased our earnings per share by $0.16 in the quarter.
The impact on the fourth quarter and subsequent share counts will be larger.
The earnings release also mentioned that we're moving forward with the debottlenecking project in our Donaldsonville ammonia plant #5 which was acquired in the Terra acquisition.
This project is expected to increase the plant's ammonia production capacity by approximately 100 000 tons per year with an investment of $50 million to $60 million.
Now with that let me turn it back to Steve to discuss the outlook.
Thanks Dennis.
We all are very pleased with our third quarter results and the way things are shaping up for the rest of the year and into next spring.
In last quarter's call we mentioned the possible concern that a late harvest could compress the fall application season.
That concern now has been largely resolved.
Although we still have some lagging areas the harvest has progressed faster than average providing a good start to the fall application window.
Farm income is expected to set a new record in the 2011 growing season about 25% higher than the previous record set just last year.
Corn economics are very attractive for farmers and we're projecting that more than 93 million acres will be planted next spring.
So in a period when farmers are very liquid we appear to have a very normal or better fall application window in most of the Corn Belt ahead of a near-record expected corn planting.
That's a recipe for very good fall season if the weather cooperates.
Over the last 1.5 months we believe markets overreacted to new data points about corn stocks and estimated demand that have caused the 2011 projected stocks-to-use ratio to rise modestly.
The important thing to note is that the USDA is projecting the second lowest corn stocks-to-use ratio in 40 years based on the season average farm price of $6.70 per bushel.
If prices were to fall further more feed and export demand would develop as we actually saw in October.
This would drive stocks to an even more unsustainably low level.
It's for this reason that we don't see much risk to corn prices in the near term.
I also want to emphasize that tight coarse grain stocks are not just a U.S.
phenomenon.
Despite higher expected production in the former Soviet Union South America and China world coarse grain stocks are projected to decline by 7% in the 2011 and '12 marketing year.
And the global coarse grain stocks-to-use ratio is expected to fall to the lowest level in more than 30 years.
The wheat balance is not as tight and we may continue to see some wheat substituted as a feed grain.
We expect strong agricultural markets to continue to drive a tight supply/demand balance for all products over the next 2 quarters supporting attractive prices and margins.
Our solid forward book of business reflects this strength.
Because of recent global economic uncertainty North American buyers have been reluctant to purchase more crop nutrients than they're sure they will need for the fall.
We expect buying appetite for spring to pick up as the fall application season progresses and our customers' true needs become clearer.
So in summary we're bullish about the fall season due to high expected plantings tight nutrient balances and a good start to the application season.
Longer-term we believe agricultural fundamentals will continue to support strong crop nutrient demand for the foreseeable future.
With that let's open the call to your questions.
Erin please explain the Q&amp;A procedures.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brent Rystrom from Feltl.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
I would assume that you're getting a pretty good read on the extremely rapid anhydrous applications here in the fourth quarter just with the soil temp pretty much below 50 now everywhere in the Corn Belt.
Is that a safe assumption? Well Brent.
We have great conditions in the marketplace.
The soybean crop came off quickly.
Farmers are in the field and the weather is cooperating.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you get a sense that next year with refuge-in-a-bag becoming pretty much near mandatory that the cycle is going to be a little bit more favorable for nitrogen applications? Because I think quite a few people probably cheated on planting refuge and having refuge now in the bag is going to probably lower yield capabilities for some farmers.
I would assume that has to be favorable for nitrogen applications? Bert you want to comment on that please? Sure.
So I think in the general sense for what we're looking towards next year and I assume you mean past June of 2012 we are very positive for the issues we have articulated relative to stock-to-use ratio what is driving the farmer's decision.
But yes we are calculating that nitrogen applications and specifically to some of the areas you referenced could be very positive next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And final quick question I don't know if you guys have been watching all the corn-based ethanol plants.
You'd referenced South America and I think you were referring to the Ukraine as far corn exports.
Now there's 6 corn-based ethanol plants popping up in Argentina.
I would assume that has to favorably enter the mix for maybe acres going in a little bit higher in North America? Go ahead Bert.
Well if you're looking at corn-based ethanol in Argentina we think that's a great situation for the world and for the continued analysis of the supply and demand because in order for those plants to be economically competitive that will have to drive yields in Argentina which have been below the U.S.
yields which will then drive nitrogen applications which is positive for CF.
And so as those plants come on and convert corn into alcohol and then probably into some -- whether to DDG or a feed grain complement that is a fantastic situation for the world as Argentina exports corn.
Relative to the U.S.
in ethanol we're very positive of that story also and what the current drop in corn in October provided to the ethanol producers.
So we're positive of that market.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Picken from Cleveland Research.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess the first question that I would ask is your operating rates were particularly high especially on the phosphate side.
And as we look forward out next couple of quarters I mean how hard can you run the phosphate plant specifically on sort of an ongoing basis? Can we assume that you're going to continue to run it at that 99% rate or what's a good number to use? Good morning Mike.
We take a long-term view in the way we operate and maintain our plants and that is given the nature of this business when the sun shines we want to make hay.
And so we put money in our plants on a regular basis.
We maintain them to a high level and we intend to run them flat out consistently.
Now obviously we have scheduled turnarounds.
We're disciplined about taking those turnarounds when planned because that's the way you keep the plants ready to operate in a good environment.
Okay great.
And then just turning quickly to the nitrogen side of the business and obviously the forward curve has moved in your favor over the last couple of months.
And if you could give us any color? I know that typically you don't hedge too much beyond what you already have committed under your forward purchases but any thoughts on forward hedging of natural gas? Well our view on natural gas is bullish from a user's standpoint.
That view has been borne out and -- throughout this year.
We were looking at the script this morning and it doesn't actually resemble a curve.
It's pretty flat going out over a year.
We're comfortable with our traditional approach to fixing nitrogen margins.
The discipline that we have there is when we have a fixed-priced nitrogen order we go out and do a swap and fix the margin.
We'll continue to do that.
When prices fall we do get together and talk about whether we should consider taking positions in excess of what our nitrogen order book would require.
We have on occasion done that to a modest degree and we'll continue to look at that when the opportunity looks promising.
And your next question comes from the line of Ben Isaacson from Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> We saw the impact of La Nina last year on fertilizer demand.
I was just wondering if you could provide a little bit more history on how past La Ninas have impacted crop planting decisions by farmers and fertilizer purchasing decisions by both dealers and farmers heading into the spring? I mean now we're hearing of calls for a stronger La Nina this year.
And perhaps you could break it down a little bit on a regional basis? I'll ask Bert to handle that.
Well I think what you're seeing today reflected in the Southwest which we discussed in terms of a drop of ammonia applications for the third quarter is a reflection of decisions not to apply or to apply less crop nutrients up front and wait for the impact of moisture in those areas.
Specific to your question there -- we're in a great trend.
I'll take it on a broader sense for feed grains and what is happening and the economic decision that a farmer will make whether that be in South America or North America.
Generally it's wetter and that impacts the soybean harvest in Mato Grosso and those areas of Brazil.
But specific -- and to get as granular as you're desiring I don't have a comment on that.
And your next question comes from the line of Elaine Yip from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So a question on your ammonia volumes in the quarter.
You mentioned that they were lower because you sold less to industrial and there was some unfavorable weather impact in the Southern Plains.
Did that impact therefore the sales mix in the quarter where you upgraded more ammonia to urea UAN or do you actually have more ammonia products still available that you're deferring for 4Q delivery? Elaine I think in general we intend to sell about as much ammonia in the second half of this year as we normally sell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to your corn acreage projection of 93.5 million acres next year how do you arrive at that number? Is that your view of the maximum number of acres that could be planted with corn or could there -- or could farmers actually plant more? And if so where do you think the incremental acres could come from? I think the principal driver of our analysis is what were the economics to the corn farmer.
The economics are obviously very attractive.
There's a smaller percentage of the revenue dollar going to crop nutrients than is traditional.
There is a huge cash margin available.
And then of course we have to make some judgment about acreage that's available to plant.
There has been discussion among experts about what's the ceiling for potential corn acres.
We don't really know what that is.
It feels like it's in the -- in mid-'90s 95 million or so.
We'd like to test that someday and maybe we will next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is the final question on ethanol.
Can you talk about the potential impact from the expiration of the blender's tax credit import tariff and then what is your take on the proposed legislation to perhaps link the mandates to corn stocks-to-use levels? Sure.
Elaine we have actually planned for the expiration of the blenders' credit and the import tariff.
They're -- in order for them to stay in place they would have to be renewed by Congress.
That's a very extremely unlikely event.
Fortunately they have really not come into play recently.
What has been happening in the marketplace is that ethanol production has actually exceeded the renewable fuels mandate level for economic reasons.
We have had a situation in Brazil where ethanol has actually -- production of ethanol has been reduced in favor of more sugar production.
And that's been favorable and actually some ethanol from the U.S.
found its way into the export market to help out the Brazilians.
And then finally given where oil and gasoline prices are adding ethanol to the blend has been advantageous to the blenders.
With respect -- yes the final part of your question was about potential legislation regarding the renewable fuels mandate.
We know there are some -- there's some discussion about that.
We believe that that is a very low-probability event but we're watching it closely.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jackson from BMO Capital.
I was wondering if you could give some commentary on the inventory levels you're seeing currently at the distributors for nitrogen? Bert? I think what you're seeing in the United States we did -- after the second quarter draw down the inventory levels in United States for all products.
And we saw that reflected in the demand during the third quarter.
And specifically for UAN it was substantial.
And that obviously pulled into the fourth quarter.
And so there are no numbers on the downstream inventory through TFI or through the official groups.
But from our anecdotal evidence we think they're modest and we're very positive going forward into the spring season.
Okay.
And also with ammonia prices rising and gas pricing staying flat are you seeing any trends or -- in how you're benchmarking some of your industrial ammonia contracts? Well we obviously have been in a process of examining all of our industrial contracts as they  come up for renewal.
And we've attempted to remove the linkage to gas prices and price them more in line with our alternatives for using that ammonia.
That alternative is obviously the ag market.
So that's the direction we been headed and we've been making steady progress in that regard.
Are you able to give a bit of maybe quantitative numbers right now where your current industrial mix is in terms of the benchmark versus ammonia versus gas? We've been making really good progress towards having those prices converge and obviously the direction we want it to converge is towards the ag price.
And finally I believe you were looking into introducing a product sort of a sulphur MAP for Brazilian markets.
Do you have any update on that? Bert.
We're making progress and it's not only for the Brazilian market but also for the -- we're going to see -- we actually have demand and have had discussions with our customers in the Midwest and the Northern Plains.
We would plan on bringing that product on in the second -- I would say second quarter of 2012.
And your next question comes from the line of Charles Neivert from Dalhman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> You were discussing or were talking about I guess a number of different capital projects.
You talked about the one at Donaldsonville.
Could you care to go into some of the other ones you're thinking about? And I know it's probably a little too early to bracket dollars but can you give some idea about the size of the increases and what products might be increased and what locations are being looked at right now? It is too early to be talking granularly about our menu that we're looking at.
In general we're looking at debottlenecks such as the one that we are embarking upon at Donaldsonville.
And we're looking at product upgrades.
We have initiated some feed studies.
There are a couple of locations we're looking at.
And in terms of committed dollars we haven't authorized any additional projects.
Our allocated bundle of capital is in the $1 billion to $1.5 billion range.
And we know from our past experience that these types of projects are low-risk high-return projects and we look forward to moving on these and we'll make announcements as our analysis is completed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean is it reasonable to assume that this -- the project that you're talking about about 100 000 tons in the $50 million to $60 million area is probably one of the lowest cost of the bunch.
But are they -- are the others sort of within for lack of a better description reasonable distance of that in terms of dollars per ton of addition or can't be determined? Well I think you're right.
This is a particularly low-hanging piece of fruit because we've done this kind of work before at Donaldsonville and in other places.
So I really don't care to quantify what might come out of other projects other than we know from our own experience that these will be very attractive projects.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I guess at the top end of the range if you're talking about like new plant and I know that's not in your -- in the things that you're looking at where does new plant per ton run? Or in your opinion where does that run? I mean I've seen some pretty big some numbers on a per ton basis.
But in your -- for you guys where would that bracket around? I'll ask Tony Will to comment on that Charlie.
Charlie our view is that new plants on a world-scale basis right now are in the sort of $1 000 to $1 500 per ton range.
And as we look across our system the kind of debottlenecking opportunities that are out there across our 13 ammonia plants we believe could yield up to approximately 3 quarters-ish to a full additional ammonia plant in the form of debottlenecks.
So there is a lot of opportunities that we have out there that come at lower capital costs lower risk than going with a new plant approach.
And your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Now that China's export window is closed I think you said their urea exports were down 43%.
Do you have a similar number for DAP? And then what do you expect for 2012 given that China keeps buying more and more corn? We think their DAP exports are going to be down about 20% from last year something in that range.
This is significant drop from last year.
With respect to what they might do in the future it's our general belief that they've got issues related to feeding their own population being self-sufficient.
And so they seem to be on a path of trying to keep their production in country.
Bert do you want to add to that? I do have a comment.
Relative to DAP and phosphates the significant change in 2011 was the volume of NPs and TSPs that came out of China and generally went to South America or to India.
And the change in the export regime that is expected to take place to draw those products in in 2012 will have a huge impact a positive impact for high-end phosphates.
So looking towards what the window will be we're expecting 4-month or less window in 2012 which will again be very positive to the world markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly you talked about several brownfield expansions in nitrogen.
Are you spending any CapEx to expand and improve the ammonia logistics infrastructure? Our ammonia logistics structure is superb as is.
Now do we do tweaking at individual facilities? Yes.
For example we upgrade compressors.
We've reconfigured how we move ammonia up the river through one of our terminals in Missouri.
We do work to try to improve the efficiency in what is already a very efficient system.
These are fairly modest projects involving modest amounts of money.
But clearly we love the ammonia business and we want to make sure we're doing the best job we possibly can in it.
Research Division</strong> And lastly just a quick question on Latin America.
You're exporting more DAP and MAP to outside of the U.S.
So what are the inventories in Latin America like? I'm wondering what you expect there given that there is a trend towards more double cropping? Bert? We're very positive of what is taking place in Latin America.
Our exports as you can see were higher and they predominantly went to Central and South America.
Brazil and Argentina were the heavyweights but also the Chile and Mexico and Central America.
And so what is taking place with double cropping has 2 positive impacts to CF in the markets.
As that area increases and as the value of double cropping and the protein producers have moved north into Mato Grosso the value of those crops and the basis that has taken place with corn has been a net positive for the corn producer in Brazil.
Relative to that is -- we talked about earlier in Argentina the yields on that second crop corn has traditionally been a cover crop in years past as then farmers value as they are economically valuing that crop in the United States.
In Brazil to achieve a higher yield the impact to the fertilizer market and we hope to CF Industries will be a higher nitrogen level to take it from let's say an 80 90 bushel per acre average maybe up 120 or 130 which -- and we think they can consume because of the low level of exports relative to their total production of corn.
So we are very positive what is taking place and what that will mean to the N-P-K producers of the world.
And your next question comes from the line of Andrew O'Connor [ph] from Harris Investments.
I wanted to know -- Steve can you quantify how low CF's plant product inventory currently is? Or give some more perspective on this that is -- is the current plant product inventory would it be at a 3-year low a 5-year low or how should we think about it? Well our inventory position is generally right where we want it to be.
We plan to serve our customers' needs.
We have a great system to move product to customers.
We have a lot of flexibility about which plants supply which customers.
We think overall we're certainly capable of running with less inventory relatively than we had let's say 5 or 6 years ago because we've sharpened our pencils and been more precise.
And we've also now have a bigger array of assets.
And so -- and we're able to be nimble in meeting demand.
But we've got product to provide our customers and we're pleased with our position.
Okay fine.
And then as a follow-on to a prior question regarding corn acres for 2012 do you have a sense for where the incremental addition of 1.6 million acres would come from by geography or by state or can you hazard a guess that way? Bert? The incremental acreage has generally come in.
If you look at a map over the last 10 years the growth in North Dakota and the Dakotas has been substantial.
And also the Western Kansas -- or excuse me Eastern Kansas Eastern Oklahoma regions also where generally dry land has gone into corn acreage.
And so your incremental acreage this is an issue as those incremental acres come in they're in marginal acres.
And then yields are then lower which can tend to bring the trend yield down..That would be one concern.
But...
And then also we've had some normally-planted acres that didn't get planted last year because of flooding or got washed out or -- so if the weather cooperates and the economics continue the way they are we ought to have a good shot at hitting that acreage number.
And your next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez [ph] from Lazard Capital Management.
You mentioned the sales mix in ammonia as a key factor for the lower sequential prices.
Can you give us a sense of how much was industrial this quarter? And typically what does the mix look like in Q4? Roughly -- in the third quarter it was roughly half of each.
And in Q4 it ought to be more like 2 to 1 ag something like that.
Okay that makes sense.
And also just one quick question in terms of like forward sales.
Like when you look ahead to the spring planting season like have you singled out a pre buy-in for that? I mean over the past few months what does it look like in terms of like your order book for the spring? Bert? Our order book is positive.
We're actually pleased with our order book allowing us to bridge this current quiet time in the market.
October has been quiet and that's almost worldwide except for India due to the issues taking place in Europe and oscillations in the restrictions on credit.
And I think our order book will allow -- I know it will allow us to bridge that period.
People are starting the call and request and seek tons for the spring and I expect by December that will take place.
And your next question comes from the line of Don Carson from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just Steve a question just on capital deployment.
You've aggressively completed 2/3 of your share repurchase program.
You've quadrupled the dividend but still you have significant free cash flow even over and above your debottleneck.
So I guess 2-fold question.
One is the share repurchase program just a one-off or is there a plan to have this as a regular use of a certain amount of your free cash flow? And your yield -- while you quadrupled your dividend your yield is still only 1%.
And certainly a lot of other commodity cyclicals are up in the 3% 4% range.
So I just wondered if you could comment on both ongoing dividend level as well as future share repurchase plans? Thanks for the question.
These are wonderful questions.
We made our announcement in August of our capital deployment program and it wasn't 6 weeks later we were meeting with investors and we were being asked the same kind of question that you just asked.
That's an indication that we're in a great business at a great time and generating lots of cash.
We will continue to look at the menu of cash deployment alternatives in front of us investment in the business inside the fence buying assets and the cash deployment actions that you talked about with respect to shareholders' dividends and share buybacks.
When we have made those decisions we will be announcing them.
But we'll continue to take the same disciplined approach that we've taken in the past.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And on -- a follow-up on internal cash deployment.
You've been very reluctant in the past and I guess you've continued to be about building new capacity.
And you cite uncertainty over potential EPA carbon taxes.
So is it really uncertainty over those -- what those carbon taxes might be or is it uncertainty over what you could get a long-term source of natural gas for? And is permitting an issue at all when you go to debottleneck existing plants? I mean is the EPA threatening carbon taxation on that additional output or are you grandfathered under your current permits? Okay.
I'll take a crack at some of this and we'll see if we can do this in 10 or 15 minutes.
We've talked on our calls about greenfield opportunities.
And we know that the specter of the EPA looms over us with respect to new capacity.
We don't really know what the impact would be of a big addition to CO2.
We would have go for new permits and that would be a tough process.
On the other hand should we have clarity and positive clarity in that regard we have pretty good head start on what a new operation would look like because we spend a fair amount of money on our Peru project and we would just pick up that design essentially and apply that hardware to one of our existing sites presumably or a new site and we would be off and running.
So it wouldn't be like we would be in the starting block.
We would be part way around the track when that clarity came.
And then I guess I would add to that just to -- just a thought about what we talked about earlier.
The projects that we are considering doing now are high-return projects which are likely to have higher returns in a greenfield project.
So we're doing the best stuff available to us right now.
And by and large we think we can tuck that inside of our existing permit structure but we have to look at each one of them individually with respect to national local and state permitting.
The -- with respect to long-term gas we like the operating environment that we have in North America right now.
The gas fundamentals are terrific.
I happened to be on a panel last week with 3 shale gas producers.
And they are very bullish from our perspective about the amount of gas they are producing.
They're very interested in ginning up more demand for their product.
And when I hear that it makes me more interested in buying gas at today's prices or ongoing spot prices so that the price at which a long-term contract might be available to us is probably a price that we wouldn't want to pay.
And Tony do you want to add a comment or 2? Yes.
The only thing I'd say about the permitting side is obviously any time we increase production or make changes at one of our sites we have to go through a permitting process.
If we trip certain thresholds then that requires a more complicated process unless we are able to offset at the local site.
And a few of the debottlenecks that we're looking at because of the volume of ammonia that is being produced and the amount of CO2 then that is generated as a result of that process will require some more detailed permitting.
But we believe that we've got a pathway to get through that.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Gulley from Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One is with regard to the distribution system versus your production of nitrogen.
Since you're sold out does it make any sense at all to purchase for resale and distribution through your system additional nitrogen particularly anticipating the increases in your own production that are -- will be coming down the road? Well Mark we do augment our ammonia production on a sporadic basis.
We can do that effectively and we do that as part of our decisions about what product mix to produce at Donaldsonville.
We have terrific flexibility there.
We can switch to a certain extent between urea and UAN and we can dial back or dial up upgrading.
Of course in today's market we do want to produce as much as we can.
In terms of buying product on the open market and moving it up through the system remember that these are commodities to trade at world prices world clearing prices.
And so doing that kind of thing for a couple of bucks a ton is really not what we're all about.
We're about making product and realizing the very very attractive manufacturing margins available in the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly and kind of segueing from your answer I know you like to sell ammonia for fall application but you really like to sell urea and UAN for spring application because the margins are higher.
From a marketing perspective can you talk a little bit about what you're doing to entice farmers to understand the benefits of applying nitrogen when the corn needs it in the spring and fall and not in the fall when it's 6 months away from growing? Sure.
Let me make a brief comment general comment and then I'll turn it over to Bert.
From an overall standpoint we -- we're a big player in all 3 forms of nitrogen.
We don't know what field conditions and weather are going to develop through each season.
And so we are -- we want to be available to serve whatever need might come to the marketplace and we think we're great at being nimble with respect to products not just with respect to locations.
In terms of the general market? Well further to that comment I think our focus is we're constantly trying to understand the drivers from an economic position of where the best place and where is the best -- what is the best time to put our products to market.
And so for that reason during the third quarter you saw that we did not export UAN because we felt it was better to stay in the United States and work with our distributor wholesaler customers.
In terms of enticing farmers that is not our business.
We -- although we do have conversations with some large producers in the United States we want them and we're -- we want them to focus on applying the product at the right time with the right product that is the best yield enhancer for their products.
And so in that sense that's why we're fairly well balanced among the 3 even if you want to include ammonium nitrate the 4 nitrogen nutrients.
And so that's our focus is understanding where in the regions that -- specifically corn because that has such a big draw on nitrogen where will it will be grown and where we need to distribute and position our products to capture those markets.
And obviously the basis of your question will be factors that we look at in making decisions about our future upgrading products.
Where is the demand growth where are the best margins and how can we achieve the best mix possible.
And that will be a complicated set of decisions but it's a set that we really look forward to addressing.
And your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrew for Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up on the share repurchase question.
I guess that's -- not that you intend to do another one but is there any limitation on the amount of stock that you can purchase whether it's in the calendar year 2011 or over the course of next year just as a function of your existing debt covenant? Yes.
This is Dennis Kelleher.
The revolving credit agreement that we've got has got certain restricted payment baskets that sort of limit the pace at which we can do these things.
Looking ahead -- and this is not to telegraph anything at all it's just looking ahead -- if we were to find that in any circumstance that those restrictions may be too restrictive in terms of the pace at which we might do things we would seek to either amend that agreement or to replace it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you think the flexibility would be there to do something like that.
And just a follow-up on that Steve or Dennis the last couple of times that we've talked about this the goal is ultimately to have net debt to EBITDA of about 1.5x the mid-cycle amount of EBITDA you expect to generate.
If you'd like to put a number on what mid-cycle is that'd be great.
My guess is that you won't but where do you stand on that leverage level today? We're substantially below it.
Research Division</strong> But I know that but where you stand on wanting to get -- where do you want to get to? Again it's a long-term perspective.
It's a leverage level that we are comfortable with in a steady-state.
It would be a basis from which we could do a major strategic transaction.
We can handle a major downturn.
There's no magic to how we came to that.
It's part science and part art.
And we don't know when we'll get to that in part because we don't know what the environment will be several years out.
We frankly like the challenge of getting to that from the point at which we're operating today.
That's a great place to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly could you Steve talk about sort of how you see supply and demand sort of globally playing out over the course of the next 12 months whether it's -- you talked a little bit earlier about -- it doesn't sound like you think China is going to re-export anything on the nitrogen side.
But what about -- how do you see Trinidad and Pakistan and the Middle East playing out over the next 12 months or so from a supply perspective? Well the Trinidadians have some issues on gas supply.
We operate down there.
We're not quite sure whether these are short-term bumps in the road or whether it's something more systemic and that we hope to get clarity in the months ahead.
The issues that they have in Pakistan seem very serious.
They've got hardware there they can't operate because they don't have gas supply.
And that's obviously comforting to us from a business standpoint.
It's not so good for the Pakistanis.
And then overall globally we all know we have a number of projects coming on in 2012.
They'll come on probably on a fairly ratable basis.
And the market has shown a remarkable ability to digest these bubbles in the past and I suspect that that will occur here.
I will now turn the call over to Terry Huch for closing remarks.
We'd like to thank everyone who participated on the call today.
If any of you need more information about CF Industries or our results please contact me.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CF Industries Fourth Quarter 2011 Results Call.
My name is Chantale and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Terry Huch Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I am Terry Huch the Head of Investor Relations and with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing; and Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its fourth quarter and full year 2011 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company LP.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by Federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the forward-looking statements included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce you to Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Terry and welcome to all of you who are joining the call today.
I'm sure you all saw the excellent results we published for the fourth quarter.
Before we walk you through these results I want to cover a couple of points.
First I want to recognize Terry who as many of you already know is in the midst of a transition to a new bigger assignment of directing all of our natural gas and sulfur purchasing.
He has done a great job leading our IR efforts for the last 2.5 years and has set a high bar for his successor who we hope to identify soon.
I'd also like to take a moment to reflect on what we accomplished in 2011.
For the year we had record production sales volume revenue earnings EPS and cash flow.
In doing so we've proved that we have solidified the platform that was created by acquiring and integrating Terra Industries.
We demonstrated our proficiency in operating that greatly improved platform.
And I believe our focus on execution allowed us to extract every advantage from it.
In 2011 we improved in key areas that already were strengths including revenue and margin optimization production excellence best practice sharing and safety.
We thrive even in the toughest stretches of the year because of what I will call robustness synergies meaning that our expanded scale and flexibility put us in the strongest competitive position when demand was delayed when product mix changed and when transportation became difficult.
In 2011 we produced $3 billion of EBITDA which is very gratifying because it equaled an internal goal the management team had discussed earlier in the year.
Abundant cash flow has been allowing us to do everything we want to do simultaneously: improve the balance sheet distribute cash to shareholders and invest in the growth of the business.
During 2011 we retired the last of our acquisition-related term loans.
We distributed over $1 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and reallocated funds for significant capital projects for both the near and long term.
We completed a major expansion at our Woodward Oklahoma nitrogen facility where we are now upgrading an additional 200 000 tons per year of ammonia to higher value UAN.
We laid all the groundwork needed to start production a few months from now of a unique sulfur-enhanced phosphate product that our customers are very excited about.
We approved and commenced a project to expand ammonia production at Donaldsonville 500 000 tons per year.
We announced that we had earmarked an additional $1 billion to $1.5 billion for other capital projects within our existing nitrogen complexes in North America.
And we increased the number of plants producing Diesel Exhaust Fluid from 1 to 3 soon to be 4 and put in place the corresponding distribution infrastructure.
So we had a great year and we've positioned ourselves for a great future.
Financial markets took note of that rewarding our shareholders with total returns far in excess of market indices and our peers in 2011.
Our primary focus will continue to be on delivering outstanding financial results safely and responsibly which we believe will lead to the kind of returns that our owners expect.
Last night CF Industries reported fourth quarter net earnings of $439 million or $6.66 per diluted share on sales of $1.7 billion all fourth quarter records.
We're very proud of these results especially considering the decline we saw in market demand and prices during November and December.
This gave us a chance to show that the lag in our average prices caused by forward selling does work in both directions.
Despite the stiff declines in reported market prices our average selling prices for ammonia urea and UAN increased by 9% to 15% from the third quarter to the fourth.
But there was more to our margin management than a simple lag.
As we entered the fourth quarter our order book for the period was relatively full with orders received when available margins were higher.
Spot prices were disappointing in the second half of the quarter but we didn't have much appetite for booking new business for most of our products at those price levels and in any event very little spot business was being transacted in the industry.
Our confidence in the large planting of corn we expect this spring reinforced our position and made it easy to pass on some less attractive selling opportunities in both the spot and forward markets during the pricing trough which occurred in mid-December.
You can see evidence of our patience on our balance sheet.
We were holding $878 million in customer advances on September 30 and that balance fell to $257 million by year end.
I'll talk later about the favorable implications we expect the smaller book to have in the first half of 2012.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 it means that our prepay balance fell by more than $600 million yet we still had operating cash flow of more than $100 million in that period.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization were $871 million a fourth quarter record.
EBITDA excluding mark-to-market adjustments was a record for any quarter surpassing the previous mark set just 6 months earlier.
The fourth quarter also provided a nice illustration of the way in which lower North American natural gas prices have raised our floor margins making our Nitrogen business very profitable even in weak periods.
In mid-December urea prices at the U.S.
gulf bottomed at around $350 per short ton which we believe based on our observations roughly corresponds to the landed cash costs of the highest cost producers.
At this theoretical floor price our cash margin for production and sale of urea at New Orleans was above 60%.
If that's as bad as it gets in a period of collapsing demand then shares of North American nitrogen producers wouldn't seem to deserve much of a multiple discount due to industry volatility.
Although demand's lacking for many of our products in the fourth quarter there were some bright spots.
We participated in a very good fall ammonia application season which allowed us to sell 874 000 tons at an average price of $633 during the quarter.
As was the case with the other products our average price realization for ammonia compared very favorably to benchmarks because much of it had been sold forward in prior periods.
Total ammonia sales volume in the quarter was about 5% lower than last year but the agricultural volume was about the same.
Mild weather throughout the growing region allowed application to continue throughout December and even January in some areas.
Our team did a great job of delivering the product where it was needed throughout the season.
Although inventory levels are low we were able to meet our customers' needs across our system.
As soft was the mild weather was for fertilizer application it was just as great a boom for natural gas costs.
The average daily market price in Henry Hub was $3.31 per MMBtu which sounds high now but was 20% lower than the average in the prior quarter.
We priced a lot of the gas we consumed in the fourth quarter when we accepted forward orders prior to the beginning of the quarter which accounts for most of the difference between the average fourth quarter hub price and our average cost of $4.06 per MMBtu.
Our phosphate operations had a good fourth quarter too.
We exported a large area of our DAP and MAP volume during the first quarter.
The rapid pace of exports continued last month with export net backs at a premium compared to domestic sales.
Our average phosphate price realizations in Q4 were up sequentially and 18% higher year-over-year.
For the year the Phosphate segment had sales of $1.1 billion and an average price realization of $565 per ton.
Both were second highest in our history exceeded only by 2008 when we posted phosphate sales of $1.3 billion with an average price realization of $760 per DAP.
The Nitrogen segment rewrote the record book in our first full year after the Terra acquisition achieving sales of $5 billion and gross margin of $2.6 billion.
Average nitrogen price realizations were very similar to 2008 levels but with 51% gross margins compared to 30% in 2008 when our average gas cost was more than double what we experienced in 2011.
Whereas 2008 represented a short-term spike in commodity prices 2011 was a year of more gradual and sustainable increases supported by strong demand favorable supply dynamics and much higher input costs for swing producers in Eastern Europe and China.
Before I turn the call over to Dennis for a few more comments on our financial performance I'd like to salute our entire CF Industries team.
The market did provide a great opportunity in 2011 but it took a great team effort to achieve what I believe were stellar results.
It was a pleasure to watch our fully integrated team execute our strategy last year.
Dennis? Thanks Steve.
For the full year 2011 CF Industries had net earnings of $1.5 billion on sales of $6.1 billion.
Fully diluted earnings per share of $21.98 included noncash mark-to-market losses on natural gas derivatives the impairment of methanol assets in Woodward gains on the sale of noncore assets restructuring integration and other business combination costs and a small amount of Peru project development costs.
Together these items reduced EPS by $0.91 for the year.
EBITDA for 2011 was about $3 billion.
To put that in historical context the company's sales didn't reach $3 billion until 2008.
The items affecting earnings that I just mentioned excluding a portion of business combination costs that was recorded in interest expense reduced 2011 EBITDA by $83 million as shown on Slide 8.
Our fourth quarter net income of $439 million or $6.66 per share included mark-to-market adjustments of $49.7 million before taxes or $0.47 per share after tax.
This represents the adjustment required to bring natural gas derivatives that will mature in future quarters to their fair market value based on the gas strip as of December 31.
Our fully diluted EPS was a fourth quarter record as illustrated by the red box bars on Slide 5.
Before mark-to-market adjustments EPS was a record for any quarter in the company's history although net earnings were not.
Due to our share repurchases EPS had the added benefit of a significantly reduced share count compared to the second quarter of 2011 when we set the prior records.
Our Nitrogen business performed very well in the fourth quarter.
As shown on Slide 6 we had nitrogen sales of $1.5 billion up $461 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 on about the same volume.
Segment gross margin of $786 million was 54% of sales 12 percentage points higher than in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to higher prices and lower natural gas costs.
Our average ammonia and urea price realizations were up 40% year-over-year and average UAN realizations were up 72%.
The nitrogen segment had sales volume of 3.3 million tons in the fourth quarter.
An increase in UAN volume offset small declines in other products.
For ammonia the year-over-year reduction in fourth quarter industrial sales was about equal to the amount of net ammonia capacity that was consumed by the Woodward UAN expansion.
Agricultural ammonia sales were flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 but both quarters were very good application seasons due to strong demand and favorable weather conditions.
January urea sales volume was slightly lower than in the fourth quarter of 2010 but our average realized sales price of $465 per short ton was a great result.
That compared to $331 in the fourth quarter of last year.
We sold 1.6 million tons of UAN in the fourth quarter at an average price of $354 per ton.
That represented increases of 139 000 tons and $148 per ton compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The volume increase essentially corresponded to the amount of quarterly production capacity we added earlier in the year.
For the full year the Nitrogen segment had gross margin of $2.6 billion compared to $1 billion in the prior year.
2011 marked the first time the company has ever shipped 13 million tons of nitrogen products in a year.
The Phosphate business also performed well which you can see on Slide 7.
We achieved a 31% gross margin on sales of $255 million.
Sales volume of 439 000 tons was 38 000 tons lower than in the fourth quarter of 2010 but the combined average selling price for the phosphate was 18% higher.
Exports comprised 45% of our phosphate sales in the quarter which is a little higher than average.
We continue to have a conservative balance sheet with ample liquidity.
I know that investors have been very interested to learn more about the progress of our share repurchase program.
In 2011 we spent $1 billion to repurchase common shares which was the maximum amount allowed under the restricted payments basket in our revolving credit facility.
With this report of our results for the year the basket gets replenished allowing us to resume the repurchases at our discretion.
Many of you have asked us what our cash deployment intentions are beyond the share repurchase and investment initiatives that we announced in August last year.
To the extent we have available cash for additional forecasted cash flow we'll go through the same disciplined process that was used last summer to determine the best way to employ capital to maximize shareholder value.
We are pleased of course to be faced with this issue only 6 months after announcing actions totaling $2.5 billion to $3 billion.
In 2011 we had capital expenditures of just less than $250 million.
This was below our average pace of $300 million across the turnaround cycle.
For 2012 we are projecting CapEx of $400 million reflecting higher expenditures for plant turnarounds and some spending for the Donaldsonville ammonia debottlenecking project.
The other expansion projects we announced in August should be ready for decisions in the second half of the year but 2012 capital expenditures on these projects should be minimal.
Now with that let me turn it back to Steve to discuss the outlook.
Thanks Dennis.
I've given many favorable outlooks in a row on our quarterly calls and I'm happy to say that our track record over that period has been pretty good.
I know there's a lot of uncertainty out there now which has been evident in the timing of fertilizer purchases and in market volume expectations for P&amp;K.
Like others in the industry we're somewhat cautious about demand levels for phosphate this spring and we've acted on that sentiment by accelerating the timing of plant turnarounds for portions of our phosphate operations in Florida.
In contrast we expect strong demand for nitrogen in the spring.
The USDA's current season average forecast for the farm price of corn is the highest ever for this time of year.
And the projected stocks-to-use ratio at the end of this marketing year is the second lowest in 40 years.
We expect farmers to plant a large number of acres to corn quite possibly an all-time record and applying near optimal amounts of nitrogen fertilizer if weather conditions are right.
Investors don't need to watch daily changes in the spot price of corn to forecast what kind of a spring the nitrogen industry is likely to have.
We don't believe a moderate change in the current spot price of corn will change planting and fertilization intentions at all or have a meaningful impact on the grower's ability to pay for crop inputs.
We continue to forecast planting of 93.5 million acres of corn in 2012.
Whether the actual number is a little higher or a little lower the quantity of nitrogen fertilizer demanded should be near-record levels.
We already have a good jump on nitrogen fertilization this year with the favorable conditions for applying ammonia.
In fact it was hard to tell when the fall season ended and the spring season began this year.
Extremely mild weather made it possible for growers to apply ammonia in January in many parts of the Midwest with particularly strong pull in Kansas Missouri Iowa and Nebraska.
We're also seeing a rush to fertilize winter wheat in Texas and Oklahoma where precipitation came late.
As a result ammonia volume and business mix should be favorable in the first quarter.
Although ammonia may garner a slightly larger share of nitrogen product mix this fertilizer year investors should not be concerned that this will be problematic for us.
Spring of 2011 showed that with acceptable weather conditions we can have a very good demand for all nitrogen products in the year when more than 90 million acres of corn are planted.
Our order book on December 31 was smaller than it was a quarter ago or a year ago.
That's not a concern for us either.
We believe that demand will be there and our volumes will be strong if weather cooperates.
Because purchasing decisions are late this year we expect that some areas will experience a buying rush in the last 2 months and suppliers with product available for spot sales may be rewarded.
Our raw material cost continued to be a strong tailwind for us.
Phosphate production cost will benefit from the recent fall in Tampa ammonia prices which are rather loosely correlated with corn belt ammonia prices.
Domestic phosphate producers also settled sulfur negotiations recently and secured a 22% decrease in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
And of course the recent drop in natural gas prices will benefit our Nitrogen business over time.
Recent spot in the front month prices for gas at Henry Hub have fallen to a range of around $2.50 per MMBtu because of production growth and very warm weather.
As a result the U.S.
has built a storage surplus of between 600 and 700 Bcf in the lower 48 states compared to the last year and the 5-year average.
Rig counts have been falling but they have to fall further to stop the growth in production.
To reverse that growth we believe well shut-ins would be required.
As a result we don't expect much strength in gas prices this year.
Our press release indicated that as of December 31 we had fixed the price of nearly 2/3 of the gas we expect to use in production in 2012.
Had we known that this would be the winter that never arrived we wouldn't have been quite so aggressive.
But forecasting the weather isn't something we claim as an area of expertise in fact I'm not sure it's anyone's area of expertise.
What I know is that we saw an opportunity to fix our cash cost of urea production below $150 per ton which is a level at which we can earn very attractive margins.
To wrap up we expect 2012 to be a great year.
We expect a potential record planting of corn and we believe strongly that it will translate into very good demand for nitrogen.
If we experience periods of lower demand our margins will be supported by better floor price economics than in the past and very favorable feedstock cost.
Together these factors provide more evidence that nitrogen industry results will be characterized by higher highs and higher lows going forward.
With that let's open the call to your questions.
Chantale please explain the Q&amp;A procedure.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Elaine Yip of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So a quick question on your natural gas hedges.
Can you give us a sense as to perhaps what price you might have walked in on average and how the hedges are spread over the course of the year? I'll give you a bit of perspective on our process and I'd like to put what we did in a bit of a longer-term context.
First of all we noted that we fixed about 2/3 of our gas for 2012.
That means that we're roughly 1/3 exposed to the spot market at this point for 2012.
And of course we're fully exposed to future gas prices for 2013 and beyond.
What we did in the late fourth quarter really shouldn't be a surprise to the people who've been conversing with us over the last couple of years.
We indicated that we hadn't had an appetite to lock in fixed gas beyond our fertilizer sales commitments but that we might become interested if strip got below say $4 that we -- that had a free handle on it.
So when that happened in around mid-December we convened our natural gas committee.
They made a recommendation for a program which we executed over a several week curve following that series of meetings.
We're very comfortable with what we did.
We're never going to be perfect here.
I'd like to remind everybody that urea is a product that recently has sold in the range of $350 to $450 a ton and higher than that in the past and to have an opportunity to fix our cost at below $150 a ton was a great opportunity.
Part of our decision process of course is based upon our past experiences bad things happen in this business.
Out winters get cold and so we were protecting ourselves against the adverse weather events.
From a much longer-term perspective I'd like actually to remind you of how we manage our margin.
We've talked a lot over the years about our Forward Pricing Program how we make decisions about forward prices how long our forward commitments are and we've had lots of discussions about the fact that our focus isn't on the absolute price it's on the margin.
And we're looking to achieve the highest possible margin on a sustained bases.
Turning the coin over and looking at that gas side our view is exactly the same and that is that our focus is on the margin by having our cost structure pretty well fixed.
It gives us the opportunity to exploit what we hope and expect will be a firming of prices on the nitrogen side.
So over the last period of time I think we've demonstrated really good discipline in what we do.
This is the kind of process that led us to post $3 billion of EBITDA in 2011 on $6 billion of sales.
So I feel really good about what we did and where we stand going forward.
Research Division</strong> But I mean I guess in thinking about what cost you might have locked in 2012 that the long-term strategy certainly makes a lot of sense but how should we think about the hedges in place? Is it more weighted towards first half second half? What is maybe the relative price or what time? At what point in 4Q did you decide to put the hedges on? Well we looked at this in around midmonth and we're looking at the strip at that point.
And in terms of the spread throughout the year there's not much variation throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then can you comment on your nitrogen production capability for 2012? You obviously ran at exceptionally high rates in 2011.
Can that really be sustained this year? What type of turnarounds might you have scheduled throughout the year? Tony Will will comment on that Elaine.
Elaine by any measure 2011 was a terrific year for us in the production side as well as for the whole company.
We had fewer turnarounds than in '11 and usual and we also had less unscheduled downtime than a historically normalized year as well.
And that resulted in production records across the company.
So as we look forward into 2012 we have more turnaround scheduled than in '11 and an assumption that the unscheduled downtime will also return to something that may be more reflective of a normal pattern.
And the result of that is that we're expecting for our production volume this year to be a bit lower than where we were in 2011.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan Jester sitting in for P.J.
I was just wondering if we could talk a little bit more about your order book.
When I see your balance sheet and customer advance is down 40% year-over-year is that sort of a good way to think about sort of how the order book stacks up compared to a typical year? And are there any specific products which might be a little bit weaker than others? Bert? I think how we would look at it is every year is different every season is different.
And our order book as Steve mentioned trended lower into the first quarter.
So with 93 million acres or 94 million whatever the estimate is which would be a 2 million to 3 million-acre increase over what was planted in the spring of 2011 we're very positive what will take place and the need for farmers to purchase nitrogen.
So while the book might have been a little bit lower than normal coming into the first quarter we're anticipating robust activity from this point forward and we've already seen some activity during the first 2 weeks of February.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one other follow-up.
Can you update us a little bit on your plans for Peru? I saw a recent report that the government may have set a deadline for your project there so I just wanted to get an update.
Well Dan I really have no update.
We have been sort of sitting on the sidelines waiting to see whether some roadblocks got broken.
They haven't been broken thus far.
That particular report was not factually correct.
But the substance of my response is that we haven't made any progress there.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could clarify the terms of the credit agreement a little bit in 2 ways.
One what do you now have available in terms of the amount of share repurchases for 2012 is it $500 million is it $1 billion? [indiscernible] I know what's left in the program.
And two why not renegotiate that agreement or get a new one to give yourself complete flexibility to take advantage of things like your $130 share price at some point in December or the 10% down day on the Ukrainian gas concerns in November? And then thirdly with the gas costs fixed now does that give you more confidence or more comfort in maybe executing incremental or larger share repurchases than what's left in the authorization? Vincent this is Dennis.
I'll respond to your question.
I want to just sort of put my response on the context with sort of what's happened over the past several months.
In August we announced with respect to shareholders sort of 2 initiatives.
One was to increase our dividend to $0.40 per share per quarter which we've done and that's happened that's delivered.
And in addition to that we announced that we had authorization from our board to repurchase shares up to $1.5 billion and that authorization runs through the end of 2013.
And we've completed 2/3 of that before 2011 had even ended.
And we were able to buy those shares back at $153 a share on average $153.50 I think which is well below today's price and certainly very well below our time all-time high share price as you know.
As we think about the future what I can say about that is what I've said in the speech itself and going forward and that is we're going to take the same disciplined approach to looking at additional share repurchases in the future as we have in the past.
Since those seem to make the most sense in terms of delivering value to the shareholders then we'll certainly do that.
As we said in the speech with this report our basket has been replenished and we're capable of moving forward and resuming share prices when we choose to do so consistent with the authorization that we have.
With respect to the credit agreement what I'd say about that going forward is we have not amended that in the fourth quarter last year because we really don't want to tinker with that at the margins.
To the degree that we want to do something different there and I'm not saying that we will but to the degree we want to do something different there we would do something much more comprehensive than simply amending this particular part of the agreement or that particular part of the agreement.
But I really don't have anything on that to say today.
Vincent this is Steve.
I'll just add a couple thoughts.
One is that the basket that we have available now is bigger than what we would need to complete the program that's in place.
And with respect to the last part of your question which I believe related to does our large amount of fixed-price gas give us a greater ability to do share repurchases.
My answer to that is that our gas hedging activity is really a tactical move designed to change our risk profile in managing our margins going forward.
And it doesn't really impact our longer-term view on the cash generation capability of the company or what we might or might not do with that cash.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask a follow-up.
Could you talk a little bit specifically about the UAN market? Prices have come down sort of precipitously in the last few weeks and there's been some chatter in the trade about one of your competitors being more aggressive with selling product in the fourth quarter than it sounds like you were and just how you're thinking about your position there as we go into the spring.
Bert? We're pleased with our position.
The UAN market has been volatile.
As you can see from our pricing coming off the fourth quarter at $3.54 we captured exceptional pricing.
And you're correct.
At the end of the fourth quarter pricing did come off.
A reflection of several issues you see from the import statistics a large volume on a 5-year average and even on a year-on-year average were much higher than anticipated.
And I think some areas probably on the East Coast where the import tanks were full that shifted some of the import material into other markets.
That coupled with delays in purchasing whether that be prepaid that comes in in December generally or retailer wholesaler delays in purchasing during that period probably pushed a few producers to become more aggressive.
But again last year when you look at what happened on ammonia and UAN and for the spring of 2011 we had an exceptional fall an exceptional spring on ammonia and an exceptional summer or spring to summer application of UAN.
We're anticipating similar movement this year and that's the benefit of where we are at CF with our interior tanks in production and our logistical capabilities.
We believe will be able to capture the market when it does come and it has started to come.
The urea price as you know have moved in NOLA recently and that should on end basis push UAN to a similar level.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve in your release you had indicated that ammonia volumes were pretty well depleted in January for yourselves as well as I think some of your competitors.
Can you talk about implications for volumes in the first quarter? Is it your sense that it's getting pulled forward from the second quarter into the first as a result of the favorable weather? Kevin just -- I'll make a general comment and Bert will follow if he has anything to add.
We are very pleased to have the ammonia run that we had this fall.
It helped us display the strength of our system which is a fully integrated system from plant to basically to the truck heading off to the retailer or to the farm.
And because of the length of the season we were able to augment the volumes that were in our tanks before the season started and continue to run.
And that's a credit to our supply chain people and the coordination that exists from the plant to the supply chain to the sales organization.
Having said all of that we have product to sell and we'll be ready to go for the spring.
Bert? I think the only thing to add is how -- what doesn't -- is not seen is our ability to transition between products in production whether that be if ammonia is strong we have the ability to go full ammonia full UAN or in Donaldsonville Courtright and Medicine Hat we have the ability obviously to produce urea.
And so those plants that are dual or triple capability were moving between products as the market demands.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a couple of follow-ups if I may on natural gas.
Steve I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on the outlook for gas costs over in the Ukraine at the high end of the cost curve in 2012.
And then second just as a clarification am I correct in understanding that you did not put in any additional hedges in the first quarter to date such that you're still at a 65% hedge ratio as of today? The answer to your last question is we haven't had significant activity since the end of the year.
With respect to what's going on in Ukraine I guess my understanding is that there's no news out of the Ukraine since the rumors that came out a couple of months ago and caused a little bit of scare in the marketplace that there was a gas deal on the horizon that was going to be put in place.
It hasn't been announced.
And so as far as we know those producers today are hanging there in the range of $7.50 MMBtu for the gas or higher -- and higher in some cases.
Your next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So just quickly so just to clarify so now we're having less forward sales does that mean your realized prices will be much closer to spot going forward in 2012? Well for that portion of our business that is not already booked we have the opportunity to capture prices at the spot level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on natural gas again at $250 right now why not hedge more in terms of for post 2012 let's say for 2013 and so forth? I mean what's keeping you from being more aggressive post 2012? A flippant answer would be if we do that we leave ourselves susceptible to being questioned about why we're not in the spot market when it's $1.50.
But that is just a flippant answer.
We look at our gas positions on a regular basis.
I'd never say never.
But there's a lot of gas out there and there aren't signs of a deep freeze coming before the winter is over.
So perhaps there is as much opportunity -- there's additional opportunity in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly given everything you've seen in the market right now and the expectation for the spring like how confident are you that prices will firm up as we get closer to the spring planting season? I don't want to make a call -- this Bert -- on where prices will be but you have seen from the lows of December of $350 for urea today we're at $430 for March and April and expect further strength.
UAN will follow behind.
Midwest ammonia has stayed strong you can see that in Green Markets.
And again going back to demand and the need for nitrogen especially on the corn on corn acres we believe that the farmer's incentive to apply the maximum or the ideal amount of nitrogen fertilizers will be met and we will have the inventory in place and we do expect spot outages.
As these delays have taken place on the purchasing side that limits the logistical capabilities of the overall market and that's where again we believe our strengths lie because of our debt strength and assets in place.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Kurt Schoen in for Mark.
With more DAP and MAP going to the export market over the past year do you expect this trend to continue going forward? And secondly where do you see the greatest phosphate growth opportunities internationally for CF? Well in terms of our mix of import and export we don't have a target in mind.
We look for the best net backs we can get.
I think our location in Florida coupled with our relative size gives us an opportunity to take advantage of pockets of demand where they develop.
And in some cases these are smaller pieces of demand than some other people are interested in taking.
We're happy to take that business if it provides a good net back.
But we don't have objectives here.
We watch the market daily.
Our partners at KEYTRADE help us do that.
And we look at our margins not at where it goes.
With respect to future market development Bert you want to comment on that? I think it goes back to your comment on KEYTRADE and the partnership that we have there that's very strong and the relationships that are in place around the world.
We're on the phone or visiting the major markets on a regular basis that being South America specifically Brazil.
We did move some tons into India you saw that in the fourth quarter and then other opportunities as they come up whatever continent that -- where that may be.
We do have as mentioned earlier the new product coming online in 2012 the sulfur MAP.
We're excited about that and have a high level of demand or anticipation for that product when it is available.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And with India's reduction of their subsidy or their planned reduction how do you view that affecting that market for DAP and MAP? Well it's interesting because the statistics are out and obviously we're watching India because it's such a big weight on the phosphate the world phosphate market.
And with the decrease -- they're projecting a 20% decrease in DAP but you have a consummate corresponding increase in the N-P-K.
So the nutrients and I don't have that on the exact level were pulled but we are watching the subsidy level and if that can have an impact on demand but the need there is stark.
The need for yields and yields will only be achieved through N-P-K.
And each of us in our respective areas -- obviously we're focused a little more on nitrogen but phosphate is important and our colleagues that do phosphate and potash we believe that that -- that India will have to whether it's through subsidies or market-based mechanisms have an increasing demand and requirement for nutrients.
Your next question comes from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on Vincent's question on your buyback capability.
So is it fair to say that without changing the revolving credit line that you guys would be capped again at $1 billion of repurchases this year? What I'd say is that if you look at the -- we've replenished the basket.
We have authorization to do $500 million Lindsay for the balance of the authorization period ended 2013.
We're in a position where we if we wanted to or if it makes sense to do so we're in a position to complete the authorization if we have to in 2012.
Research Division</strong> So I guess there's 2 pieces.
It's whether or not you would put out another authorization to buy back more stock and whether your revolving -- whether the credit agreement would limit -- it doesn't necessarily matter what you authorize if your credit agreement prevents you from actually pulling the trigger on those repurchases.
So how do we think about -- the authorization part is straightforward how do we think about how your credit agreement might cap you from further share repurchases this year unless it's reauthorized -- or unless it's amended? Lindsay let me -- I'm going to reiterate Dennis' earlier comment and then add to it.
As we go forward assuming that we continue to generate cash the way we have been generating cash and the way we expect to generate cash we're going to be faced with this wonderful question again about what to do with the cash.
And we'll go through the same kind of process that we went through before in terms of coming to conclusions about deployment of cash.
And at those points at that point or those points in time when we want to take actions we will do whatever's necessary in our own infrastructure to enable ourselves to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe moving on to market dynamics.
So we have seen some nice pick up in urea and yet some continued stagnation at the price levels for UAN.
Can you help us understand what -- whether there is demand substitution and where it might be between urea and solution and then also how much swing production capability that you guys have not between UAN and ammonia but whether there's any between UAN and urea and how much that exists in the broader industry? Regarding product substitution that is a constant question and the farmer preference for what product he will apply on what crop.
And there is obviously the 4Rs that we market and adhere to which are pushed by the Fertilizer Institute and -- but in certain areas and specific on the top dress of urea which is where we saw movement during January and February it was both.
But it was definitely favored towards UAN.
UAN is a great product.
You can apply it with your chemicals.
You have different variable rates.
And so we're seeing growth in that and you can see it in the statistics with the growth in consumption of UAN along with the acreage growth.
But that is more tied to corn and corn being a heavy user of nitrogen.
We talk a lot about this in the industry and we still see consistent ammonia consumption in a range and urea and UAN also.
So I don't -- all we -- I don't see much again that you're in a range of value of N I don't see a lot of substitution taking place.
And what we'll see what we anticipate seeing is a recovery of UAN as to rather than trading at a discount to urea it will trade at parity or even an increase.
Regarding the other issue of -- Tony you want to take the production? Yes.
Lindsay on the production side primarily at Donaldsonville we've got flexibility to move back and forth between more granulation of urea and cutting back on UAN.
And that is an analysis that we look at in terms of margin per unit of nitrogen on an ongoing and continuous basis and can dial up and dial back on the fly as we go.
And we've been running max urea granulation for quite a while now and we'll continue to do so.
Research Division</strong> As you think about the -- you talk about 93 million 94 million acres of corn in some places you're even looking for 95 million how do you think about the end and with the end demand demands for UAN solutions should be in the first half of the year relative to the supply that we're already providing in the U.S.
plus the new imports from Trinidad that we're seeing having an impact on the market.
I guess I'm just wondering it seems like demand's going to be good but if supply is kind of crowding out the high-cost producers why do we have hope that UAN prices start to improve from depressed levels? So when you look at the world market on a capacity basis strict capacity basis UAN is adequately supplied.
However you do have to move that product on a timely basis at the moment of consumption.
And UAN is consumed in a narrow book-ended 3-month range of time.
And so it's not that those capacities nor those quantities are available at all periods.
And so yes there has been a higher level of imports.
And yes the market has traded at a discount.
But at let's say 13 million 14 million tons of demand for UAN over again a 3- to 4-month period we think we're in a very nice position to capture the demand as well as the price appreciation and/or the price that's available in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Picken of Cleveland.
I just wanted to delve into that Phosphate business a little bit more.
You indicated you might move up some of your downtime and I just wanted to get a sense for how much production you're planning on cutting and if your expectation is that demand in the U.S.
for phosphate is going to be flat or down slightly this year.
Tony you want to talk about our physical activities? Yes.
You bet.
Michael so we looked at the current market conditions and our upcoming maintenance requirements.
And based on where margins are currently versus expectations about what may develop in the future we decided to move some of our turnaround activities into Q1 that were originally planned for later in the year.
And so this has the effect basically of moving production out of Q1 that we'll realize then in the back half of the year.
And the net result of that was that our reduction in Q1 production is roughly in line with what other North American producers have announced.
On a percentage basis you mean? Yes.
Okay.
Great.
And then in terms of kind of where you see the demand for phosphate I mean in the U.S.
and globally in 2012 I mean do you see global phosphate demand being sort of flat with last year or do you think it's going to be up slightly or what are sort of your expectations in the U.S.
and globally for phosphate demand? I think we're in a -- this is Bert.
We're in an interesting time.
Normally the November to January period is slow.
And for Tony's point we anticipated that in the reflection of the market did what we did.
But we see a positive market going forward.
Some of the other destination markets in the international side were long or have been longer with inventories that being Brazil and then the India discussion that when they go to negotiation with the major suppliers we'll be watching that.
But the U.S.
had a good fall application window.
And I think there is adequate supply in the United States.
But we're also seeing -- consummate with the other products we're seeing a positive market for phosphates going forward and anticipate a rebound in the international activity probably later in the first but into the second quarter.
Okay.
Great.
And then last question sort of just in terms of your expectations for Chinese exports this year for both urea and for phosphate.
I think in general we see continuation of essentially the same program as last year.
I think our expectation is maybe a little less urea exported than last year with respect to phosphate.
Bert? I would say the same.
I think the 4-month window and the tax structure that's in place is that the obviously an evolving and changing dynamic to the market but it's been very positive to the North American phosphate producers who participate in the international markets.
Your next question goes to the line of Charles Neivert of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick question.
Maybe you can help me reconcile this.
You said we had a pretty decent fall on application nitrogen the major nutrients going down.
We've had an extended winter so to say or a lack of a winter which has allowed more product to go down.
And now but you're still telling me that come the spring we're going to run into a problem because -- or potentially a problem because we're trying to squeeze a lot on late.
But we've laid down a lot already.
Does that really negate that possibility or at least reduce it substantially? I mean I know there's still substantial product to go down but we've already put down probably more than we usually do at this point in time.
So do you think that squeeze that typically comes or might come in the spring can happen again? You have to define what we're putting down.
The spring season for wheat normally takes place in late January and into February.
And so that might have been pulled forward a couple weeks but that's normal activity in Oklahoma and let's say Kansas Oklahoma Texas region.
What we mentioned earlier regarding ammonia and to the upper Midwest was abnormal in January.
But when you consider that there are 4.6 million to 5 million tons of direct application of ammonia applied per year and a narrow window of January how much went down in those markets? More than normal but still we need a lot of nitrogen for the corn and other products.
And I think as a person focused on agriculture we're pleased with that because that allows producer farmers to anticipate and time their planting which as you know in the last couple years has been extended due to weather delays.
So this is probably ideal for the United States.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the question is looking forward how much still has to go down? Is that pretty much within the realm of normalcy? Obviously weather is going to -- is always the issue when you go to put it down.
But we're not looking for any excessively large amount that has to get placed down where we might run into a weather issue that might close that down a little bit.
So we're in a normal range for delivery and if the weather is even reasonably cooperative we should be able to get that down is that a reasonable assessment? 3 million more acres conservatively and you're adding acres in I would consider marginal areas that are going to need nitrogen.
And so you have to add in the caveats and the additional points that still a lot of product needs to go down.
So I'm not -- I don't have an exact number for you.
And when we report our Q1 you'll see the ammonia movement.
But it's still very positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> No that's okay.
We're going to have a big year it's just a matter of is there going to be enough of a squeeze to create the pop in pricing that might be in the market expectation currently.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Terry Huch for closing remarks.
Please proceed sir.
We'd like to thank everyone who participated in the call today and if you need more information about our results I would invite you to contact me.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CF Industries First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
My name is Stacy and I'll be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us for this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications and with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales &amp; Market Development; and Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing &amp; Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its first quarter 2012 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company LP.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by Federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor statement included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
I want to welcome Dan to our team.
His predecessor Terry Hutch set the bar pretty high.
I'm confident that Dan is up to the challenge of raising it higher.
Yesterday afternoon CF Industries reported record first quarter net earnings of $368 million or $5.54 per diluted share compared to earnings of $282 million or $3.91 per share in last year's first quarter.
We generated these outstanding results thanks to the confluence of a number of factors.
The large number of corn acres already planted and yet to be planted have been driving -- has been a driving force behind strong North American nitrogen plant nutrient demand.
Exceptionally mild weather created ideal conditions for farmers who began pre-plant applications earlier than normal.
The low level of urea in inventory in North America coupled with the demand led to increases in nitrogen prices during the quarter.
The continued environment of low-priced North American natural gas provided benefits to our cost structure.
These macro factors combined with excellent execution by our team were responsible for our outstanding results.
Late in 2011 we didn't believe that then current prices reflected the intrinsic value of our nitrogen products.
This belief was based upon our expectation that farmers will plant a large number of acres of corn in 2012 which at the time we expected to be 93.5 million acres.
It's clear to us with this level of corn planting there will be strong perhaps even record high demand for nitrogen fertilizer.
This belief ultimately was supported by the March USDA prospective plantings report which reported farmers intention to plant nearly 96 million acres of corn a number higher than we or most industry observers had anticipated.
In spite of this anticipated high level of demand North American industry inventory of nitrogen products especially urea was relatively low even lower than average imports.
Urea imports for the fertilizer year through March were estimated to have been down nearly 0.5 million tons or 9% from the prior year.
Spring application began much earlier than normal this season.
In fact it started before spring arrived on the calendar due to exceptionally mild weather across the Corn Belt.
Warm temperatures during March helped create favorable field conditions for farmers to get an early start and pre-plant ammonia applications.
Additionally much needed rain fell in the Southern Plains winter wheat growing areas providing improved conditions for farmers to apply urea which many of them had skipped last fall due to dry soil conditions.
The environment then was one of strong demand in low industry-wide inventories of ammonia and urea.
When customers finally stepped up to buy rapid price increases followed as the quarter progressed.
Given our production and distribution profile we were able to take advantage of these favorable market conditions.
We used our broad network of production points and distribution and storage assets to make products available when and where they were needed.
And in doing so we met our customers’ needs and benefited our bottom line.
As a result we realized record first quarter sales volumes for ammonia and urea and we achieved an all-time production record for granular urea.
We saw year-over-year increases in average prices across all of our nitrogen products although the price realizations were down on a sequential basis.
This is not surprising when you remember the very favorable order book we had built before we entered the fourth quarter of 2011.
Robust demand that drove our revenue performance was complemented by favorable natural gas cost.
As one of the major industrial consumers of natural gas we continue to be beneficiaries of the plentiful and growing supplies of North American shale gas.
Natural gas usage in North America was quite low this winter as we experienced the fewest heating degree days in the past 60 years.
Lower usage combined with the continued supply growth resulted in record inventories and 10-year low natural gas prices.
While we did fix 2/3 of our 2012 gas cost back in December prior to knowing how winter weather would develop we generated exceptional margins and did realize incremental benefits as gas prices continued to decline.
Our phosphate segment performed reasonably well in the quarter.
We saw modest growth in revenues as volume increases more than offset lower prices.
Our domestic sales volume was down 18%.
Our exports more than tripled compared to last year.
Phosphate price realizations decreased from a year ago as dealers appeared to be comfortable with their supply positions and took a "wait and see at it" approach to the market.
We experienced higher sulfur and ammonia costs than a year ago.
We completed turnaround work during the quarter at our Plant City Florida Phosphate Complex that will benefit us later in the year.
These performance factors helped us generate EBITDA of $702 million another first quarter record up from $585 million a year ago.
Our balance sheet is exceptionally strong with $1.7 billion of cash at quarter end and only $1.6 billion of long-term debt.
We're pleased that Moody's recognized our track record of prudent financial management earlier this week by upgrading us to be Baa3 with a positive outlook.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Dennis for a few more comments on our financial performance.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
During the first quarter of 2012 the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $368 million or $5.54 per diluted share.
This compares to $282 million or $3.91 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
Our first quarter 2012 earnings per share include a non-cash mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives of $0.52.
Our nitrogen business had an outstanding first quarter which you can see on Slide 5.
We delivered 3.2 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin of 52%.
Increased nitrogen gross margin reflects higher sales volumes compared to a year ago as well as higher average selling prices across every product.
During the first quarter of 2012 we sold 672 000 tons of ammonia at an average realized price of $598 per ton.
Ammonia sales volume for the first quarter of 2012 was 64% higher than a year ago due primarily to the early start of the spring application season.
Our average realized sales price for ammonia was 21% higher than in the first quarter of last year.
Both agricultural and industrial market prices were higher and agricultural ammonia was a much higher portion of our sales mix in the first quarter of 2012 than in 2011.
First quarter sales of granular urea increased by 25% year-over-year to 758 000 tons.
Our average realized price of $461 per ton was 24% higher than in the first quarter of 2011.
During the first quarter we sold nearly 1.4 million tons of UAN compared to approximately 1.5 million tons in the first quarter of 2011.
Average UAN price realizations were $302 per ton a 9% increase from the first quarter of 2011.
Our sales volume was down due to our decision to focus on higher margin urea sales through most of the quarter.
However the average UAN realized price did increase due to sales from an attractive order book entering the quarter and to our capturing the higher market prices at the end of the quarter.
Ammonium nitrate sales of 123 000 tons in the quarter were about 5% lower than in the first quarter of 2011 and prices were 3% higher.
The average daily market price for natural gas at Henry Hub of $2.46 per MMBtu was $1.70 lower than in the same period last year.
Our realized natural gas costs average $3.48 per MMBtu.
We continue to have hedge gas positions for approximately 2/3 of our natural gas usage for the balance of 2012.
As shown on Slide 6 our phosphate segment achieved total revenues during the first quarter of $256 million up about 3% from the first quarter of 2011.
Total sales volume for DAP and MAP was 516 000 tons 17% higher than in the first quarter of 2011 with domestic volume down 18% from 394 000 to 325 000 tons and export volume up 315% from 46 000 to 191 000 tons.
37% of our phosphate sales was exported in the first quarter of 2012 because of relatively strong buying interest and more attractive net prices outside North America.
Average phosphate price realizations during the first quarter were about 12% lower than in 2011 due to relatively high industry inventory compared to demand.
The phosphate segment generated a 19% gross margin down from the 33% reported a year ago due to the lower average selling prices and higher raw materials costs.
We recently entered into a new 5-year $500 million revolving credit facility.
Improvements in both the credit market and the company's financial condition have enabled us to negotiate terms for a new facility that are much more favorable than those of the prior facility.
We believe the terms of the credit facility indicate the strength of the company's credit book profile as reflected in the Moody's upgrade earlier this week.
The new credit facility does not have the restrictive covenants on uses of cash that the prior facility had and provides the company greater flexibility to deploy capital in pursuit of our strategic objectives.
Finally although we elected not to repurchase shares during the quarter the program remains in place.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Dennis.
Nitrogen market conditions are exceptional as we approach the midpoint of the second quarter.
Near-term demand for all products is robust with a large number of corn acres being planted favorable weather and low industry-wide nitrogen product availability.
Corn planting is showing excellent progress with 53% of U.S.
corn planted as of April 29 compared to a historic average of 33% for this time of year.
The ammonia pre-plant season is winding down after an early start with continuous very strong demand.
This robust demand has been visible in published spot market prices and we look forward to a very good side-dress season.
The re-application continues at a brisk pace and we have seen strong UAN demand in recent weeks.
The last month has been characterized by some nitrogen supply interruptions in North America.
While these industry events are quite normal the impact has been more visible in the market this year due to the tight conditions during 2012.
We at CF Industries have met our commitments to customers and believe we're on course for an excellent second quarter.
We expect the global nitrogen fertilizer market to remain in a relatively tight position at least through the first half of the calendar year.
Although a significant amount of new capacity is being built globally several of those projects have been delayed and we do not expect to see some of them come online until the second half of the year or even later.
Market dynamics affecting existing producers in high cost regions are keeping the floor price for urea at a high level.
The Chinese urea export window is expected to open again in July.
However given the Chinese producers high coal costs and their own domestic fertilizer needs we expect that China will export less than 3 million tons of urea in 2012 down from an estimated 3.6 million tons in 2011 and 7 million tons in 2010.
In addition natural gas cost appear to be rising for some Eastern European producers as Brent crude prices have risen discounts from Russia have not materialized and alternate supplies of lower cost gas have largely been exhausted.
Meanwhile India has significant urea needs and their purchases along with demand from Latin America and Southeast Asia did soak up much of the available global urea supply.
We anticipate that the phosphate market will continue to improve as the year advances.
Market is being supported by expectations for strong demand in Latin America as well as the planted area increases due to high soybean prices.
India and Southeast Asia also are expected to have strong demand this summer.
In the supply side high production cost may limit Chinese exports of phosphate.
We will continue to use our production and distribution flexibility to pursue the highest margin sales opportunities whether domestically or through exports.
Additionally we will seek opportunities to provide upgraded higher-value products.
One of these current opportunities is our introduction of software-enhanced MAP or MAP-S.
Earlier this week we started test runs of this new product.
Those tests have started out well and we anticipate moving to full-scale production before the end of the second quarter.
We're very excited about this product and our customers already have voiced their interest.
This is a higher-value product and should provide a modest boost to the earnings potential of our phosphate business.
Longer term CF Industries will continue to benefit from several macro market factors to provide -- which provide opportunities for revenue growth and cash flow generation.
First global population growth rising income levels leading to a shift towards higher protein diets and continued use of grains as a fuel source are all contributing to long-term growths in crop plantings and plant nutrient needs.
Secondly the abundance of natural gas in North America has created attractive cost economics that give us the competitive advantage in the nitrogen market.
And finally at CF Industries we have a leadership team and a workforce that have proven their ability to deliver on our shareholders expectations by fulfilling our customer's needs.
These factors provide an exceptional opportunity for CF Industries to continue to create long-term growth in shareholder value consistent with the view I expressed last quarter that we believe our nitrogen results will be characterized by higher highs and higher lows going forward.
As we have done in recent years we will apply discipline in developing our cash deployment alternatives.
We hope that our shareholders are as pleased as we are with our earnings and cash flow performance and with our prospects.
With that let's open the call to your questions.
Stacy could you please explain the Q&amp;A procedures.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess one question is obviously what do you think happens in the second half of the year on the price side? I think everybody would agree that we saw nitrogen prices in the first half higher than we would have thought 3 6 9 months ago.
So I guess my question is do you think that application rates in the U.S.
are higher on a per acre basis or combined with the amount of acres that we're planting that maybe you're taking enough supply out of the second half that even if there was a little more incremental capacity the back half won't be as bad as what maybe what people thought 6 or 9 months ago? And any sort of thoughts on that would be helpful and then I have a follow-up.
Well Vince I'll make just one comment to your last point.
I don't think anything about our outlook is bad.
Right? I'll just turn the overall question to Bert Frost.
Well looking at the latter half of the first 6-month period you have a lot of activity still to take place with various applications on corn and then the continued application of ammonia in the Northern tier as well as side-dress.
And so we're very positive what can and will take place and believe that N applications will be up for the year on $96 million which is a recent record on acres as well as the other crops.
And we're getting positive rainfall in Texas for -- we're anticipating good demand for the cotton crop as well as the pivot application in the Western aquifer area.
And so that coupled with -- we have to take also into account world demand to sustain -- we are in a world market -- to sustain world pricing event and what's taking place as you're following India and South America and the limits of exports coming out of China all really roll up into a very positive period moving forward.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is just could you talk a little bit -- Steve you didn't buy stock back in the quarter.
The press release talks about being opportunistic.
So maybe you could just help us understand what types of things would be considered opportunistic? Sure.
With respect to the whole question of cash deployment I'd like to put a little bit of context around it.
We've now been a public company for going on 7 years.
I think our record of investment and other cash deployment has been quite positive.
And frankly I'm very proud of it.
Going back to 2008 we had an opportunity in front of us to repurchase our shares following the -- at that time of peak in the summer of 2008.
We bought stock back in the fall at a very attractive price $500 million worth of our own stock.
Last summer in August which is only 8 months ago our board authorized a comprehensive approach to cash deployment.
That included a plan to invest up to $1 billion to $1.5 billion inside the fence in our nitrogen business and to buy up to $1.5 billion of our own stock back.
We bought $1 billion worth of that stock back before year end.
I think the average price of those shares was around $153 and change.
Recently our stock has been trading in the range of $180 to $200 a share.
I think that was a very prudent amount of purchases at a pretty good price.
The authorization that was put in place in August 2011 runs through December of 2013.
So I'm proud of what we've done both strategically and tactically in this regard.
We continue to develop strategy in the future consistent with our good stewardship to date and the tactics will become visible as we make announcements about actions that have occurred when they occur.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> This is Sandy Klugman sitting in for Don.
Actually 2-part question related to the second quarter.
As you pointed out you wisely walked away from some lower price nitrogen business at the end of the year.
Your customer advances are up sequentially but they're still down $350 million year-over-year.
So question is to what extent should investors expect the strong second quarter nitrogen pricing environment to eventually be reflected in your second quarter results? And then you've also talked about how the early start to the application season helped the first quarter volumes.
Do you feel that any demand has been pulled forward from the second quarter? I mean if possible could you quantify the financial impact on second quarter results? I'll make a comment on your second question and I'll ask Bert to deal with the pricing question.
With respect to volumes obviously we had a terrific first quarter in terms of volume and we were certainly able to sell everything that we can produce.
The first quarter was particularly strong in ammonia and it would be unrealistic for us to think that for example we could repeat the ammonia volume we had a year ago because a lot of the pre-plant ammonia is essentially down.
Now it's not being applied in the -- in as much in the second quarter as it was a year ago.
Now on the other hand urea -- I'm sorry UAN is a second quarter product.
We have lots of UAN to move lots of capacity to sell.
We're very pleased with our physical position with respect to the UAN market.
Bert? Yes relative to pricing what you saw in the first quarter was a fairly weak period coming out of the fourth quarter through January and February and then pricing appreciated beginning in March maybe late February and has continued to do so through April.
And we recognize and obviously we have to participate in these environments on a day-to-day basis but believed our story and believed the potential of the high acreage number and then we priced accordingly for the first quarter.
For the second quarter and looking forward we always say about order book is we're pleased with where we are and we have products to sell throughout the quarter.
The pricing will continue I think to be a positive throughout this second quarter period because you've had less exports coming into United States for ammonia and urea a little higher on UAN today and high acreage and high application rates.
So you can see what's post into some of the publications probably will trend through a quarter and then begin to weaken for the fill period.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
So it sounds like you're happy with your inventory position in UAN.
I just want to make sure I'm clear.
The recent outages we've been reading about you don't expect them to have a real impact on second quarter shipments? We were -- as you saw in our press release our ammonia units ran at the rated capacity in the first quarter.
I think absent some kind of problem that's not anticipated at this point we expect to be very pleased with our production in the first half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on Vincent's question about cash deployment not at all questioning your track record of good stewardship of capital.
You did bring up the example though a couple when you did have the initial buyback authorization that in 2008 you executed it rather quickly the full extent of it.
And I understand that last year you were unable to execute the full $1.5 billion because of your credit agreement but it doesn't seem as if there were any hurdles to buying back stock in the first quarter.
Maybe you could just shed a little bit more light on the rationale for waiting to complete the execution of this authorization and in addition waiting to deploy capital for the capital investment program that you also announced last year? It sounds like a bunch of that cash deployment is on hold and it would helpful to have a little more color as to why.
With respect to the second part of your question we're on the exact timetable in looking at investment opportunities as we contemplated last August.
We have a period here of doing front-end engineering and design work.
We have to overlay market studies on that.
That will all come together later in the year.
And assuming that we have positive decisions we would expect to be making announcements around the end of the year.
That's what we contemplated.
I think we actually talked about that in our fourth quarter conference call.
And so there has been no change either in our appetite for these projects or on the timetable associated with them.
With respect to repurchasing shares when we announced our buyback in August we announced it as a $1.5 billion program.
We said it had a longevity through the end of 2013.
We didn't make any commitments with respect to the pace at which we'd buy back stock.
And when we purchase shares we will let you know at the end of that -- each quarter where we stand.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Bert maybe just a question for you on UAN specifically.
We haven't seen some capacity expansion in Trinidad.
And if you were to paint a scenario where corn prices decline and we get less than this level of record acreage and ultimately UAN demand is something that could be fulfilled self-sufficiently without reliance on exports.
How would you think about what would set the price floor for UAN and the extent to which urea might be enough of a support factor to keep UAN prices propped up at high levels? Specifically looking at UAN world capacity today is far above world demand.
And so you do have differentials trading and it does play off the other products where UAN is relative to urea and ammonia and nitrate also but where the world producers set their production targets and then where they move the product to various markets.
And so we do monitor what's going on in I guess the drivers in these other countries relative to gas demand production and where they're marketing their products and then what that impact would be on the United States relative to imports and where they import into then therefore how we price our products.
UAN what we are -- where we are today is in the logistics market and so that's where the benefits to CF having in-country production facilities and distribution assets allow us to participate in the spot market and therefore capture spot pricing.
And so corn today you can call it 96 million you can call 92 million it's still very positive for UAN.
So I'm not really anticipating the acreage impact to negatively impact the first 6 months on UAN.
Exports we do -- as you can see in the first quarter we exported UAN to a few countries.
And we continue to use that vehicle as a way to moderate not only our inventories and production rates but to participate in other markets.
And so as we look forward I think what your question was leading to is the reset price for UAN.
The end products today are very positive.
As I mentioned earlier world demand and world S&amp;P scenario is being played out today.
And you're going to see that in the India tender for urea really plays well to what is going on with nitrogen.
And so I think UAN will set -- reset their positive place and -- but we have to be aware that there's a pretty long carry period for UAN.
So that price reset will be at a level that's attractive for an end-user to purchase in-store and then we will continue to move and produce our products.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Neivert with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Couple of quick questions.
One on your customer deposits it's not a huge number but can you characterize what time frame those are set in or do they go out to the third or fourth quarter? Are they predominantly for second quarter deliveries? Talk a little bit about that.
And also if there is anything out into the quarters beyond the second what kind of price differential -- and again not listing the price but what kind of differential are you seeing between the current pricing second quarter pricing and the quarters out beyond that point if you sold into those quarters already? As a general matter Charlie we're very comfortable with our order book position.
We're very comfortable what we've seen as it trends in pricing.
And beyond that I don't want to be any more specific.
I don't think that's what we do in the normal course.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-on have you done any 2013 hedging on gas at all? Our gas hedging position is essentially unchanged from the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jackson with BMO Capital Markets.
Maybe as a follow-up on the last question.
I know you've given the same guidance for your gas hedge for the rest -- for 2012.
Maybe you could speak about if you hedged more than that for Q1? And also if you could give a little bit color right now what you think of sort of your gas position and what types of spreads we should be thinking at some of the benchmarks like Henry Hub and AECO to get an idea of what we can track? Joel I'm not sure I understood your first question there.
Can I....
Oh I'm sorry.
On Q1 if you could give a little color on what amount of your gas was hedged? Going into the first quarter we had hedged roughly 2/3 of our natural gas for the full year.
And it was not exactly pro rata through the year but it was close to that.
Was it a little bit higher or lower? Can you...
Well it was approximately pro rata all the way through the year.
And your second question was about basis differential and natural gas? How we should think about the gas please? Well we normally have an advantageous position in -- at Medicine Hat.
We normally have an advantageous position at our Oklahoma plants.
We normally have an advantageous position at Courtright Ontario.
And I think our Port Neal facility is generally less than Henry Hub.
Donaldsonville of course is right on top of Henry Hub.
Did I miss anybody? Those numbers move around but they're I think pretty widely available in publications.
Okay.
And finally in the quarter obviously the U.S.
under imported urea for the end of Q4 and a little bit in Q1.
Can you maybe speak about some of your gain in the quarter beyond just some of the mild weather and the big acres? But some of it came from market share pickup here because of the under importation.
Maybe quantify it if you can? We ship as much product as we make and we're able to sell it.
Bert anything you want to add to that? Just relative to market share I would look at it on a 5-year import average for urea or the other products and then compare.
And urea was under imported in 2012 relative to the 5-year average.
And there -- I think that drives a bit of the supply and demand imbalance that we experienced in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Steve 2 questions.
You talked about how many more corn acres there are versus your original expectations when you set some of your targets.
Do you still think 96 million acres is the right way for us to be thinking about things given the way you're seeing the market develop and corn going to ground? And second question KEYTRADE was a small -- relatively small deal with relatively large strategic impact.
I'm curious whether global fertilizer distribution is on your wish list when you think about capital allocation opportunities? Okay.
With respect to corn acreage our internal view on corn acres is just a little bit less than the USDA which is 95.3 million.
At this point all we know is that a lot of corn is being planted.
Whether we get to 96 million I don't think anybody knows it at this point.
But given the amount of nitrogen that's moving it's going to be a pretty big number.
We're very -- obviously very pleased with our KEYTRADE relationship.
In fact KEYTRADE is celebrating their 15th anniversary as a company this weekend.
We haven't been with them quite all that time.
KEYTRADE is in the trading business not in the distribution business.
So fertilizer distribution around the world is a very different business.
We're very comfortable with our position as a manufacturer mostly manufacturing for the domestic market but accessing the world markets when it's appropriate for us to do so.
I would not say that we would never consider that but that's not something that's prominent on our radar screen.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Tiberio with Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First off I thought I heard that you mentioned that ammonia volumes might be down year-over-year in the second quarter.
If that's the case do you expect urea patterns to be very similar in the second quarter? Well the ammonia situation is characterized I think in the following way.
A year ago we had a huge second quarter in ammonia and a fairly weak first quarter.
This year we had a huge first quarter.
And given that there is roughly the same amount of land to which direct application ammonia is applied then I think it's a reasonable expectation for ammonia to be down in the second quarter compared to a year ago.
For us we don't really care whether it's in the first quarter or the second quarter.
We're in the middle of a huge nitrogen demand pattern in the first half of the year.
And so we expect a huge UAN movement weather-permitting in the second quarter.
And I think it's also important to note that we've had rising prices.
And if you look at year-over-year prices market prices right now are stronger than they were a year ago.
We're going to sell -- again weather-permitting we're going to sell everything we can make.
We're going to be testing our ability to sweep the floors of our warehouses and drain product from our tanks.
And we welcome the challenge of doing that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question we've heard from some of the potash producers that distributors have been more cautious in restocking inventory levels.
Post-spring planting can you just give us some color on some of the initial conversations that you're having with your distributors and whether you're seeing the same cautiousness on the nitrogen side? Okay.
Tim I'll make a general comment and then Bert may want to add to it.
Every year is different.
And following the problems of 2008 a lot of people down the chain became reticent to making commitments and rightfully so because they got burned.
That reticence actually was in full display end of 2011 and end of 2012.
And what I think a number of customers are experiencing now is lack of having made commitments as translated into either late availability or difficulty in getting commitments from producers.
And so my general belief is that there'll be some moderation of this view coming out of this year.
There may be incremental willingness to commit earlier than was the case this past winter.
Bert? I think where we are in inventory we're into drawdown period for all the products.
And so it's natural that we would trend at the end of the quarter -- the second quarter to low inventory.
And I think part of this is good decision-making on the distribution channel to moderate their purchases to manage their risk which is managing their inventory and be prepared for the reset period.
But also that moves into I think our sweet spot of logistics where we're active on all modes of transport of the end products.
And so I think it's going to be a positive position for CF going forward on the reset.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just Steve quickly on your hedging strategy on a higher level.
Is there a maximum amount of exposure that you can hedge and is 2/3 the max you can go? And is there any change in your strategy in terms of hedging? In general there's been no change in our strategy towards hedging.
We ended up taking some positions in excess of what had become traditional for us at the end of 2011 because the market gave us that opportunity.
It is our maximum -- well clearly the technical maximum is what our production is how many ammonia molecules do we need translated back into MMBtus of gas.
From a more practical standpoint we would obviously want to leave a little bit of room for unplanned outages and so forth so that we didn't overcommit.
And frankly I think we like being in the spot market to a meaningful extent in a market like we just had.
So every day is different in a commodity business and we will continue to evaluate.
Our committee will meet and get together.
But our overall philosophy of hedging has really not changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And secondly any thoughts on new nitrogen capacity in the U.S.? It looks like some brownfield capacity is getting delayed.
And then anything on this Orascom plant that is proposed in Iowa? Well I don't know any more about that particular plant than I've read about.
I think anybody who is contemplating building ammonia capacity in the U.S.
should have a pretty good grasp on the environmental challenges associated with building that capacity and obviously that includes ourselves.
And whether that ever got -- would get built I don't know.
But I think in today's environment with respect to environment it would be a challenge.
In our particular case we are sitting in a pretty good position because of all the plant sites we have all the infrastructure we have and our own experience in expanding production on a brownfield basis.
So the projects that we are contemplating in this $1 billion to $1.5 billion that we may spend will be quite lower cost than greenfield capacity in the range of let's say 1/3 to 1/2 the capital cost of new capacity.
That's a great position to be in.
We can do that relatively quickly.
We would phase it in constant with -- in concert with our normal turnaround schedule.
But it is really -- it's a set of high-return low-risk projects that we're really hopeful we can undertake.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Rystrom with Feltl.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First one would have to do with kind of seasonality.
I'm assuming given how wet it was last spring that a lot of the side-dressing pushed off into July compared to the more typical June.
And I'm wondering if you see a 3Q pull into 2Q because of that? And then I know a lot of farmers are focused on harvesting corn as quickly as possible given how tight the carry out is and then the inverted basis on corn particularly in kind of the key ethanol refining states where premiums are $1 say per bushel over the cash price.
Do you feel that the ammonia application typical in the fourth quarter might get pulled a little in the third quarter? That would be the first question.
Bert do you want to talk about the seasonality on UAN? Well I'll hit them with the side-dress.
Yes what you're going to see -- what we're seeing is -- and you can see it in the published planting speed that's going on obviously you're going to have an earlier -- as we've all said an earlier crop in the ground which would then push forward the side-dress season.
And so we're anticipating here in a few weeks probably in the lower half of the United States that the side-dress for ammonia would take place and UAN will be a little bit later in the Northern tier.
Iowa has a little bit later planting than Illinois.
And your second part on harvesting early and then possible early application of ammonia that will depend on soil temperatures and the right application periods.
So yes the corn could come off early.
Let's say it's in the ground 3 to 4 weeks early so you might pull the harvest 3 to 4 weeks early which would be nice if it dried out by December -- or by September.
But we would anticipate that ammonia then being -- that they would do the fieldwork to prepare for ammonia that would only probably commence in late October.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You need the 50 degrees basically? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then final question.
Can you give any sense of how much of your expected 2Q sales were exposed to spot pricing at the start of the quarter for nitrogen? Well we're in the market every day.
Bert's people are answering the phone.
In general there's been a lag in spot prices showing up in our order book and our shipments but we're very comfortable with our position in all of our products with respect to the margins that are in that book.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Cox with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could quantify the turnaround cost at the Florida facility and what sort of benefits we might be able to expect in the second half? We do turnarounds on an ongoing basis.
It's just part of our normal routine.
The benefits of doing a turnaround are we keep the facility in tip-top shape operating to its capability and prolong its life.
The other thing that we did was we moved the turnaround out of later in the year to earlier in the year partly because of the soft nature of the market opportunity that was there.
So we took an outage during the period of soft demand.
So we'll have production capacity online later in the year where we believe pricing will be more supportive.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And on the topic of cash deployment I'd be curious as to the thought process of a comprehensive strategy when you do unveil your plans for that $1 billion to $1.5 billion capital project.
Would that be a time when we could potentially expect a broader platform of how to expect use of cash at CF over time? When we have comments to make about deployment of cash we'll be making them.
That's all I have to say on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is Chris Perrella on for Kevin.
One question -- or 2 questions.
But did you have a free hand in buying back shares during the first quarter or are there any factors that it precluded you from coming to the market? Chris I think on our fourth quarter conference call we made it clear that the basket had been refreshed under our revolver and we're free to go.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up do you expect at the fill season here after the spring application is over for more normal inventory restocking? Things have been tight.
Do you expect more people to step back in and top off at the end of the spring? We expect normal behavior.
Inventory will be very low for at least 2 of the 3 nutrients.
That would be N and P.
And so we were anticipating actually probably heavy purchasing because -- then you get into a logistical situation where you can only move so many railcars of UAN and the pipe can only handle so much ammonia up through.
And then also we'll be participating in the international market because we do see heavy demand for phosphate in South America.
And we'll be monitoring India to see if we need to participate or not.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You had a wonderful first quarter and it looks like you'll have a wonderful year.
And so the company probably has much more financial flexibility than you might have imagined that you would have.
Does that open up various acquisition opportunities for you either in North America or offshore that you might not have looked at as carefully? Well thanks for that question.
That's a nice question to have.
We have a very good window to the world.
We hear a lot of opportunities.
We will normally look at any opportunity that pops up in front of us.
On the M&amp;A front if something were to come along as attractive we certainly wouldn't hesitate to consider it.
We have been -- 3 years ago Jeff we were in a position -- maybe 4 years ago of absolutely needing to diversify away from North America and that was an objective for us.
As shale gas developed this country our existing asset base became more valuable.
It certainly has reinforced the value of the Terra acquisition.
So our -- we're comfortable with our North American profile today.
And we -- I think it's safe to say that given our disciplined nature that the fact that we have more jingle on our pocket doesn't make us any less disciplined in our deployment of cash.
Research Division</strong> I didn't mean to imply that you would be less disciplined.
I just wondered...
I understood.
I just felt that I should make that comment in light of the question.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Isaacson with Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Steve just one quick question for you maybe as a follow-up to Jeff's.
When I think about the potential transfer of ownership of the 34% stake in Medicine Hat that you don't own can you give us some color as to what extent CF is involved in that process? Does CF have a first -- sorry a right of first refusal on the asset? Well Ben just as a matter of prudence we don't comment on announced pending transactions by other people.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But given the agreement that exists between CF and by Terra historically has there been a right of first refusal? As I said we don't comment on pending transactions announced by other people.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Picken with Cleveland Research.
I guess a couple of questions.
One is why has urea imports been down year-on-year if the expectation among the market was that we were going to see increase in corn acres? Could you talk a little bit about that? Bert? We've had several factors impacting movement of urea and we had some difficult markets.
If you look back over the previous years we've had a collapse of pricing in March and April.
And so those who imported early were punished for that decision.
And so I think with -- if you watch what the traders and the producers a lot of this product are shipped in by producers direct and then put on barge.
I think they were playing a more prudent hand looking for more spot purchases or sales around the world.
And also the China impact we had probably 1 million tons come in to the United States in January -- December and January a few years ago and that product is basically nonexistent this year.
So when you factor all that in a few plant problems around the world the new capacities do not come online less available and the risk of the forward market I think people -- again the traders and producers were just acting more in a short-term interest.
Okay.
Great.
And then just shifting gears real quick.
Do you guys have sort of a target like optimal either leverage ratio or debt-to-cap ratio or -- and debt to EBITDA or however you look at it but is there sort of kind of as you think out to the long term where you'd like to see your leverage ratios at? Dennis? Yes I guess in the past Steve I think we said 1x EBITDA or 1 point.
And I think as you can imagine given where we are in the cycle right now you can see that we're significantly below that which is sort of what you'd expect.
I don't have any particular target level of debt in mind for the company.
I think I would just go back to what Steve said which is we have to look out and see kind of the environment that we're facing in going forward and take a judgment as to what's the best way to capitalize the company given all the strategic opportunities and whatever that we have in front of us.
So I don't have any particular target in mind.
But at this point in time obviously we're well below what we had stated before.
But given where we are in the cycle I think that you'd expect that.
I would add just want thought to that and that is to follow up on the Moody's upgrade we had this week.
We think we've had investment grade credit statistics for a long time.
And so generally my view there over the long period we ought to maintain investment grade and an investment grade credit profile.
Whether that results in investment grade rating or not is out of our control but what is in control is our own capital structure.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Dan Swenson for closing remarks.
We'd like to thank everyone here who participated on the call today.
If you need more information about CF Industries or our results please contact me.
We thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Welcome to the second quarter 2012 CF Industries Holdings earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions)  As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn your conference over to your host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I’m Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications and with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales and Market Development; and Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its second quarter 2012 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen LP.
On this call we’ll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we’ll host a question and answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the investor relations section of our website at www.cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor Statement included in yesterday’s new release and the Slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do now place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Yesterday afternoon CF Industries reported earnings of $606 million and diluted earnings per share of $9.31 both records for any quarter in the company’s history.
We also generated over $1 billion of EBITDA during the quarter.
These results attest to the earnings power of CF Industries the execution of our business plans and very favorable market conditions.
With the early start to the planting season strong corn demand and attractive farm level economics over 96 million acres of corn were planted a post WWII record.
The high corn acreage along with ideal spring weather conditions created strong nitrogen demand that continued through the planting season.
As a result for the first six months of the year we sold a record volume of nitrogen products driven by ammonia and urea.
During this time period we sold nearly 75 000 tons more ammonia than last year and about 120 000 tons more urea.
The increase in urea sales was possible due to our flexible configuration that allowed us to cut back UAN production in order to maximize higher margin urea.
Market demand in the second quarter was strong for all nitrogen products although we sold less nitrogen in the second quarter 2012 than in 2011.
This was primarily due to demand that was pulled forward to the first quarter.
The strong demand and movement through distributors and retailers during the quarter resulted in exceptionally low North American nitrogen inventories at June 30<sup>th</sup>.
Using our own inventories as proxies for those across North America we believe that producer inventories of nitrogen products were at or near historical lows.
Throughout this period of high demand our team worked diligently to meet our customers’ nutrient needs.
This is evidenced by the record 95 000 tons of ammonia that we shipped through our Velva North Dakota terminal in April and May.
To put this movement in context we have only 30 000 tons of storage at Velva which means we turned the inventory in that location three times during those two months.
Our employees demonstrated terrific execution which allowed us to capture incremental sales and margin during a peak period.
The application season demand was evident in the prices we realized during the quarter.
Urea prices increased 34% compared to a year ago driven by strong demand and tight North American inventory.
Ammonia prices increased 7% due to high demand for direct application.
UAN prices were essentially unchanged from the second quarter 2011 but were up sequentially as customers came into the market after delaying purchases earlier in the year.
It was not until the application season came to an end that urea and UAN prices began their normal declines from seasonal highs.
However ammonia prices remained high at the end of the quarter due to ongoing demand for direct application of the phosphate production tight worldwide supply and low inventories throughout the distribution channel.
During the quarter we continued to benefit from low cost natural gas as increased gas production kept prices in check even with the demand created by hot weather and the associated increase in electricity consumption.
In our phosphate segment export sales were up 21% as international markets continued to provide us with the best margin opportunities.
Additionally during the quarter we started manufacturing sulfur enhanced MAP or MAPS which was moved into inventory in preparation for sales in future periods.
During the quarter CF Industries generated exceptional earnings and operating cash flow.
We utilized some of that cash to complete the remaining $500 million of our share repurchase program at an average price of $163.89 per share.
Under the full $1.5 billion repurchase program we bought back a total of 9.6 million shares at an average price of $156.80.
We are pleased to have completed the program and I will have additional comments on our capital allocation plans after Dennis provides more financial highlights from the quarter and first half.
During the second quarter of 2012 the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $606 million or $9.31 per diluted share.
This compares to $487 million or $6.75 per diluted share in the second quarter 2011.
Our second quarter 2012 earnings included a non-cash mark-to-market gain on natural gas derivatives of approximately $78 million and $15 million of amortization of capitalized financing fees related to the termination of our prior credit facility.
The net impact of these two items was an increase of $0.60 in after tax earnings per diluted share.
Our nitrogen business performed exceptionally well during the second quarter.
We delivered 3.5 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin of 66% which you can see on Slide Six.
The increase in segment gross margin reflects released natural gas cost of $3.13 per mmbtu during the second quarter of 2012 as compared to $4.32 a year ago.
It also reflects a non-cash mark-to-market gain of $78 million on natural gas derivatives contracts in the second quarter 2012 as compared to a loss of $14 million in the prior year period.
At the end of the quarter we had hedged positions for approximately 60% of our expected natural gas purchases for the remainder of 2012.
During the second quarter of 2012 we sold 793 000 tons of ammonia at an average released price of $635 per ton.
Ammonia volume for the second quarter of 2012 was 19% lower than a year ago primarily due to the early start of the application season in 2012 that pulled ammonia demand into the first quarter of the year.
Our average released sales price for ammonia was 7% higher in the second quarter of last year due to tight industry wide inventory and strong demand.
Second quarter sales of granular urea decreased by 5% year-over-year to 694 000 tons.
Our volume decreased due to lower sales into the northern tier of the US and lower inventory available for sale at the beginning of the quarter due to the strong sales volume in the first quarter of 2012.
Our average realized price of $522 per ton was 34% higher than in the second quarter of 2011 due to tight North American product inventories and robust demand through the application season.
During the second quarter of 2012 we sold nearly 1.63 million tons of UAN compared to approximately 1.65 million tons in the second quarter 2011.
Average UAN price realizations were $324 per ton essentially unchanged from the second quarter 2011.
As shown on Slide Seven our phosphate segment achieved total revenues during the quarter of $232 million down about 22% from the second quarter 2011.
Total sales volume was 493 000 tons 8% lower than in the second quarter 2011.
Exports increased from 45% of our phosphate sales volume in the second quarter 2011 to 59% this year because of stronger buying interest and more attractive net prices outside North America.
Average phosphate price realizations during the second quarter were about 15% lower than 2011 due to muted global demand and the segment generated 22% gross margin down from the 29% gross margin reported a year ago due to lower average selling prices.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $446 million in the second quarter 2012 an increase of $195 million from 2011 primarily due to higher net earnings and lower accounts receivables.
These quarterly results contributed to a record setting first half for CF Industries.
For the six months ended June 30 2012 the company set records across a number of financial metrics including revenues EBITDA earnings and earnings per share.
Total first half revenues were a record $3.3 billion compared to $3 billion in the prior year.
First half volume was a record 7.7 million tons compared to 7.6 million tons the prior year period.
Total EBITDA for the six month period increased 19% to $1.8 billion while total gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 54% from 47% driven by both higher selling prices and lower natural gas costs.
These items contributed to a 27% increase in net earnings to common stockholders to a record $975 million and a long with share repurchase activity increased earnings per diluted share by 39% to $14.81 per share.
The repurchase program lowered our weighted average diluted share count in the second quarter by 1.3 million shares which had the impact of increasing our earnings per share by $0.19.
Total repurchases made under the program approved in August 2011 reduced weighted average diluted shares for the six months ended June 30 2012 by 7.2 million shares which increased our year-to-date earnings per diluted share by $1.46.
Finally I want to highlight the recent move by Standard &amp; Poors to upgrade our credit ratings to investment grade.
This is the latest recognition by the rating agencies of the strength of our business model and our successful track record in executing our business plans and maintaining an investment grade credit rating profile.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Long term trends and population growth higher protein diets and the use of crops for renewable fuels continue to drive demand for plant nutrients.
[Inaudible] global grain and oil seed supplies have driven crop prices higher and created the incentives for farmers to plant a large crop again next year.
Natural gas prices are in a favorable range for us and have contributed to a strong earnings profile for the company.
What was great weather for spring planting and fertilizer applications turned into very difficult growing conditions in many areas.
The dry and hot weather has reduced expectations for yields harvested acres and therefore crop production.
This naturally should lead to very low [stock-to-use] ratios for crops corn being the most significant.
We currently estimate US corn yields will be approximately 135 bushels per acre which would be the lowest yield since 2002 and that number could go even lower.
Given their poor condition crops in many fields will be abandoned and harvested corn acres will likely be two to four million acres lower than the latest USDA forecast.
This significant decline in corn production will be partially offset by reduced demand due to high corn prices but still could result in a [stock-to-use] ratio of just 5.5% for the 2012 to 2013 marketing year which would be the second lowest level in 40 years.
Reduced corn supply is creating a need and high corn prices are creating the incentive for farmers to plant an estimated 96 million acres of corn again in 2013.
This expected large planted crop supports our expectation for significant demand for nitrogen a nutrient that must be applied every year.
We are aware that good fall application conditions require additional moisture and of course we don’t know whether sufficient rain will arrive.
However regardless of fall conditions high grain prices and expected spring planting should result in strong nutrient demand.
We expect phosphate demand to be strong for the rest of the year.
Increased demand in Latin America is expected to develop as tight worldwide course grain stocks and associated high grain prices motivate farmers to plant significant acres of all crops especially soybeans.
India still needs to purchase additional phosphates which would also provide support to the market through the balance of the year.
These near term dynamics are representative of the long term fundamentals that support our beliefs in the value of CF Industries and the cash generation capabilities of our business given us confidence that we can both invest for earnings growth and return cash to shareholders.
Our recent announced agreement to purchase Viterra’s interest in CFL our jointly owned nitrogen production facility in Medicine Hat Alberta is a key example of our strategy to invest in projects that have attractive risk adjusted returns.
We have operated the Medicine Hat complex for 35 years and know the asset inside and out.
The facility is located in one of the lowest natural gas cost regions in North America and serves a key agricultural area.
We look forward to having access to all of Medicine Hat’s production and to being able to make investment decisions at our sole discretion.
As noted in our earnings release we recently reviewed and updated our potential North American nitrogen investment opportunities.
We now anticipate spending approximately $2 billion between 2013 and 2016 on capacity expansion and product upgrade projects.
These projects if all are approved and executed could provide us with approximately 1 million additional gross tons of ammonia and 3.5 million tons of combined UAN and urea capacity.
We expect that the bulk of these investments will be made from 2014 through 2016 and that meaningful amounts of additional ammonia capacity could come on stream beginning in 2015.
The nature of these brown field investments should enable us to bring additional product to market well before a Greenfield complex could be permitted and constructed.
We expect to announce some specifics of this program before year end.
While we’re making these investments to enhancing earning capacity of our business we will continue to return excess cash to shareholders.
As part of our plans to do so we have approved a new program to repurchase up to $3 billion worth of our common shares through December 31 2016.
We believe that a judiciously executed share repurchase program is the most appropriate means by which we can return excess cash to shareholders yet retain the flexibility to invest in value enhancing growth opportunities such as the acquisition of the interest in CFL and our capacity expansion projects.
We completed the prior repurchase program within 10 months a full 19 months before its expiration and we executed the program in a measured and disciplined fashion.
Given the size and duration of the new share repurchase initiative we believe it should be viewed as a long term program rather than as a single event.
We will continue to carefully weigh our options and invest cash when and where we feel it will provide the best returns.
Before taking your questions I’d like to reflect on our strategic positioning.
Our company has developed and successfully executed a sharply focused strategy based on our operating strengths and our commitment to shareholder value.
The Terra acquisition in 2010 more than doubled our capacity in the North American nitrogen industry creating the largest presence in arguably the best market in the world and with the best cost profile from which to serve that market.
Both our upcoming Medicine Hat acquisition and our brown field investment program are completely aligned with that strategy.
This focused growth strategy has been complimented by returning to shareholders capital that is not needed to execute our investment program.
The new $3 billion share purchase program is an extension of that commitment to our shareholders.
It is my hope and our teams shared objective that our shareholders recognize the operating investment and financial discipline that has led to these decisions and the resulting actions and performance.
This focus and discipline will continue to characterize all of our activities.
With that we’ll now open the line to answer your questions.
(Operator Instructions)  Your first question comes from Kevin McCarthy – Bank of America.
A quick question on your nitrogen capital projects in North America.
You’ve raised that number to 2 billion from one to 1.5 previously I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on whether or not the cost per unit of capacity is rising or whether it’s the case that you’re simply looking at more incremental capacity now than you might have been in the past or perhaps some combination of those two? Essentially what we found is more opportunity than we thought we had when we last talked about this.
In other words more capacity and upgrading capability that we originally thought.
Just maybe a broad question Steve with regard to the way this crop is shaping up and the epic drought everyone is experiencing.
You threw out some numbers on yield and a forecast that the harvested acres would decline as well.
If we have a more extreme scenario where production comes in say less than 11 million bushels as an example can you speak to how you think corn demand will be backed out in terms of animal feed exports and whether or not you think the ethanol mandate will be addressed as some point in terms of a waiver? We think in general the market will take care of rationing itself.
Everyone knows that livestock herds are being thinned as we speak.
That’s the first piece of demand to go away.
Certainly it’s possible that export volume could go down and we’ve seen some economics at work in the ethanol market capacity being throttled back and then coming back in and so forth so I’d expect to see that continue.
Whether the ethanol mandate might be suspended or waive is obviously a political decision.
The political winds go in various directions during an election year so it’s hard to predict whether that might happen but it’s certainly a potential tool to ratio corn demand.
Your next question comes from Don Carson – Susquehanna International Group.
A question on your nitrogen capital plans first on Greenfield I know you’ve been a little more cautious on the ability to get permits for Greenfield nitrogen.
Some of your competitors don’t seem to think it’s an issue so maybe you could just update us on permitting status for a new plant and why you’re still not considering a Greenfield plant?  Then on your increase in capacity is that partly due to Medicine Hat that now you’ve got more flexibility once you own 100% that you can put more capacity north of the border which I guess is a somewhat friendlier permitting environment? With respect to your second question I don’t think acquiring the Medicine Hat interest impacts our general look at this portfolio of opportunities.
Medicine Hat was in the mix of sites being considered all along and continues to be certainly on the table for us.
With respect to Greenfield versus brown field and related permitting issues I mean permitting is a challenge in industrial businesses in America broadly.
Fortunately for us we operate at seven sites in North America we have brown field opportunities in many of those locations and so we’re really not faced with the challenge of Greenfield citing.
The brown field opportunities are much more economic.
We believe they can be permitted designed and built much faster than a Greenfield opportunity so we’re very pleased with the position that we’re in.
But permitting is a challenge and I certainly would caution anybody who is thinking about building capacity in the US who doesn’t have experience here.
It’s a hell of a challenge to get a complex permitted.
Just a follow up on that Greenfield permitting does that mean you have no plans at this time for a Greenfield plant or are you just waiting for November 7<sup>th</sup> to see if there is a friendlier regulatory environment in the US? The menu of opportunities that we’re looking at under the $2 billion we’ve talked about are all brown field opportunities.
Your next question comes from Vincent Andrews – Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to follow up on your last comments regarding the share repurchase and I think I heard something so I just want to clarify it.
You seemed to indicate that this repurchase would be I think you said something more long term in nature and less a function of singular events.
I just wanted to maybe try and understand how you’re going to allocate all this capital under the scope of the idea that obviously you want to remain investment grade so were you trying to say we should look to or we should model share repurchases happening ratably a quarter or do you think it would still be more opportunistic relative to where the equity value trades? What I was hoping to do was sort of broaden the look at this activity that investors and analysts give it.
We’ve done two repurchase programs since we’ve been public.
They were understandably the focus of attention by investors and I believe they were viewed as events.
Given now we’ve put in place a $3 billion repurchase program with a window that is a multiyear window we would hope to reduce the focus on the frequency and magnitude of share repurchases as being a quarterly event and hope you and others would view what we’ve done in the past as an indication that we are very prudent deployers of capital that we make good decisions whether they are investments in capital expenditures or investments in our own shares and that we have a good track record of doing that and intend to continue.
Just as a follow up could you just discuss a little bit anything you’re hearing from customers on cash flow issues or maybe also what’s happening with the river system given the low levels of water and if that poses or means anything in terms of the second half.
I’ll talk briefly about the river system and then I’ll ask Bert Frost to comment on the customer side.
We do have low river levels it’s created some challenges.
The challenge for us in the fertilizer business is not quite as great as it might be for example for people moving grain because the number of barges in a tow of fertilizer is much smaller than the number of barges in a tow of grain.
But it is slowing us down and it has a little bit of cost in the process.
We believe we’re in a good position to meet all of our customer needs.
That’s assuming that for example customer docks are accessible and things like that and those can be issues in individual locations.
But I would say so far we’re coping reasonably well and we have a very skilled supply chain group.
This is what they do for a living and they’ve got their thumb on the pulse of all of this and are working hard to make this a non-event.
Regarding customer I think cash flows you have to remember our customer base is broad.
We’re exporting products through our key trade arm we’re working with wholesalers retailers and traders in the United States.
So if you’re narrowly looking at a cash flow issue you’d probably go down to the retailer.
We’ve had several really good years in the United States with fertilizer input and feed movement and so I think today everyone in the value chain is doing well.
What you will probably see as we go through the drought and the harvest and ramifications of that you will see the revenue guarantee programs of crop insurance kicking in so there will be an average of the harvest month and then the farmers will then be getting that cash and that’s where I think it begins at that level of cash flow.
Then that will work its way back up the value chain and those farmers will then start purchasing their crop inputs and we will see a more normal probably movement of purchasing and movement to the field in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from Michael Piken – Cleveland Research Company.
I just wanted to circle back and talk a little bit more about some of the international events happening.
One I was wondering what your expectations are for Chinese urea and phosphate exports in the second half of the year and then secondarily when you think some of this new capacity in the Middle East is now going to come online? Our view on urea exports out of China for this year is down from last year something in the range of 2.8 million tons or thereabouts.
Last year I think it was about 3.5 so that’s a significant drop.
Of course we don’t have any direct insight into how they manage this specifically we just watch the flows like everyone else.
With respect to capacity expansions every year we go through a cycle of looking at all of the new capacity that is looming on the horizon and then we watch as the year unfolds and invariably a number of projects are delayed and that has been the case again this year there have been delays on projects either in the construction or the ramping up for example [COPCO 6s] is up but it’s not running at capacity.
We have projects in Egypt that are delayed and so forth.
I think by in large what has happened again this year is we roughly have capacity coming on roughly in line with the growth in demand and we’re certainly comfortable with our global situation.
Your next question comes from P.
J.
Juvekar – Citigroup.
You mentioned 96 million acres of corn again in 2013.
Do you have an estimate for soybeans?  Then secondly just on this acreage issue Latin American acres are likely to go up but do you have anything on what you’re thinking how much it would go up? Our number for soybeans for next year is about 77 million acres.
I’m sorry what was your second question? How much could Latin American acres go up next year to compensate for the loss production in the US? I think you’re going to see – well they’re coming out of a difficult period where they harvested where you saw the loss in production in Argentina.
What you’re going to see is they roll into their planting season in October and Brazil specifically is a heavy influence on soybean probably at the detriment to first crop corn but I think you’ll see a rolling off of cotton which is planted in November a decrease in that acreage and that rolling into second crop corn.
So we’re anticipating an increase in fertilizer both nitrogen and phosphate in South America to one achieve higher yields and two due to higher acres planted.
Secondly there’s been a lot of discussion about drought and the dry soil and how it relates to nitrogen application.
Can you differentiate between sort of ammonia that is applied in the fall versus urea that could be applied in the spring and how does that shift occur between fall and spring? The basics here should we get no rain or insufficient rain between now and the harvest we would have very challenging field conditions for ammonia in the affected regions and it manifests itself in two ways by an inability to get the tools into the soil breaking tools etc.
breaking the knives and secondly if there’s lack of moisture inability to effectively seal the gaseous product into the soil.
If that were to happen or in areas where that happens that will simply change the timing of the nitrogen application and perhaps the form of nitrogen application.
It still would take a lot of nitrogen to support 96 million acres of corn and it will eventually get applied.
Just lastly you mentioned a Chinese urea export number do you have a similar phosphate export number for China? Our estimate is about 3.5 million tons of that down from around four million last year.
Your next question comes from Jeffrey Zekauskas – JP Morgan Securities.
When you think about your fertilizer production capability in 2013 versus 2012 excluding the enhanced ownership interest in Medicine Hat is it very much different than your capacity in 2012?  That is does it grow and if it grows where does it grow? I think it’s moving up a little bit.
I’ll ask Tony Will to comment on that.
I think the biggest source of increase for us ’13 over ’12 is that as we mentioned early in the year 2012 had an abnormally high amount of turnaround activity.
2011 was very light 2012 was high and 2013 will return to a more sort of moderate or normal year.
So that would account for a couple of percentage point increase in terms of total production for ’13 over ’12.
Just in terms of your capital expenditures in the second quarter versus the first you spent about $30 million more what did you spend it on?  What was the nature of the step up? We have a variety of projects in flight and a lot of that is just the timing of the cash flows and when the bills come in to be paid.
As we’ve kind of provided some guidance we’re still looking at somewhere circa $400 million for the year.
I think the run rate is a bit below that currently but again that’s more of a timing issue than whether we will get the projects done.
Your next question comes from Edlain Rodriquez – Lazard Capital Markets.
Just a quick question on your financial strategy now that you’ve put to rest the share buyback issues have you ever thought of ways to make the dividend yield more attractive such as establishing a base dividend and then kind of letting it fluctuate up and down by linking it to earnings growth also? Well we consider and debate a lot of things and that’s an interesting idea.
As I commented on in my prepared remarks we have come to the conclusion that for a company like us the best way for us to return capital to shareholders in significant amount is through a share repurchase program.
It is a lot more flexible it allows us to manage the outflow to shareholders along with other outflows notably investments either inside the fence or M&amp;A activity.
We will continue to look at all these things as time marches on but we’re pretty comfortable with where we landed on this matrix of opportunity.
Now that your debt ratings have improved how are you going to pay for the $950 million?  Is it going to be all cash or is it going to be some debt related to that?  Also just in terms of the tax rate we should be looking for going forward should it be that 32% you had in the first quarter or should it be the 36% we’ve had previously? It is our intention to pay for Medicine Hat out of available cash.
Obviously there will be a number of months between now and closing and we’ll be generating even more cash than our current position.
With respect to tax rate you saw the tax rate whether you look at non-controlling interest or not around 35% or 32% if you include the non-controlling interest.
We don’t expect that to change materially going forward it’s about where we expect to be.
Your next question comes from Analyst for Mark Connelly – CLSA.
I was hoping that you could provide some thoughts on extending overseas as a means of possible diversification? We have considered overseas nitrogen investment on occasion.
There was a time and it wasn’t too long ago when we felt we had a desperate need to diversify away from North American natural gas risk and I guess the judicious way in which we approached it played to our advantage because we didn’t make any decisions to go forward in that regard.
We don’t have blinders on though people bring ideas to us on a sporadic basis.
We always look at those ideas and should we find one that meets our criteria we would be certainly interested in pursuing it.
Those criteria are being close to a reliable and low cost source of raw materials having a stable political and economic environment having access to deep water because of the need to trade products globally and being in reasonable proximity to attractive markets.
But from where we are today the natural gas fundamentals both in North America and around the world suggest that our North American strategy is the appropriate one.
On a risk adjusted basis it’s hard for any offshore opportunity to come even close to the kind of brown field opportunities that we have in front of us today.
Can you give an update on your nat gas hedging strategy with gas moving up lately? Like we mentioned in the text of our prepared remarks we’ve got 60% of the gas we’ll need to consume in the remainder of the year has been hedged in the sense that we’ve got spots covering it and 40% is uncovered.
Going into 2013 I don’t think we have very much hedged out into 2013.
That’s kind of where we are.
Your next question comes from Tim Tiberio – Miller Tabak &amp; Co.
LLC.
LLC.</strong> My question is around export phosphate prices.
Based on your commentary on Latin American phosphate demand is it fair to say you see upward risk in phosphate export prices compared to the second quarter in the second half? What do you mean by upward risk? LLC.</strong> The potential for further price increases in the export markets.
That’s risk we would welcome.
We see positive markets going forward.
You still have significant India demand to be fulfilled and less Chinese product available as well as a narrow window to export that product on top of what you mentioned the Latin America demand that would be Brazil Argentina as well as Chile and some of the other countries Central America and Peru that we’re participating in.
So you have that combined with low inventories around the world Europe as well as North America so we see a positive operating environment and price environment going forward.
LLC.</strong> Just one last question as far as the potential impact from the timing of insurance payments this year do you think that will have a material impact on the demand linearity compared to 2011 or do you think most of the farmers should be able to get their insurance repayments before the start of the fall ammonia application season? I wouldn’t be that narrow in your view.
Yes there is the issue of crop insurance and when those payments will be made but you have to remember we’ve had several very positive years in the agricultural segment especially in the United States where farmers are probably doing very well on a cash flow basis and then there are other revenue opportunities or loans that are available that can be based off the crop insurance money coming in.
So a farmer is not going to miss his application of crop nutrient or applications whether that be [N P or K] just because of his insurance payment coming in a little late.
With the weather is cooperative and his field is ready and his crops have come off he will apply his crop nutrients to prepare himself to plant in the spring.
Your next question comes from Ben Isaacson – Scotia Capital.
Just two quick questions first can you talk a little bit about where the products will get placed that you’ve purchased from CFL?  Will that go to the new owners of the Viterra retail assets or will that go into your kind of larger distribution network? We’re pleased to be able to acquire that interest and have that product to sell.
All that product is going someplace today we’re going to be setting up a sales operation in that region and we look forward to developing relationships with customers who are interested in taking the product.
We’ll be open for business and have the order book in hand.
Then just a second question maybe for Bert.
You talk about lower granular urea sales into the northern tier of the US.
Was that a strategic decision you made on a one off basis and if so why?  Or was that due to poor demand?  Can you give just a little bit of color there? As we look at our mix and where we move our products we tend to move some of that Medicine Hat product into the northern tier where you had a lot of corn acreage this year which for that reason we Velva and our high ammonia pull through that terminal during April and May but then that market also uses urea as well as Montana and Idaho.
So we had a little bit of a decrease in that northern tier but also we had a little less of production so that got factored into the mix.
Your next question comes from Ian Horowitz – Topeka Capital Markets.
Just a quick question around the moisture necessary can you just give us a little bit more color? I mean I understand with some rain the fall application season can go as scheduled but what exactly does that mean?  We’re seeing drought conditions throughout the US at significantly high levels how much rain is necessary to keep everything on track? You have to remember when we talk about the drought it’s not throughout the United States.
There are some areas that are having fairly good yields that would be the southern tier like Mississippi Louisiana as well as the northern tier Minnesota and North Dakota.
However there are areas that are experiencing a lack of rain as we know and that could be spotty we’re not climatologists we’re not weather people.
You read some of these reports also and current expectations if you look at the trends for example in Boone County Iowa the average rain fall is eight inches during the period of September through November and we expect that if they were to receive five inches during that period that would be significant enough to allow not only application but sealing of the ammonia.
So something along that kind of ratio would be necessary to be able to do a traditional application? I gave you a snapshot of one county in Iowa just to give you an indication.
We do need rain.
It will come in some form or fashion and if there’s not sufficient rain available then UAN becomes a great product and we happen to be a great producer of that product.
Is there a temperature issue that we should be concerned about as well for fall? No our customers the retailer wholesalers and traders that sell our products to the farmer the farmer is well aware of what he needs to do ergonomically to be successful and that’s following the four R application and there’s a specific temperature of around 50 degrees that they target.
So it’s not necessarily an ambient temperature but a soil temperature that they target and then obviously like I said earlier the ability to seal.
Your next question comes from [Mark Gooley – Gooley &amp; Associates].
I have two questions I’m going to ask you to put on your crop economist hat for a second.
If you go back and look at what demand forecasts were for corn way back in let’s say February we were talking about 13 million bushels do you have a view right now how much at least semi permanent demand destruction there’s been because of these high prices demand that won’t come back for a bit on a go forward basis as we look into demand for next year? I don’t think I have such a number.
I wouldn’t suggest that there’s any permanent demand destruction.
The market will correct itself.
When we get off $8 corn we’ll have some demand come back.
When it gets down to $6 we’ll have more come back.
It’s a pretty elastic market.
Secondly with respect to your purchase of the Medicine Hat minority interest I guess the good news is that you got that at a very attractive EBITDA multiple.
But I guess the flip side of that coin is a little bit to the extent that the seller is willing to part with that asset at such a low multiple what does that say about the profitability prospects for ammonia going forward?  It would suggest that perhaps these peak levels are peak levels and that the real multiple on a go forward basis is somewhat higher than the one you might calculate.
I have two comments on it.
First of all the seller is not in the fertilizer manufacturing and distribution business.
The seller is after other assets out of Viterra the grain assets in particular so this is an asset that they weren’t interested in maintaining.
Secondly this is quite an attractive area.
It’s gas cost advantaged and I think likely to continue to be so and I’d suggest that anyone who cares to look at this more closely can simply take the additional volumes we are acquiring apply an [inaudible] of gas cost and market prices that are available in that region which are readily available in public sources and I think you’ll find that the EBITDA potential there is quite attractive and we’re very excited to be acquiring this asset at this price.
Ladies and gentlemen I will now turn the call over to Dan Swenson.
We’d like to thank everyone who participated on the call today.
If you need more information about CF Industries or our results please contact me.
Operator that concludes our call.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Darcella and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications and with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales and Market Development; and Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its third quarter 2012 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company LP.
On this call we’ll review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we’ll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor statement included in yesterday’s news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties.
Do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
From the perspective of a crop nutrient manufacturer especially a nitrogen producer it would be difficult to imagine a better business setting and the way this year has progressed.
An extended spring fertilizer application season along with an exceptionally large number of corn acres planted in the U.S.
led to very strong demand for fertilizers in the first half of the year.
Unfortunately for farmers weather that was so conducive to field preparation and planting work turned harshly hot and dry withering crops and sending grain prices soaring.
Thankfully many farmers had crop insurance which protected them financially and should ensure their liquidity going into next year's planting season.
Dry weather along with early crop maturity has led to an early harvest with 95% of the corn crop harvested as of November 4 about 4 weeks ahead of average.
As a result fields are clear and ready for nutrient applications much earlier than normal positioning the North American fertilizer industry for potential or a potential extended fall application season.
With so much of the harvest complete recent rains across the midwest and northern plains have been well-timed to alleviate soil moisture concerns in most areas and created field conditions conducive to fall ammonia application.
These conditions along with the expectation that farmers will plant 97 million acres of corn in 2013 led to exceptionally strong dealer demand for fertilizer for summer fill and fall application and set the stage for us to deliver another strong quarter of financial results.
As detailed in our press release published yesterday afternoon we realized record third quarter EBITDA net earnings and earnings per share.
Our EBITDA of $729 million increased 14% over the prior-year period.
Our net earnings of $403 million increased 22% and our diluted earnings per share of $6.35 was 34% higher than the prior year period.
Low water levels on the river transportation system presented logistical challenges during the quarter but our team did a great job of overcoming them.
In so doing we've proved once again the value of our unmatched production and distribution network.
To cite just one example of this capability a few years ago we made investments in our Palmyra Missouri Ammonia Terminal to expand its capacity to load barges with ammonia it receives via pipeline from Donaldsonville.
When the low water level on the Mississippi caused a shipping bottleneck we've diverted 2 of our empty southbound ammonia tows that had been headed to Donaldsonville.
Instead we reloaded them at Palmyra which is north of the choke point and then sent those barges up the Illinois River effectively using our access to the NuStar Ammonia Pipeline to deliver product around the Mississippi River choke points.
When Hurricane Isaac came through Louisiana in August we did shut down production at Donaldsonville as a precautionary measure.
We incurred no significant damage and had the complex back on stream to begin production within 3 days.
We experienced strong ammonia volume and prices during the third quarter.
Volume was higher than last year's third quarter as farmers were busy applying ammonia to winter wheat across Texas Oklahoma and Kansas and as dealers and distributors who have their own storage sought to secure product inventory in anticipation of the strong application season they are currently seeing across the Corn Belt.
Along with the strong demand tight global ammonia supplies due to ongoing gas curtailments in Trinidad and production outages in the Middle East and Russia caused ammonia prices to increase significantly compared to a year ago.
Expectations of robust farm-level nitrogen demand also prompted strong buying interest when we launched our UAN summer fill program back in June resulting in an increase in UAN shipments during the third quarter of 2012 versus the prior year.
However UAN imports during July and August were 28% higher than last year which constrained prices.
Urea imports during July and August were up about 14% from a year ago and India's year-to-date purchases as of the end of September were approximately 9% below last year.
Exports from China were higher than anticipated and the year-to-date expert volume through September was 2.6 million tons versus 1.9 million tons in 2011.
These factors resulted in lower market prices than a year ago as you can see in the industry price graphs on Slide 6.
However the pattern of our company's order flow led to an 11% increase in realized prices.
Of course we continue to realize benefits from the low cost of natural gas in North America.
Gas prices moved up during the quarter but are still lower than the year ago a benefit that contributed to our strong Nitrogen segment gross margin.
Our Phosphate business continued to perform well as our sales volume was up year-over-year and sequentially due to domestic sales which increased as dealers and distributors geared up for a strong fall application season.
Export sales declined as shipments to Central and South America slowed during the quarter.
Our operating costs were stable during the quarter and the segment generated gross margin in line with this performance earlier in the year.
This quarter once again was characterized by excellent execution.
The effectiveness of our employees in serving customers enabled us to turn these favorable conditions into exceptional financial results for our shareholders.
We ran our combined ammonia operations at 99% of capacity and our phosphate operations at 98% of capacity.
We noted in the release that our Donaldsonville complex achieved 6 million safe work hours in the third quarter.
On October 24 the Donaldsonville team surpassed the 10-year mark without a lost time accident.
This is a complex that includes 5 ammonia plants 4 urea plants 3 nitric acid plants and 2 UAN plants plus all of the associated handling storage transportation and support services.
It's the largest nitrogen complex in North America and about to become larger.
I'd like to commend Lou Frey our Vice President and General Manager at Donaldsonville and every member of his team who has worked at the complex during the last decade.
This is a remarkable safety achievement.
Principal beneficiaries of safe operations are of course the employees themselves.
The company's management and Board of Directors are proud to recognize this milestone.
With that let me now turn the call over to Dennis for some details on our financial results.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
During the third quarter of 2012 the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $403 million or $6.35 per diluted share.
This compares to $331 million or $4.73 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
Our third quarter 2012 earnings included a non-cash mark-to-market gain and natural gas derivatives of approximately $40 million and an $11-million gain related to a change in employee post-retirement benefits.
The net impact of these 2 items was an increase of $0.50 in after-tax earnings per share.
Our Nitrogen business performed exceptionally well during the second quarter.
We delivered 3 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin of 58% which you can see on Slide 6.
The increase in segment gross margin reflects realized natural gas costs of $3.34 per MMBtu during the third quarter of 2012 as compared to $4.45 a year ago.
It also reflects the non-cash mark-to-market gain of $40 million on natural gas derivative contracts in the third quarter of 2012 as compared to a loss of $14 million in the prior year period.
At the end of the quarter we had hedged positions for approximately 60% of our expected natural gas purchases for the final quarter of 2012.
During the third quarter of 2012 we sold 416 000 tons of ammonia at an average price of $622 per ton.
Ammonia volumes for the third quarter of 2012 was 3% higher than a year ago primarily due to strong ammonia application on winter wheat as well as customers' purchases of inventory in anticipation of a strong fall application for corn.
Our average price for ammonia was 13% higher than in the third quarter of last year due to tight industry-wide inventory and strong demand.
Third quarter granular urea volume decreased by 20% year-over-year to 559 000 tons.
This decrease reflects the facts that the third quarter of 2011 had higher beginning inventory higher production volume and a higher level of export sales compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Our average price of $470 per ton was 11% higher than in the third quarter of 2011 due to the pattern of the company's order flow.
During the third quarter of 2012 we sold 1.6 million tons of UAN an average increase of about 3% from the third quarter of 2011.
Average UAN price realizations were $296 per ton a decrease of 7% due to a higher level of UAN imports during the third quarter of 2012 as compared to 2011.
As shown on Slide 7 our Phosphate segment achieved total revenue during the quarter of $264 million down about 8% from third quarter of 2011.
Total sales volume was 517 000 tons 2% percent higher than in the third quarter of 2011.
Domestic sales volume increased 36% due to U.S.
dealers and distributors replenishing inventory while export sales volumes decreased by 35% primarily due to lower sales to Central and South America.
Average phosphate selling prices declined for both DAP and MAP due to lower overall global demand.
The segment generated a 24% gross margin down from 30% a year ago due to lower average selling prices.
These quarterly results contributed to record-setting year-to-date earnings for CF Industries.
For the 9 months ended September 30 2012 the company set records across a number of financial metrics including revenues EBITDA earnings and earnings per share.
Total year-to-date revenues were $4.6 billion compared to $4.4 billion in the prior year period.
Total EBITDA for the 9-month period increased 17% to a record $2.5 billion while gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 53% from 46% driven by both higher selling prices and lower natural gas costs.
These items contributed to a 25% increase in net earnings to common stockholders to a record $1.4 billion and along with our lower share count increased earnings per diluted share by 38% to $21.19.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Dennis.
I anticipate that most of you are anxious to discuss our recent capacity expansion announcement.
But first I'd like to address our near-term outlook.
The fundamentals of our business are very attractive for the remainder of this year and going into 2013.
With an anticipated 97 million acres of corn to be planted crop nutrients especially nitrogen should be in very high demand.
We currently have an attractive order book for nitrogen.
A very strong ammonia movement began last week and we anticipate great fall movement if the weather continues to cooperate.
The ammonia market generally is very tight going into next year and we will be focused on effectively meeting the customer commitments we have in place.
We are comfortable with our order book for UAN and anticipate that demand will continue to be strong into the spring.
Conditions in the urea market are expected to remain stable as we progress through the fourth quarter.
We anticipate that continuing global demand India purchases to meet its urea needs for the year the end of a low tariff Chinese export season and production impacts from gas curtailments in other producing regions will be beneficial to the urea market in the coming months.
We will have product available and we'll be prepared to meet demand as it develops.
In the phosphate market we will move through the normal low season conditions in November and December and watch out as market develops.
We do anticipate good phosphate demand in 2013 as both domestic and international crop-planting intentions are very high requiring significant crop nutrient application.
We believe the cost advantages created by the low cost of North American natural gas should enable us to continue to earn very attractive margins as we move forward.
To provide perspective on the earnings power of our business consider that the average cash margin for a nitrogen producer in the Gulf region with urea at $400 per ton and natural gas at $3.50 per MMBtu is over 65%.
This speaks to the strength of the earnings profile of our Nitrogen business.
Now I'd like to conclude by providing you with some perspective on the capacity expansion projects we announced last week.
We are very excited to be proceeding with the major projects at Donaldsonville and Port Neal.
They are indications of the strength of our company and our belief in the sustainability of the fundamentals of the Nitrogen business in North America.
We believe that we are the best-positioned player in the industry today and that these projects will solidify that position for many years to come.
As you know our thinking has progressed from possible debottlenecks and upgrades at various facilities to the 2 much larger scale projects we have decided to build.
The evolution resulted from very detailed analysis of incremental opportunities throughout our nitrogen production network.
At the same time we were exploring those specific incremental opportunities in each of our complexes.
We were completing FEED study work we had commissioned for the larger integrated approach at our brownfield sites.
Following completion of the FEED work we concluded that the 2 integrated ammonia and upgrade projects will provide attractive economics with less risk than the incremental approach.
And we continue to retain the ability to do the debottlenecks of individual discrete projects at later dates in a sequential fashion that would minimize the associated execution risk.
As we noted in our release we believe that we will be able to bring our new production online before most if not all of our competitor's projects.
This is based upon our experience and the advanced status of design site layout infrastructure and our contracts with UDA.
We expect to file our permit applications in Louisiana this month and those in Iowa will follow close behind.
We believe that these projects will provide very attractive returns for our stockholders and that they will yield the best return/risk relationships among available investment options.
To put these projects in perspective we estimate that even at an average urea price substantially below current levels and an average natural gas cost substantially above current levels these projects will provide internal rates of return significantly above our cost of capital.
You may ask whether this announcement impacts the share repurchase program we approved in August.
We believe that our financial profile and cash flow outlook are supportive of completing both that program and these projects in the time frames we have indicated.
We are proud to be the leading producer of nitrogen fertilizers in North America and look forward to generating even more value for our owners through these major initiatives.
With that Darcella would you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to ask a little bit about the new projects and maybe to follow-up on your comment Steve about the returns profile and your cost of capital.
When we modeled out the 2 plants and did sort of a similar idea with you of higher gas prices assuming the strip during that time period and lower product prices sort of assuming a marginal cost of production at the high end of the cost curve around $9 for gas we were coming up with about 10% return profile for both plants.
Would you agree with that? Vincent I appreciate that you tried to replicate our analysis but we'd like to keep the details of our analysis to ourselves for competitive reasons.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second question would then be if we were to fast forward and assuming we're on the second quarter call in 2015 and the Donaldsonville expansion is up and running if we also assumed that the current MLP market remains as it exists today with a pretty big valuation discrepancy between CF to C corp and Terra Nitrogen Holdings the MLP where you're the general partner and the largest unitholder would you consider beginning to drop down these new projects as the MLP market would allow into that Terra Nitrogen vehicle? Well let me provide a little bit of perspective on that and I will start by certainly acknowledging that we run an MLP today.
As a general partner we own a little more than 75% of the limited partner units.
We also own 2/3 of the Medicine Hat complex which operates as a cooperative.
So we have experience running entities in addition to our C corp mothership if you will.
So now if I zoom out a little bit and I look at our total company profile we're running 13 ammonia plants at 7 sites in North America.
It's a complex network.
And if we go back to the Terra acquisition the synergy opportunity of running that as a single unit was very substantial and we worked very hard to optimize our production storage distribution and transportation network.
We think we've done a really great job in doing that.
So if I think about the prospect of for example imposing into that network legal structures at individual facilities even within individual facilities it adds a degree of complexity and frankly adds some operating complications that would make it much more difficult for us to optimize this great network that we have.
Our focus is on maximizing our ability to optimize the whole network and generate the most economic value we can find in the whole enterprise.
We really would not welcome complications related to transfer pricing.
And then I'll just add one more thought about that and that is that it would create 2 major classes of holders of our securities.
MLPs are generally held by retail investors.
And as you know CF Industries is held largely by institutions.
So having to manage the differing expectations of those 2 investor bases again would add complication to a system that frankly works really well as it is.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Steve a couple more questions on your expansions.
For some time you've been somewhat cautious on your ability to get carbon permitting for new facilities or major debottlenecks.
So just wondering what's changed there whether you made a prediction on today's election but why you think you can get the permits that you need.
And what have you done if anything to secure a source of long-term natural gas for these expansions from a pricing standpoint? Okay.
I'll respond to your second question and then ask Tony Will to response to the first one.
We have operated in the North American natural gas market our entire history.
And one of the main reasons driving this decision perhaps the main reason driving this decision is the availability of low-cost natural gas and the sustainability of that supply in the U.S.
We are comfortable operating in the spot market going forward with occasional excursions like we did this year to fix gas.
If someone were to come along and offer us the deal of a lifetime of course we'd sign up for it.
But we don't see any deals like that available to us.
But we remain open to it.
And Tony would you comment on the permitting issue? Sure.
We today obviously operate across all of our facilities with air and water permits and have a pretty constructive relationship with the regulators.
We've been working with them very closely over the past year or so doing extensive modeling.
And the plants that we are building are state-of-the-art a term of art is BACT or best-available control technology in an environmental permitting world.
And these plants are certainly best-available control technology plants.
So their the lowest emissions most efficient plants that can be built.
And so we feel comfortable based on what it is that we're designing and building and our past relationship with regulators and existing conversations that we can get the permitting done.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve you alluded to some logistics challenges related to low water levels on the Mississippi.
And in the release you discussed sending more product by truck and rail.
Did that have an appreciable impact on your financials in the quarter? And if so what was the aggregate amount of that? Good morning Kevin.
I would characterize it as being negligible and perhaps difficult to extract from our overall financials.
It really didn't move the needle.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would that be true for the Hurricane Isaac outage of 3 days at Donaldsonville as well? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very good.
And then second question if I may on natural gas.
In December of 2011 you chose to layer in some fairly significant hedges for the forward year.
Perhaps you could comment on your current disposition with regard to the gas market and whether or not you have any hedges currently in place for 2013? Okay.
I'll ask Dennis to respond to that.
Yes Kevin good morning.
With -- like we've said in the text of the speech we've got 60% of the gas that we're going to buy in the fourth quarter of this year hedged pursuant to the hedge we've put in place back at the back end of last year.
And then as we look into 2013 we don't really have very much hedged at all other than stuff that we have for -- that we may have sold on the Forward Pricing Program.
But we haven't taken on any sort of big-blanket hedges like we did at the end of -- in 2011.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Should we assume that overseas growth opportunities are off the table for now? Or do you still see yourself as having the financial flexibility to pursue additional opportunities offshore? Well Mark our focus for the next 3 years or so will be on executing the projects that we announced.
We are always open of course.
And several years ago before we had the shale gas revolution we were intent upon expanding our footprint in the direction of being offshore.
Today if you look at the global cost curve North America is the best-positioned least risky place to be.
If there's another part of the world that pops up as being essentially equally attractive of course we would be interested.
But our focus right now is on Donaldsonville and Port Neal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more question.
Would you expect to see unusually high urea imports this winter given the current prices? And do you see the system having the ability to handle a big surge in imports? Okay I'll ask Bert Frost to address that.
Bert? Well we anticipate urea imports to be consistent.
We saw a higher level in August and September level of arrivals.
And through the fourth quarter we anticipate that those -- that the market will be sending urea to the United States and we're seeing it today.
Acres are going to be high at 97 million.
You're seeing some wetness in the northern territory which is ammonia area.
And we've -- that area could move to urea pretty quickly.
So we have a high degree of demand we will need to import and that's why you're seeing us add our capacity additions focused on urea because we think we are on a good place to capture that market in future years.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Steve you increased your CapEx forecast from your previous forecast.
I mean your CapEx.
So what's your outlook on supply? And how many of these proposed nitrogen plants? I think there are 13 plants that have been proposed how many of them you think will come online? Okay.
P.J.
may I just make sure I understand your first comment.
You're talking about we've increased the amount of money were committing to our expansion projects.
Is that correct? Research Division</strong> That is correct.
Not our CapEx for 2012? That's not what you were...
Research Division</strong> No no.
That's right.
Okay.
Well my only comment on that P.J.
is that the company -- that we all operate as committed to building these 2 projects.
We are quite far down the road.
We have already begun to spend money and these projects will be built.
I don't have any way of predicting whether any one or any group of projects may materialize.
But clearly our projects are right in the heart of the marketplace.
We're building on strength.
We're clearly not the marginal -- we're clearly not marginal projects.
We are building projects that are needed in the marketplace.
How many of the other ones get built I don't know it's up to other people.
But I certainly expect some are going to fall off the list.
I couldn't tell you which ones or when.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about a robust summer fill activity.
And then some other companies are talking about that dealer inventories are quite low.
So how do I reconcile those 2 statements? Who's doing the summer refill? Is it the dealers? Is it the farmers? Bert? Well our focus is on our greater wholesale and retail segments that we supply.
And so we have constant communication with our customers that are represented by those segments.
And so those segments have been purchasing to position the products for their customers which are the farmers.
And obviously because of 2008 and the oscillations in the market certain segments are reticent to take on tremendous or even marginal risk.
And so we believe that those products that we have sold are working their way down through the value chain to the farmer.
And have seen consistent demand from our customers to serve their customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I noticed that you didn't repurchase any shares in the quarter.
Why was that? Jeff as we have said I think several times we will be reporting on share repurchases as and when we do them.
Our record on share repurchases going back to the first round in 2008 I think has been quite successful.
And we intend to continue to successfully repurchase our shares in a fashion that I think -- we hope will be recognized in retrospect as being effective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think the highest price at which you've repurchased shares has been at about $180 per share.
So is it safe to think that if your stock price remains above I don't know where it is now say $205 or $206 through the course of 2013 you wouldn't repurchase shares in 2013? Jeff we will be reporting on our share repurchases after we do them.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Korn with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the global nutrient markets overall.
It seems that over the past few months kind of been a dual track market where North American demand has been steady to good while overseas demand as you mentioned in Central and South America in particular has been somewhat lackluster.
And I just -- any commentary you can offer on why that's persisting? It seems that though prices are good global stocks are low.
I don't know if it's high residual inventory if there's more macro conversion? What's the outlook there for how that may converge or continue to show spread and demand? Bert? Well you're seeing several different factors impacting the prize of urea and it is a world product the pricing.
The United States is affected by different factors of supply and demand.
And so you referenced Central and South American demand and that demand has been consistent.
There's been some issues with Brazil and their long lines at the ports due to earlier purchases and a high volume of NPNK products that have been directed to Brazil.
And so that has pushed the arrival and some demand issues.
But we expect their second-crop corn and cotton crop to be fully fertilized which will require additional purchases.
Argentina has had some spot issues also with that -- some due to climate.
India has been -- has purchased -- as of now we've mentioned in our script that they were 9% below through the quarter but their recent tender brought them current with last year's demand.
One of the impacts has been the addition of supply.
And so China has increased -- or the amount coming out of China is higher than CF as well as the industry expectations.
And then you have additional supply out of Indonesia and other spot markets.
And there is some uncertainty in Europe on demand.
So you couple all that together product has made its way to the United States and that has impacted the NOLA price as well as the interior price.
And so when you look at -- again I would go back to the macro.
When you look at what is going on in the market and where we are on pricing we're in a stable market.
Pricing has oscillated between $400 and I would say $440 over the last several months and that's a very attractive place to be.
Referencing Steve's comment with current gas and pricing at $400 that's a 65% margin cash margin for a urea producer.
So when we look at the market I think it's positive and has a positive trajectory for the future quarters.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So it sounds as though -- really the level of demand has been fairly constant and/or steady whereas region-to-region product-to-product if you had some fluctuations in the available supply the impact where that demand actually manifests.
In other words whether they're buying from you or from [indiscernible] imports coming in? If I understand your question correctly yes additional supply has negatively impacted the market.
The demand has been fairly consistent.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jackson with BMO Capital Markets.
The CapEx for your expansions did go up from about $2 billion to about $3.8 billion.
Obviously you've added about 1 million tons of integrated ammonia with the new capacity.
Maybe you could speak about what changed in your plan to decide to make the new capacity completely integrated for ammonia? And also could you comment if the new million tons of ammonia is roughly the $1.8 billion difference in incremental CapEx? Well I think in my prepared remarks I made some general comments about the evolution of our thinking.
One aspect of this was as we looked at the debottleneck opportunities available to us in ammonia and we were looking at debottlenecking of a large number of plants and added up the amount of ammonia and we compared that with the amount of upgrade product that we were seeking to produce that we were actually reducing our free ammonia supply.
And so that's when we began to think that significantly more ammonia production was required to get us to the outcome that we wanted.
And I think it's also important for you to note that in addition to having more ammonia production we've added 1.3 million tons of urea to the mix here.
So we're getting a substantially big bang for the additional bucks we're spending.
Okay.
Just following up on that I assume that you're giving the guidance in some of your comments today that maintenance CapEx right now is about $350 million to $400 million for the company.
Could you also give us an -- and just please comment on that? And could you also give us an idea of once the new capacity is online maybe where maintenance CapEx could be around? Well I think your introductory comment is fair $350 million to $400 million is a reasonable steady-state estimate for today.
I can't project what our maintenance capital will be in 2016.
It'll be -- I guess I would say it'll be modestly higher.
Tony you want to add to that? Yes.
I would say you'll see probably more impact from inflationary factors than you'd do from the fact that we've got a couple of additional operating units that go through turnarounds periodically.
But I wouldn't expect absent changes in inflation for it to be radically outside the range of $350 million to $400 million that we're in today.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Picken with Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to talk a little bit about sort of the forward purchase program.
And it seems like you're further ahead on UAN and some of the other products.
And I was just wondering kind of -- if that was something that you think was more your customer's choice or just what you guys sort of made available to the customers? On our specific product -- our forward sold position I would say we're adequately sold.
We're pleased with our forward sold book.
Each of the product has a different profile.
And you mentioned UAN and we're pleased with where we are with UAN.
We're active in the market everyday and selling products and still have a remaining position to sell.
Okay.
Great.
I guess sort of phrased differently -- I mean -- I guess does it reflect the fact that you're maybe further ahead at least on UAN? Does that sort of reflect maybe that you're -- or you and the dealers have more of the same expectations of kind of where that market is headed versus let's say ammonia prices which have been particularly strong over the last couple of months? I would take it more from an end perspective because of the high acres expected to be planted in corn and the need to get nitrogen every year to the ground.
When we did our fall sell or fall filling period for UAN it started around the end of June and continued through July.
I would say all of our customers took positions that they are comfortable with.
Parallel to that we also were selling ammonia for the fall application period which is where we are today.
And as we mentioned earlier on our previous call urea has been coming in and our customers have been purchasing that also.
So I would say that they all have been -- our customers have been active in all 3 nitrogen products.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Neivert with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
One you guys said the ammonia applications in the beginning and the way things look it should be a good year weather permitting.
So far is weather cooperating? Or are we not getting the cooperation we'd like to see at this point? I know we have time but...
Go ahead Bert.
Well I would say when you look at the weather map today it's been ideal.
We received the moisture in late August through September and early October where some of the areas that were severely impacted by the drought are actually on a soil-moisture basis doing very well.
There are some areas that have received excess moisture in the form of rain and now snow and that would be in North Dakota.
But you have to look at the total picture with harvest coming off in places 4 weeks early which allowed for adequate soil preparation or ground preparation.
And the P and the Ks went down and now they're putting down ammonia.
So it's going well.
And weather permitting we anticipate we will have a normal ammonia application season.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other -- you said that a number of things that impacted ammonia prices to the upside earlier with outages and things of that nature.
For the most part are those back online now? Or are we still seeing the same or similar outages? Or where do we stand? And in conjunction with that how about the nitrogen startups that were supposed to be coming through in -- I guess it was Algeria and the Middle East? Qatar I believe.
Yes.
What you're referencing on ammonia that's a world that's driven by producers outside of the United States.
And Trinidad has been suffering through a shortage of gas.
It's hit all the producers you have as well as that -- announced over the last several weeks cutbacks in Egypt on gas supply.
And we've had a high level of operating rates for the phosphate producers so demand has been very positive.
The supply and demand impacted together has driven prices up over the $700 metric ton Tampa.
So that's very -- that has also driven the United States in terms of what is available on ammonia.
Your second question on startups the COFCO plants are running.
We are not anticipating -- we are following the sulfured urea or non-export of product out of the sulfur plants.
And they are -- we don't -- we're not exactly sure when they will begin exporting products.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So COFCO is back in the market all 6 -- 5 6 operations they've got.
And you're just waiting for the Algerians.
Again Algeria was a combination of ammonia urea but it's going out as urea.
Is that the case there? I am not sure.
And regarding COFCO yes it's our assumption that all 6 are operating.
Your next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez with Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> Steve quick question.
I mean you have committed significant capital over the next 3 years between Medicine Hat share repurchase and the expansion projects.
Can you talk about how you plan on funding for all those projects? I mean is it going to be from cash flow? Or you're going to have to take debt and so forth? Good morning Edlain.
Yes so I'll do the math for everybody.
We have $3 billion under the share repurchase program to almost $1 billion for the 1/3 of Medicine Hat to $3.8 billion.
To the expansion projects I think the total comes at $7.7 billion which is a lot of money.
On the other hand the cash flow profile of this company is very robust and our balance sheet is in excellent shape.
But we don't know obviously the pattern of our cash flow on the inflow side over the next several years but we continue -- we think it will continue to be very strong.
We'll be mapping out our cash outflows looking at the capital projects and our own internal assumptions about share repurchase et cetera.
It is possible that in order to make this all fit together that we would access the capital markets.
And if we do so we would do -- we will be doing so from strength.
And we have an investment-grade credit rating today.
We intend to maintain the metrics that are consistent with an investment-grade rating.
And we feel quite confident that we can do that.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Cox with Piper.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the wheat crop.
Given some of the dry conditions do you expect any impact for winter wheat nitrogen demand? Winter wheat is -- the soil or the ground preparation takes place in August and September with the application of ammonia ending around the beginning of October.
So that season has already passed.
Yes it has been dry.
Some of those farmers plant wheat without fertilizer because as the crop emerges then it goes dormant and then you can apply again in February.
And so what we have seen out of the wheat region is positive consumption and we anticipate a robust application season probably starting in January February when the wheat crop emerges from dormancy.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just quickly on the urea market.
Given though the softness we've seen in pricing there and the likely drop off in export activity have you held back in any forward sales of urea to account for that? Well softness is depending on what side you're sitting on.
Again if $400 is where we are today historically that's a very -- it's a good number and we're pleased with that and pleased with our performance in the market.
And so yes you do see oscillations that are driven by supply and demand and I do think that we will receive additional imports from various exporting countries to the United States.
However we do believe that inventories are low throughout the world whether that be South America or Europe.
And we see a positive market going forward for urea no matter if these additional plants come online or not.
You have China that will be ceasing their export window or has -- the export window has closed and what remains in the bonded warehouse will be exported.
But we think come January that market should -- the urea market around the world should be positive.
I'd like to add a more general comment about this urea market.
We are now seeing for the last 1.5 years or so urea prices in a range from let's say $350 or $400 up to as high as $700.
And if we live in that world of urea prices going forward our shareholders should be very happy with our investment decisions.
That's a great place for the urea market to oscillate between.
And your next question comes from the line of Paul Massoud.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's Paul Massoud from Stifel.
Yes I just -- I had a question on the nitrogen price.
I mean given where pricing has gone for the different products have you seen any pushback from dealers with respect to where ammonia prices have gone? For example -- and potentially so can you talk about the potential for substitution between the different products? Well just a general comment about nitrogen prices and fertilizer prices.
Traditionally the cost of fertilizer takes about 19% of the farmer's revenue dollar.
But today we are in the range of 15% 16%.
So prices -- the price of fertilizer is not a problem for farmer economics even though of course farmers will complain about the prices of inputs no matter how much money they are making.
That's just what it's like being a farmer.
With respect to individual products even at today's price level ammonia is still the best value per unit of nitrogen.
That's why farmers who have experience applying ammonia and who are comfortable continuing to apply it will almost always choose ammonia if field conditions allow them to do so.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Swenson for closing remarks.
Thank you Darcella.
We like to thank everyone who participated on the call today.
If you need more information about CF Industries or our results please feel welcome to contact me.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tony and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
With me today are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales and Market Development; and Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its fourth quarter 2012 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company LP.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
During this call and in the associated slides and our earnings press release we make reference to certain adjusted or as-adjusted financial results.
These adjustments relate to the modification of the selling price methodology used for products sold by Canadian Fertilizers Limited or CFL which was made -- refer to the selling methodologies for products sold by Canadian Fertilizers Limited.
Modification was made in connection with CF Industries' pending acquisition of the outstanding interest in CFL.
This modification impacts the comparability of the financial results between 2011 and the 2012 periods.
To facilitate period-to-period comparisons of the company's underlying operating performance we are presenting a certain financial information on an adjusted basis as if the modified selling price calculation methodology had been in effect on January 1 2011.
Please refer to the exhibits and reconciliation in the press release or on Slides 12 to 14 of the presentation accompanying this call.
These adjustments impacted revenue and gross profit but did not affect CF Industries' economics its earnings or its earnings per share.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor statement included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties.
Do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
Last year during our fourth quarter earnings call I stated that we expected 2012 to be a great year and it was.
Looking at just about any metric whether operational financial or strategic we generated exceptional results.
We set full year records for sales volume revenue EBITDA earnings and earnings per share.
Using the flexibility of our production and distribution system our employees made sure that our products were in the right place at the right time to meet our customer commitments.
In meeting those commitments we generated great results for shareholders.
Despite a heavier-than-average turnaround schedule that reduced our available production volume we shipped record full year volume of 15 million tons in 2012.
This record reflects the ingenuity and skill of our team who did a terrific job of managing our inventory.
Capitalizing on the inherent advantages of our ammonia distribution system and the hard work of our team we set a full year ammonia delivery record.
Attractive nitrogen economics helped us obtain several financial records for the year.
These included full year revenues of $6.1 billion EBITDA of $3.3 billion net earnings of $1.8 billion and earnings per share of $28.59.
We also generated record operating cash flow of $2.4 billion.
We returned a significant portion of that cash to our shareholders in the second quarter by completing the $1.5 billion share repurchase program we put in place in August 2011.
We bought a total of 9.6 million shares under this program at an average price of $156.80 per share and completed it in less than one year.
Cash generation capacity of our business gave us the confidence to make the bold strategic commitments we announced last year.
First we entered into an agreement to purchase the remaining 34% interest in CFL the entity that holds our Medicine Hat Alberta Nitrogen Complex for approximately CAD 900 million and we're working our way through the regulatory approval process as we speak.
And our board authorized a new $3 billion share repurchase program which extends through December 31 2016.
While we didn't repurchase any shares under the program during 2012 our track record of past execution of share repurchases support our commitment to this program.
And finally we announced and are moving forward with $3.8 billion of capacity expansion projects in Louisiana and Iowa which upon completion will increase our marketable nitrogen volume by more than 25% to 8.5 million nutrient tons by 2016.
These actions are grounded in disciplined and rigorous analysis and represent smart choices that we believe will contribute to long-term shareholder value.
Yesterday afternoon we announced our fourth quarter 2012 financial results including record fourth quarter earnings of $471 million and EPS of $7.40 on total revenues of $1.5 billion.
Our Nitrogen segment generated very strong results last quarter with adjusted gross margin at $750 million on adjusted sales of $1.4 billion.
Sales volume of 3.3 million tons was a result of healthy demand for all nitrogen products especially ammonia and adjusted gross margin increased from last year reflecting the benefit of low natural gas cost.
During the fourth quarter we experienced strong ammonia demand across Iowa Illinois and Indiana as weather alleviated moisture concerns there and the dry conditions in Nebraska and Kansas did not have as much impact as expected.
We dealt effectively with logistical challenges created by low water levels on the inland river system by capitalizing on our end market production points and our access to ammonia pipelines river transportation and several rail systems.
In doing so we achieved quarterly delivery records at 6 of our 21 ammonia terminals.
We had low ammonia inventory levels throughout the quarter even hitting an all-time low since the combination of CF Industries and Terra.
And our low year-end ammonia inventory position reflected tight industry-wide supply strong fall demand and gas curtailments that have impacted some offshore producers.
Our adjusted average ammonia selling price was $640 per ton 5% higher than a year ago.
Seasonal slowness characterized the fall urea market although high Chinese export volumes weighed on global urea prices.
We saw high-cost offshore producers again demonstrate rational economic behavior in response to these prices.
When prices reached what we believe are those producers' breakeven points they shut down plants and took turnarounds which helped balance the market.
While our urea volumes increased slightly our urea prices did decline to an average of $401 on an adjusted basis.
But as we've communicated before this is a price at which we still earn a very attractive margin.
UAN demand was very strong in the fourth quarter of 2011 which created a tough year-over-year comparison for us this past year.
While our UAN prices and volume were lower in this year's fourth quarter they were still at levels that reflect healthy demand.
And I'm pleased with the way our UAN team performed this year as they have positioned us very well for what we believe will be a strong 2013.
The low price of natural gas enabled us to capitalize on our strong revenue performance to deliver another quarter of great earnings.
Thanks to the decline in our gas costs our Nitrogen segment's adjusted gross margin increased from $742 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 to $750 million in 2012.
The decline in natural gas costs attributed to the rapid growth in shale production has led to the advantaged cost position of North American nitrogen manufacturers and has sparked a renaissance in North American industrial activity.
Our Phosphate business generated fourth quarter gross profit of $36 million on sales of $256 million.
Gross profit and sales were down from a year ago as the international phosphate market was weaker during this year's fourth quarter due to limited buying activity in South America and India.
Adding to market weakness was a higher level of supply as phosphate producers operated at higher rates.
While these factors contributed to a weaker pricing environment we did see strong North American sales volume as farmers applied nutrients in preparation for the high number of acres expected to be planted in 2013 as I'll discuss later.
We're delighted with the successes we realized and the results we generated during 2012.
Record financial results exceptional operating performance and a tightly focused capital allocation strategy supported strong CF Industries stock price performance in 2012.
Dennis will now walk through more specifics of our financial results and then I'll provide my thoughts on how we're positioned to make 2013 another successful year.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
For the full year 2012 CF Industries had net earnings of $1.8 billion on sales of $6.1 billion.
Fully diluted earnings per share of $28.59 included noncash mark-to-market gains on natural gas and foreign currency derivatives accelerated amortization of capitalized financing fees related to the termination of the company's prior credit facility and a gain from a reduction in employee postretirement benefits.
Together these items increased earnings per share by $0.67 for the year.
EBITDA for 2012 was $3.3 billion.
Our fourth quarter net income of $471 million or $7.40 per share included mark-to-market gains of $13.1 million before taxes or $0.13 per share after tax.
Our fully diluted earnings per share was a fourth quarter record as illustrated by the red boxed bars on Slide 5.
As Steve noted our Nitrogen business performed very well in the fourth quarter.
Slide 7 shows that we had adjusted nitrogen sales of $1.4 billion down from the fourth quarter of 2011 on volume that was about 2% lower.
Segment adjusted gross margin of $750 million was 55% of sales 3 percentage points higher than in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to lower natural gas costs.
Our average adjusted ammonia price per ton was up 5% year-over-year.
Our average as-adjusted urea price per ton was down 6% and our average UAN price per ton was down 13%.
The Nitrogen segment had sales volume of 3.3 million tons in the fourth quarter.
Declines in UAN and AN were offset partially by increases in ammonia and urea.
Ammonia sales volume was up due to strong demand and favorable weather conditions and urea volume increased slightly over last year.
UAN volume was down due to plant turnaround activities and the decision to shift production mix to increase higher-margin ammonia sales.
And volume was down due to plant turnaround activities.
For the full year the Nitrogen segment had gross margin of $2.9 billion compared to an adjusted $2.4 billion in the prior year.
As a percent of sales gross margin increased to 57% in 2012 from an adjusted 50% in 2011.
The Phosphate business had fourth quarter 2012 revenues of $256 million which was essentially unchanged from last year.
Sales volume of 509 000 tons increased 16% from 2011 which was offset partially by a 14% decline in the combined average selling price per DAP and MAP.
Domestic sales comprised 72% of our phosphate sales volume in the quarter.
Phosphate segment gross margin was $36 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $79 million in 2011.
The decline in margin was due to lower selling prices and higher phosphate production costs.
For the full year the Phosphate segment generated $200 million of gross margin on sales of $1 billion compared to $332 million of gross margin on sales of $1.1 billion in 2011.
The decline in gross margin and revenues was due primarily to lower average selling prices in 2012.
We continue to have a very strong balance sheet.
With $2.3 billion of cash as of December 31 2012 total debt-to-EBITDA of less than 0.5x and investment-grade credit ratings we have ample liquidity and the ability to access the debt capital markets if needed to finance our strategic capital allocation priorities.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Dennis.
As we move further into 2013 global agricultural market's nitrogen supply and demand dynamics and natural gas prices continue to provide reasons for us to be optimistic.
Crop economics around the world support our expectations for a great 2013.
Tight stocks-to-use ratios and the resulting high crop prices especially for corn are expected to cause farmers across North America Europe Ukraine and China to plant large acreage to grains.
These planting expectations are driving strong global demand for nitrogen fertilizers.
We expect the U.S.
farmers to plant 97 million acres of corn.
This should result in strong domestic demand for nitrogen in all its forms.
We saw that demand reflected in ammonia shipments this past fall and demand this spring should continue to support ammonia pricing.
The Midwest ammonia market is expected to remain tight for the immediate future as inventories remain low.
Several factors are contributing to tight conditions in the UAN market.
Overall northern hemisphere demand for UAN is expected to be robust.
Strong nitrates demand in Europe is limiting the flow of UAN exports to North America.
Domestic production has been lower than in recent years due to turnaround activity and unplanned outages.
Additionally the startup of 2 expansion projects from which buyers were expecting to obtain UAN have been delayed.
Limited imports lower production rates and low inventories lead us to believe that the North American market for UAN will be tight during the first half of 2013.
As spring urea demand emerges we expect to see favorable pricing conditions develop especially as we move into the second quarter.
Domestic production was off about 15% this fall and despite higher imports inventories are below year-ago levels.
The tight supply of ammonia and UAN also suggests a strengthening in the domestic urea market as we move through spring.
Overall the global nitrogen market is expected to be in a balanced to tight position through the first half of 2013 given strong demand and limited supply due to the delays in new capacity coming online and gas curtailments impacting nitrogen production in several countries.
Although the phosphate market has been seasonally weak this winter we expect it to improve as the spring demand picks up in North America and as India works through its current phosphate inventories and returns to the market.
Additionally a continuation of high soybean prices should support a large planting in South America and create additional phosphate demand later in the first half of the year.
We realize a significant and sustainable advantage as a consumer of North American natural gas.
Natural gas availability is far from assured in many regions of the world as we've seen gas curtailments impact several offshore nitrogen producers.
We have hedged about 90% of the gas needed for our anticipated nitrogen production needs through April and most of those hedges are call options that have our cost capped at well below $4 per MMBtu.
The U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers has been very responsive and active in keeping the Mississippi River open for barge traffic.
We appreciate their attention to this critical national resource.
However we have taken steps to be prepared if system conditions deteriorate again.
We've analyzed various scenarios and positioned our rail fleet to be able to respond to changing logistical conditions.
No other producer or importer has the optionality that we have including in-market plant locations multiple storage sites and access to transportation including rail truck barge and pipelines.
Our customers recognize our dependability and we will continue to earn their trust by delivering our products on time where they are needed.
We're off to a fast start on our capacity expansion projects.
I'm pleased to report that we have applied for our air permits in both Louisiana and Iowa.
And as of February 15 a total of $480 million has been spent on or committed to these 2 projects.
For all of 2013 we expect to invest between $1 billion and $1.3 billion on capital expenditures for these projects in addition to the $450 million we expect to spend on normal maintenance and existing plant investments.
We'll provide updates on these projects as we reach other key milestones.
We have a well-established track record of achieving our strategic objectives and I believe that track record has been a key driver of the value we've been able to create for shareholders.
We are confident in the strength of our business model and look forward to continuing to invest in the business in the years to come in order to create even more value for our shareholders.
With that we'll now open the line to answer your questions.
Tony would you help us with that please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Steve a question on capital allocation.
I know you've stated in the past that you don't want to go to the MLP route or even expand the Terra Nitrogen partnership by adding a plant or 2.
But I noticed that many of your peers have moved away from the former 1% yield cap that appeared to exist in the fertilizer sector and yet many of them have significant capital expenditure plans as well.
So I guess with nitrogen having probably the best outlook of the 3 nutrients any plans to move your dividend yield on a recurring basis beyond the 76 basis points? And how do you think of the ongoing dividend yield in terms of return of capital to shareholders? Well we look at our capital structure on a regular basis and we do it systematically in discussions with our board at least annually.
And I'm frankly very proud of our track record in this regard.
We've bought a total of $2 billion worth of our stock back in a couple of programs.
We have I think once quintupled our dividend and again quadrupled it.
But frankly I think a nitrogen fertilizer stock is never going to be a yield stock.
We came to the conclusion last summer that -- and some of those results from talking to shareholders that buying shares back is the best way for us to return cash to shareholders.
We have a $3 billion program in place and we're very comfortable to have that in place and we look forward to future reports on progress against that.
LLLP Research Division</strong> One follow-up Steve and that's on -- just how you see the spring unfolding.
We've got an ongoing drought here.
Do you think that causes a shift from ammonia application to UAN? Is that one of the reasons why you're so positive on the UAN outlook this spring? Bert would you handle that one please? Sure.
Regarding the drought it's correct.
There has been a shortage of moisture throughout the Midwest.
But if you look at the average moisture from February through April that we should be receiving the one state that would be negative on a percent of normal precipitation would be Nebraska at about 120% to 130% needed to get back to normal.
The other states the I states Indiana Illinois Ohio not an I state but are actually net positive.
Iowa Minnesota Kansas need about 80% of normal to get back to a sustainable moisture basis.
So when you look at that situation across the board it's fairly positive Nebraska being a pivot state so we think that will go well towards ammonia.
But your second point on UAN that is why we're positive.
Because with inventory levels being low demand being high the net fallback to UAN should be very positive.
But inventories are low for all products except for the importation of urea and so we believe the fallback product for N will be urea and we need the imports that have come in to date.
So for that reason we're net positive all the end products.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Steve could you talk a little bit about sort of the forward order books to the extent that you're comfortable with that? I guess what I'm asking is just at this time last year you mentioned that because of the sort of turmoil in the fourth quarter you guys have sort of actively chosen to sell a lot less forward than normal.
Can you give us a sense of where we are at least relative to last year and then any other general comment you can make about it? Bert? Yes relative to last year I think we're in a solid position on all the end products.
And the previous question UAN is high-demand and for the reasons we articulated earlier in the call the pricing will be positive through June for this current crop year.
And our order book is -- we're pleased with where we are.
We see demand for each of the products some regionally greater than others but we are positioning our products today to achieve similar or greater levels of demand through June.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve a question on your pending projects at Donaldsonville and Port Neal.
I was wondering if you can give us a sense for the mileposts coming up in future quarters? I think you mentioned you had applied for air permits.
Perhaps you could shed some light on how long that might take and when we might break ground and what the capital budgets are looking like in terms of E&amp;C cost trends and that sort of thing for each of your key projects here? Well we're very pleased with where we are.
We have great momentum.
We have 2 good teams put together.
We have actually a team that's living in Germany to make sure that we get all the engineering stuff done right.
We have filed for the 2 air permits.
Those are very important gating items that are really necessary before we can start major construction activity.
We're hopeful that we will be able to begin to move dirt and drive pile sometime this summer.
But certainly we don't control both ends of that process.
We only control the submission and then the response to questions that comes along with that.
With respect to the situation on equipment orders and so forth I'll have Tony go through just a snapshot of what sorts of things are on order.
Yes.
So we've ordered the rotating equipment and most of the high-pressure equipment for the both ammonia plants both urea plants and the nitric acid plant.
I think we've spent as Steve mentioned about $480 million all told thus far.
Spending and committed.
Spending and committed.
And we're expecting to spend somewhere in the range of about $1 billion to $1.3 billion in total through the balance of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up question you referred Steve in your prepared remarks to some of the curtailments of natural gas supply that are occurring in other markets.
And I was wondering if you could give us an update on your thoughts there and how things have changed in Egypt and how long we might likely see curtailments in Trinidad impacts on the supply side of the global equation.
Well in terms of what's going on in North Africa I think probably everybody on the call has equal knowledge.
There's turmoil and disruptions caused by political issues and some physical issues and they don't seem to have been resolved.
There's an ongoing issue in Pakistan with limitations on gas supply.
With respect to Trinidad there've been comments made by the national gas company that they have solved their supply problem and will be back to what used to be normal.
We have to wait and see whether that's actually going to happen.
With respect to our own situation while we like our Trinidad operation and it's a significant supply source the most significant supply source for our phosphate operation all of this makes us increasingly comfortable with our North American footprint the number of locations that we have and the decisions that we've made to expand production in North America.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When do you expect the CFL acquisition to close and what are the remaining impediments? Okay Jeff if we go back to when we made the announcement I think we listed a few major mileposts and we've passed maybe 1 or 2 of those.
The first one was Glencore getting regulatory approval to close on their purchase of Viterra and they were waiting for the Chinese to give the go ahead.
They got that go ahead.
And then the second item was the closing of that transaction.
That occurred in mid-December.
So while we had done our filings with the regulators in Canada realistically they were waiting for that precedent transaction to be completed.
And now that it's been completed they're focused on our filing with the Competition Bureau and the Investment Canada Organization.
We have a good dialogue with them between our representatives and their representatives and we're hopeful that we can get the clearance in the near future.
But again this is a situation of which we only can control one side.
We are prepared to close expeditiously once we get that go ahead and we certainly look forward to having all of CFL in our portfolio.
It will simplify our operation and -- not just from the operating standpoint but also from the governance standpoint.
Research Division</strong> If I may follow up are there any key dates where the governmental agencies are required to inform you of a decision of theirs by a particular time or are there any key dates for your own filings? Well I understand the question and I think I'm not a lawyer but I believe technically there are dates but practically they end up being extended in a way by mutual agreement of the parties because it's certainly in our interest to have a favorable outcome as opposed to meet or force them to comply with an arbitrary deadline.
But we're in constant conversations and we're hopeful we'll get results soon.
But there is no specific deadline looming for this.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Picken of Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to touch base a little bit on kind of your outlook for some of the other parts of the U.S.
and specifically kind of the Southern Plains Texas Oklahoma area.
I mean how big of a market is that for you guys if the drought in that area persists understanding that they did get a little bit of rain recently? Bert? Texas and Oklahoma for corn represent roughly 3% of the United States corn but a significant percentage of wheat and cotton.
That market -- those markets starting in Southern Texas have already started with planting and so we expect urea and UAN to be going down soon.
They had a very favorable fall.
The wheat dormancy should be coming out -- or coming out of dormancy soon let's say March and so you'll see a top-dress application starting in late February to March.
Generally as the Southwest goes then it progresses up through the Midwest on applications.
We're anticipating a favorable application season due to what you just said is the moisture level that has been received.
But coupled with that is the Southeast which had higher levels of cotton and peanuts last year which we anticipate moving more to corn so being an additional demand on N early in the season which should be positive for the United States.
Okay great.
And as a follow-up I just wanted to kind of ask I mean are those markets material at all for phosphate? And my understanding is they're heavier in nitrogen than phosphate.
For us we're seeing -- focusing on nitrogen.
Yes we are seeing them be positive for CF.
The movement of product to those directions which are not traditional markets for CF have been greater than in the past.
For that reason you've seen us ramp up our usage of our tanks on the East Coast as well as staffing in that area.
For phosphates we traditionally supply products in that area on an FOB basis but we ship more out by rail and barge to the Midwest.
There are other suppliers that are situated better to serve the phosphate market on the East Coast.
The P market in general we've had a lot of questions on that.
We see that moving in the positive direction.
We're seeing that already take place with pricing in NOLA.
But the international markets as the South American market takes off we anticipate that to come early due to logistical constraints they experienced in 2012 and the need to replace the stocks that have been depleted.
That market will probably kick off earlier.
And then obviously India with the negotiations that go on with the other market leaders we anticipate that also to be a positive market.
Your next call comes from the line of Matthew Korn from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask what the main factor was driving the increase in costs on the Phosphate division over the quarter whether there was a jump in cost to Hardee or anything else and whether that's going to normalize more going forward.
Well it's largely driven by increase in ammonia price -- ammonia costs.
Gulf ammonia as you know has been high-priced.
It's come down some since the fourth quarter but that was the main driver of that cost increase.
And as far as the predictability of that who knows? Overall we love high ammonia prices because we sell a lot of ammonia.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just following up there do you have any significant natural gas hedges beyond April this year? As of the end of the year we had a -- go ahead.
At the end of the year we had just like Steve said in the text we had 90% of our gas usage covered with hedges through the end of April.
As we look out beyond April we have very very tiny amount of swaps so essentially in no material sense do we -- the answer is essentially no.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Steve you talked about good expectations for urea in the first half of the year.
Can you just go one step further? And I know it's quite far out there but just talk about how you see the supply-demand dynamic playing out in the back half of the year specifically with respect to new capacity in the Middle East as well as with Chinese exports.
Well I think if you went back and you looked at our results releases for the fourth quarter probably in every year since we've been public we are loathe to comment on the second half of any upcoming year.
And the reason for that is that we haven't even started the spring yet.
We don't know what the weather patterns are going to be.
We don't know which products are going to be in demand.
And most importantly we don't have a good way of projecting what the end of the season inventories will be product by product by product.
So the second half of the year is driven in large part by what the inventory positions are coming out of the planting season and of course the expectations going forward.
And so the quality of the crop that's in the ground the projected yield the economics for farmers for 2014 all of those things have impacts on the second half of the year.
And we have a tough enough time trying to figure out what's going to happen in the next 4 or 5 months as opposed to the next 10 to 12 months.
With respect to capacity coming on in other parts of the world 2012 I think was a good demonstration of how difficult it is to bring on new capacity certainly in some parts of the world.
A number of projects that were penciled in by industry observers as coming on in 2012 were deferred into 2013.
There's obviously a high likelihood that those projects will be completed.
But I think then you have to look at what's the probability is of originally scheduled 2013 startups actually occurring in 2013 or whether some of those projects get deferred into 2014.
Overall looking at the last several years I think that the market has demonstrated quite a good capacity for absorbing the output of these new projects.
The market has stayed in pretty good shape overall despite the ups and downs in Chinese exports despite the lumpiness of new capacity coming on.
And we're very pleased with the long-term outlook and that's why we're making the investments that we're making.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Steve I wonder if we could switch to MAP and DAP.
It looks to me like your inventory levels might be low relative to the industry.
I'm not sure if that's right.
Just curious how you think the U.S.
MAP and DAP is shaping up for the spring.
And if India doesn't get its act together what would you see as the domestic market outlook assuming that we don't see the export market come back very quickly? Bert? We maintained a low inventory level throughout 2012 and most likely we'll continue to do so marketing our product on a regular basis.
Regarding India India has been a big consumer of world phosphate and their moderating levels of subsidy support what that will be this year is still unclear.
But we expect that to be settled sooner rather than later due to the fact that they just need to get product moving on a regular basis both -- I'd say all 3 products N P and K.
And so the phosphate market as I said earlier should continue to improve over time because of the dynamics of South America India as well as improving agricultural dynamics in the former Soviet Union.
And I think for the United States market the reason why you're seeing us be successful and continue to market on a regular basis is the lack of consignment on CF's position.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew O'Conor of BMO Asset Management.
With the amount of CapEx planned to be spent on expansion in 2013 $1 billion to $1.3 billion what percent of project completion do you guys expect by year-end 2013 for Donaldsonville and Port Neal? Well we spent about $120 million in 2012.
You add that to the $1 billion to $1.3 billion and subtract the sum from $3.8 billion and that's what you get for what's left.
Now it looks like -- I haven't done the math.
It looks like 35% 40% something like that.
Okay.
And then Steve would you say that the capital expenditures are being spent any faster than was originally envisioned or that somehow some monies originally intended to be spent in 2014 are now being spent this year 2013? We're on a very aggressive timetable.
We want to bring these projects online as quickly as we can.
So the extent to which we find equipment pricing that we like we lock it up we'll put money down.
The extent to which we can get other parts of this project tied down we will be -- we're not looking to spend money fast just to spend it fast but we want the commitments in place we want the timetable to be assured and we want our costs to be under control.
So we're being prudently aggressive put it that way.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
A couple of questions.
There's been a lot of debates recently about residual nitrogen levels in the soil but I've also heard a lot anecdotal evidence a lot of anecdotal data points to say that a lot of farmers more on the northern side in the states are going to actually increase usage rates.
Maybe you can talk about that part of the discussion please? Bert? Regarding the residual nitrogen we just don't see that.
We anticipate full utilization of nitrogen in 2013 and beyond.
And then in the northern tier that is taking place so we see that almost done on an annual basis the continued demand increase in North Dakota.
As you look at the heat map for corn and where corn has gone over the last 20 years and taken over wheat area you're just having a net increase one because of crop change but two because of yield potential in these areas and the change in seed technology has necessitated an increase in nitrogen.
That being said we're very positive on the northern territory as well as Canada going into 2013 due to the lack of applications that took place in the fall of 2012.
So that will be a net pick-up for us in the spring.
So we're encouraged by the total demand as well as the forward demand for nitrogen in the northern tier.
Okay.
Finally maybe I'll go a bit to the left field which is obviously your KEYTRADE investments.
And Dennis and Steve you're on KEYTRADE board.
KEYTRADE announced something earlier this week with the polyhalite junior developments in England Sirius Minerals signing an MOU if that company can raise $1 billion to build that mine.
I wanted to -- maybe if you can talk about the opportunity in polyhalite.
Is this just a risk-free MOU? And have you had some experience with ICL which is mining a bit of polyhalite right now on a trial basis out of a mine existing mine right near there that led you to have some confidence in this? Bert? Yes we're very excited about what is taking place with KEYTRADE.
There's a number of initiatives that they are participating in.
They're net positive to KEYTRADE as well as to CF.
It gives us a viewpoint into the different markets different products different relationships and so you can see the leverage ability that we have with KEYTRADE.
Not only is it a great relationship within the company but they have tremendous relationships in the world and this is just an example of that that they would be viewed as a trusted marketer of products to many different companies.
Regarding that product we have met with the company just like we've met with many different companies on opportunities for investments and new mines or new production assets around the world and through that relationship pass it on to our friends at KEYTRADE.
And so it is another opportunity for specific fertilizer products? That's what they're investigating.
They're spending the time and the resources to develop new markets.
It does have a K component as well as an S component and some trace elements that are net positive to many different markets around the world.
But it's more of a specialty product than a bulk product that will be utilized worldwide.
Has KEYTRADE been selling some of the polyhalite or using it some of it through ICL's existing operation? At this point KEYTRADE is beginning a relationship with the Sirius people.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Parkinson of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just very quickly you mentioned domestic nitrogen demand in the Ukraine several times in your release.
Can you just comment on any potential effects this may have on the global market particularly if exports in North Africa continue to have issues? Well what we're seeing is an increase in AN which is having a positive impact on the producers of UAN AN and urea in that market.
And so as you see a progression and a growth and a maturing of the Ukrainian agricultural market you're seeing a parallel increase in demand in fertilizer.
We see this as a net benefit to the market and that has been translated into a decrease in UAN supply to the United States.
Relative to AN for North Africa you do see a greater degree of ammonium nitrate used in Northern Africa for fertilizer as well as for production of phosphate or N-P-K products.
And so those are both benefits.
As that demand increases that consumes the supply out of that region.
Research Division</strong> And just a real quick follow-up.
You touched on this a little bit but can you just run through what you've seen in the phosphate market particularly in the Americas over the last few weeks and if you see any positive developments there? Yes in the Americas Brazil has just coming out of their Carnival holiday season and they're in the heat of the harvest of soybeans and planting the second-crop corn.
Argentina is also beginning their harvest process.
So the focus now is on that.
That being said they've had a draining or a decreasing of inventory for all products and we think they will reposition earlier than normal because of the logistical constraints that they experienced this year with the merged cost being higher than the probably net profitability per ton.
And it's also being expressed right now in the difficult to export their agricultural products that are processed or harvested.
And so we see South America specifically Brazil and Argentina anticipating their purchases and then Mexico South America and that region continuing on a normal basis.
Tony we're going to end our Q&amp;A with that question and at this point in time I'm going to hand the call over to Steve Wilson to make some closing remarks.
Thanks Dan.
I just like to put the last 2 years into a bit of perspective.
2011 and 2012 put together we had revenues of $12.2 billion.
And on that $12.2 billion we earned EBITDA of $6.3 billion.
That's to me a testament of the earnings power of this company.
Certainly the 2012 experience begins to build evidence for the sustainability of our business model.
The shale gas revolution has obviously provided us with a cost profile that is extremely competitive on the world stage.
So we are very comfortable with our strategic position.
We're very comfortable with the investments that we're making and we're comfortable with our whole capital deployment strategy.
It's a great time to be in the nitrogen business and it's an even greater time to be CF Industries.
So thanks to all of you again for participating on the call.
If there's anything more you'd like to learn about the company Dan's open for business.
Thanks.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great week.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Rachel and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales and Market Development; and Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its first quarter 2013 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
During this call and in the associated slides and our earnings press release we make reference to certain adjusted or as adjusted financial results.
These adjustments relate to the modification to the selling price methodology used for products sold by Canadian Fertilizers Limited or CFL.
This modification impacts the comparability of the financial results between the 2012 and 2013 periods.
To facilitate period-to-period comparisons of the company's underlying operating performance we are presenting certain financial information on an adjusted basis as if the modified selling price calculation methodology had been in effect on January 1 2012.
Please refer to the exhibits and reconciliation in the press release or on Slides 12 through 14 of the presentation accompanying this call.
These adjustments impacted revenue and gross profit but did not affect CF Industries economics EBITDA net earnings or earnings per share.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor statement included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
Yesterday afternoon CF Industries reported record first quarter net earnings of $407 million or $6.47 per diluted share compared to earnings of $368 million or $5.54 per share in last year's first quarter.
Our net earnings and earnings per share set first quarter records as our employees did an exceptional job operating the business.
Last year we had an unusually early start to the fertilizer application season.
In stark contrast this year we're experiencing an unusually late start to the season.
However it is our same set of core business strengths of manufacturing flexibility nimble transportation and logistics infrastructure and significant end-market storage assets all operated by the best team in the business that have enabled us to post outstanding results under vastly different market conditions.
The first quarter of 2012 was characterized by an abnormally early start to field preparation work throughout North America most notably in the upper Midwest United States which is an area of significant demand for preplant ammonia application.
The year-ago quarter also was characterized by relatively-low urea imports which set the stage for very strong urea prices throughout the spring season.
This year we saw a more normal weather result and a late -- later start to ammonia application.
During the first quarter of 2013 we also had a higher volume of urea imports which along with the late start to the application season has weighed on urea prices in North America.
Despite these diverging market trends the effective management of our business enabled us to generate 10% growth in net earnings and due to our share repurchases 17% growth in earnings per share.
As you know nitrogen is a nutrient that must be applied on corn every year to generate the yields that allow farmers to maximize their profitability.
In the first quarter we saw clear evidence of strong demand for nitrogen in the volume of UAN that we ship to our customers and we have a very strong UAN order book which indicates our customers' desire to have product available as the season gets up to speed.
During the quarter we sold 3.5 million tons of our products a decrease of 6% compared to the exceptional first quarter of 2012 but also 6% higher than the same period in 2011 when we experienced comparable weather conditions.
In the nitrogen segment we had a year-over-year increase in the average price for each of our major products except urea and strong product volumes considering the later start to application compared to last year.
Ammonia is the product that experienced the greatest year-over-year change in volume.
In 2012 we sold 672 000 tons of ammonia an unprecedented amount that reflected the exceptional weather conditions that allowed farmers to get into their fields to start application in early March.
This year we sold 334 000 tons of ammonia a more typical amount.
The cool wet weather prevented farmers from starting ammonia application in the Corn Belt during the quarter but we did experience good movement in the Southwestern states.
Pricing for ammonia was quite strong throughout the quarter.
The average price per ton was about even with the first quarter of 2012 reported average price and increased about 6% compared to the adjusted average price.
This year-over-year increase in the strength of ammonia prices in the Corn Belt demonstrate the market's strong demand expectations for the spring application season.
Urea sales volume and average prices both declined from the first quarter of 2012.
Our sales volume was very strong in 2012 given the early start to the application season compared to this year.
And as I noted earlier prices declined due to the delayed demand and the higher volume of imports that has come to the U.S.
this year.
This season's price movements compared to the very strong price -- spot market prices last year remind us that this is a dynamic market with sharp price movements in both positive and negative directions.
To be a reliable supplier in this market companies need to have the infrastructure to store their product during periods of market slowness a distribution system to be able to move product to market quickly and the financial strength to weather periods of slow demand and relatively-modest prices.
I emphasize the word relatively because as we know even at the most recent published Gulf urea spot price of $330 per ton CF Industries still earns very attractive margins.
UAN has been an area of robust demand and attractive prices for us this year.
This led us to increase our production of UAN relative to urea in order to capture the enhanced earnings opportunity.
Since UAN can be stored in downstream customer locations we saw strong movement to dealers and distributors as they sought to build their inventories in preparation for a very robust spring application.
To put this in perspective our UAN volumes set a first quarter record and was the second highest we've delivered in any single quarter.
We managed our UAN pricing and order book very well during this period of robust demand.
As a result we realized an average price of $329 per ton.
With the importance of UAN to our company this was a key component of the strong results we generated this quarter.
Our cost of natural gas increased slightly from the year prior levels.
Although weather early in the quarter was relatively mild this March proved to be among the coldest on record and natural gas prices experienced an associated rally.
Our long-term view is that natural gas prices are sustainable in a range of roughly $3 to $5 per MMBtu and the production increases should limit any sustained price rally.
Our Phosphate business generated $28 million of gross margin on sales of $239 million.
While export volume and prices decreased due to a slow international market we experienced healthy volume and prices in the domestic market giving prospects for a strong albeit delayed spring season.
As we noted in our earnings release and the press release we published April 22 we bought back 2.5 million shares during the quarter.
And with purchases subsequent to the end of the quarter we have bought back a total of 3.8 million shares for the year-to-date representing approximately 6% of shares outstanding as of the end of 2012.
These repurchases totaled $750 million for an average price of approximately $197 per share.
We believe the repurchases represent exceptional value.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Dennis for a few more comments on our financial performance.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
During the first quarter of 2013 the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $407 million or $6.47 per diluted share.
This compares to $368 million or $5.54 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012.
Our first quarter 2013 earnings per share included an unrealized gain on natural gas derivatives of $0.23 a loss on foreign currency derivatives of $0.12 and an after-tax net benefit from the recognition of net operating loss carryforwards from prior to our IPO of $0.33.
First quarter of 2012 earnings per share included a mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives of $0.52.
Our Nitrogen business had a very good first quarter which you can see on Slide 6.
We delivered 3 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin of $648 million compared to $662 million in 2012.
The decrease in nitrogen gross margin versus the prior year reflects the more normal timing of shipments this year compared to the early movement last year.
Gross margin as a percent of sales increased from 52% to 59% due to the gain on natural gas derivatives in 2013 compared to the loss in 2012.
During the first quarter of 2013 we sold 334 000 tons of ammonia at an average realized price of $600 per ton compared to 672 000 tons in 2012 at an average reported price of $598 per ton or an average adjusted price of $567.
Ammonia sales volume for the first quarter of 2012 benefited from exceptionally early start to the application season while volume in the first quarter of 2013 reflected the impact of more normal weather conditions.
Ammonia prices increased due to anticipated strong demand for the spring planting season and tight supplies throughout most of the quarter.
Granular urea sales volume was 643 000 tons in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 758 000 tons in the first quarter of 2012.
The average price was $410 per ton in the 2013 period versus an average reported price of $461 or an average adjusted price of $436 in the prior year.
Sales volume decreased due to the later start to the application season compared to the unusually early start in 2012 while the average price decreased due to higher imports than the prior year period.
During the first quarter we sold approximately 1.6 million tons of UAN compared to 1.4 million tons in the first quarter of 2012 an increase of 17%.
Average UAN prices were $329 per ton a 9% increase from the first quarter of 2012.
Our sales volume was higher due to robust demand for movement of product into dealer storage in anticipation of a strong application season and our decision to increase UAN production relative to urea production due to the attractive margin opportunity.
UAN prices increased due to the strong demand and our effective management of pricing structure and our order book.
Ammonium nitrate sales were 208 000 tons in the first quarter of 2013 a decrease from 247 000 tons in the first quarter of 2012.
Average prices were $264 per ton in 2013 an increase from $259 in 2012.
With more normal winter weather in 2013 compared to the very warm weather in 2012 the average daily market price of natural gas increased to $3.49 per MMBtu for the first quarter.
Our realized cost of natural gas was slightly higher $3.57 per MMBtu reflecting the premiums we paid to cap our cost of natural gas for the use of call options.
As of April 30 2013 we had 90% of our projected natural gas needs capped through July.
As shown on Slide 7 our Phosphate segment achieved total revenue during the first quarter of $239 million down 7% from the first quarter of 2012.
Total sales volume for DAP and MAP was 495 000 tons 4% lower than in the first quarter of 2012 with domestic volume up from 325 000 to 382 000 tons due to strong demand associated with expected spring planting.
Export volume was down from 191 000 tons to 113 000 tons due to our having more attractive options in the domestic market.
Although our average price per ton for the products diverged with MAP prices increasing while DAP prices decrease it is worth noting that domestic prices for both products increased due to healthy U.S.
demand.
International prices however decreased due to lower demand than last year.
The Phosphate segment generated $28 million of gross margin down from $50 million reported a year ago due to lower revenues and higher cost of production.
As discussed in the release during the first quarter we recognized a net after-tax benefit of $20.6 million resulting from a closing agreement with the IRS related to net operating losses from periods prior to our IPO when the company was operated as a cooperative.
Our $750 million of share repurchases was funded through cash on hand.
As we reported on April 22 we increased the size of our revolving credit facility from $500 million to $1 billion and extended its maturity by a year to 2018 beyond the time frame within which we expect to complete our capacity expansion projects.
We filed an automatically effective shelf registration statement that enables us to access the capital markets quickly if we should decide to take advantage of the attractive rates at which we could issue debt in the investment-grade credit market.
These actions demonstrate our financial capability to execute our strategic initiatives and we are of course pleased with the ratings upgrade we received recently from Moody's.
Finally we expect to spend between $600 million and $800 million during 2013 on our capacity expansion projects.
This range is approximately $400 million lower than the range we communicated previously due to the refinements and estimated timing of expenditures.
These refinements have no impact on project schedules which are progressing according to plan.
Capital expenditures for existing facilities are expected to be approximately $450 million.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Dennis.
With a team of employees who have exceptional focus on operational excellence we're confident that we will be able to capitalize on the opportunity that this very attractive albeit late starting plant nutrient application season presents.
The late season will require utilization of the strengths of our business: Production mix flexibility transportation and logistic infrastructure extensive end market storage assets and global presence with export options.
Our product mix flexibility is a key capability in dealing with the varied markets such as last year when urea come in at a price premium due to the tightness of its market and this year when attractive prices have made increasing UAN production a valuable option.
Incidentally our flexibility to shift between urea and UAN will increase substantially when our Donaldsonville expansion is complete.
While farmers will make every effort to use ammonia prior to planting this spring we expect they will reach a point where they will forgo preplant application plant their crop and come back later with ammonia and/or UAN.
We have been producing UAN at high rates in order to meet the demand and to realize the very attractive margins that come along with those sales.
While urea prices have been under pressure due to the late-season start and the volume of imports our transportation and logistics system has allowed us to move our urea into the Corn Belt where we believe we will realize the best net pricing.
And having significant end-market storage in particular for ammonia is of critical importance as is being demonstrated this spring.
With a compressed time period available to farmers for applying ammonia having in-market availability of product and the ability to load customer trucks quickly is vitally important.
The vast volume of spring ammonia application often occurs in a period as short as 10 days.
We have organizational insight to global trends and the ability to market our products to export destinations when price opportunities are attractive.
This enables us to identify and take advantage of sales opportunities around the world for all of the products in our production mix.
We anticipate these opportunities will include selling significant volumes of phosphate into South America and India this year as those markets are expected to have robust phosphate demand.
Our share repurchases to-date in 2013 bring the total cash we have used to purchase shares since 2011 to $2.25 billion for 17% of our outstanding shares at an average price of $168 per share.
And we have authorization in place to purchase another $2.25 billion worth of our shares.
During that same period we have paid $182 million in dividends and spent nearly $800 million on capital expenditures.
And last week we completed our Medicine Hat interest acquisition for about $900 million.
In total we have deployed approximately $4.1 billion of capital since mid-2011 to sustain the business invest in future growth and return cash to shareholders.
This has all taken place since our $4.6 billion acquisition of Terra in 2010 which was clearly a timely value creator for our shareholders.
We are committed to continuing this record of disciplined cash deployment as illustrated by our capacity expansions and by our remaining share purchase authorization.
So in conclusion I'm extremely pleased with where CF Industries is today continuing to post very strong operating results and doing what we said we would do in executing strategic initiatives that we believe will create even more value for our shareholders.
With that let's open the call to your questions.
Rachel please explain the Q&amp;A procedure.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve in light of the late planting in North America could you comment on the likely impact on the quarterly cadence of your earnings and perhaps discuss how late in the growing season growers can apply ammonia and UAN and your anticipated mix effects there? Well in terms of the -- I mean the quarterly cadence of our earnings is frankly not something that we spend a lot of time worrying about.
We look at our season from early spring through the beginning of summer and we move as much product as we can into the marketplace when it's demanded.
And the split between Q1 and Q2 ends up being whatever it is.
But having said that we have a very good order book.
We're very optimistic about the amount of product we're going to move in -- into the market and the economics associated with that.
And Bert I'll ask you to handle the second one.
Regarding ammonia application and how late or how long that will go we're seeing good movement throughout our system today and we have throughout the last week and that's distributed around where we have our terminals on the pipelines and on the river and we anticipate that to continue.
The areas that were most affected by not applying ammonia last year were in the north North Dakota Minnesota and Canada and that's the area where we believe significant ammonia needs to go down and that area also has a little bit more of a window to put that product down.
And so we anticipate that area to start this week.
And if you look at North Dakota on the weather MAP which we seem to follow every day they've got an open window probably for the next week with appropriate temperatures and lack of moisture.
On ammonia you can apply ammonia for preplant and have it cure as short as 3 days as long as 7 days and so let's take an average of 5.
And so you need a window to apply and then wait for the product to cure and then plant the seed.
But don't forget that the side-dress season could continue until the plant is up to 3-foot tall let's take an average of 3 feet tall.
And so I would expect that side-dress due to the late planting will continue into July.
So we will see positive movement of ammonia even though we recognize that some ammonia areas may move to UAN ammonia will still be going through 'til early July.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
That's helpful.
As a second question can you comment on the reasons behind the deferral of $400 million in your capital programs to the new range of $600 million to $800 million for 2013? Why was that reduced? And also why -- given the reduction is there no impact on your expected timeline? Kevin there's actually no deferral involved in this.
When we put our estimates together early on in terms of these projects we tend to err on the conservative side in terms of the timing so that we're prepared to handle liquidity needs that could come up as we move forward in the projects and we begin to negotiate for individual pieces of equipment and individual pieces of work.
We're going through contract negotiations with suppliers and the resulting terms of those contracts then determine the cash outflow pattern.
So what we have is much more visibility into the actual outflows that will occur.
So it is simply a refinement in our estimate and it is -- and obviously it's good working capital management if we can manage it in this fashion.
Research Division</strong> So Steve just to clarify is the total expected cost of the project any lower at this juncture? It is not.
We're comfortable with our estimate and things are going along in a way that has at least worked in the direction of increasing our confidence level.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Cornell of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Kimberly Teller sitting in for Matthew.
I just wanted to know has your willingness to hedge additional natural gas over the rest of the year changed at all? We've announced that we're -- we have in place call options that cap our cost of natural gas for 90% of our expected usage between now and the end of July.
And we visit this opportunity on a regular basis.
Should we find the right opportunity to do more of it we certainly will but we've made no decisions at this point.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one other question.
Could you speak a little bit about whether or not you see continued high Chinese export levels for urea being  a concern and just because they've had a weak demand season what the potential is for that over the course of the year? Well the early signals are that we might experience urea import levels similar to those that we experienced last year.
We don't really know until the window opens up but we -- in terms of our own planning we're assuming another strong year of Chinese urea exports.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Steve question on your forward order book it's up considerably year-over-year $700 million.
I think you made some comments that it's primarily UAN.
So what drove the increase year-over-year? Just was it more demand from growers for UAN or was it just your decision that the economics of UAN were more attractive this year than they were last year? Don I'll turn it over to Bert in a second but remember that we had very very strong movement in March of last year and so last year may have been artificially low as a basis of comparison.
But Bert do you want to elaborate? Regarding UAN we identified early in Q1 some trends that we thought were positive for market for UAN.
And we executed several decisions regarding sales sales prices production increases in UAN -- that actually took place late in -- probably Q4 2012.
And so we believe that we identified correctly where the market would be and executed that and then worked with our customers to take sales into Q2 and we're now executing against that.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And Bert just to follow up with urea pricing down where it is it's -- basically UAN is trading at a 30% premium to urea on a nitrogen equivalent base.
Are you seeing any sort of latent interest on the part of growers to use urea or is it just that the convenience of UAN is -- makes it more attractive despite the price? It's interesting.
We talk about these issues.
It seems every year this comes up on what product customers or farmers will switch to and do they switch and will they switch.
And last year even at urea at $700 those who use urea -- traditionally use urea -- stayed with urea even though UAN was trading probably close to $320.
And this year we're seeing UAN priced as you've mentioned at probably a 30% premium and we're experiencing I would say robust demand for UAN but we also expect urea to pick up as customers look to maximize their N applications as they progress in their planting.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Steve can we talk a little bit about sort of what can happen to pricing if we look out 2016 2017 2018 whatever the period is when all the U.S.
plants come online? And if we assume the U.S.
has to become a net exporter do you think you can use the Donaldsonville facility sort of as a valve to keep the U.S.
market balanced and the premium-priced market the way that it is today? Or how do you expect those dynamics to play out? Well first of all Vince and I think it's extremely unlikely that the U.S.
will be in a net export position by 2016 or '17.
I would be quite surprised if that were to happen.
But I will just go on to say that one of the principal reasons we're investing $2.1 billion at our Donaldsonville location is that it's on deep water.
And so we will be in a position to take advantage of the best available economics whether the economics are offshore or onshore.
And I think we're frankly in a unique position with that big footprint that we have in Louisiana.
We have lots of flexibility domestically in terms of the way we move the product and then we have the ability to load oceangoing ships and move it to the -- whatever region of the world can give us the best net-back.
So I think we're ideally suited for handling whatever circumstance evolves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just secondly could you talk about what would cause you to decide to issue debt? I mean obviously you talked about the rates being attractive so -- or maybe the question is why haven't you done it yet? What would cause you to do it or not do it? Yes Vince and I'll just go back to strategy real quickly.
We've announced $3.8 billion capacity expansion projects.
We just completed Medicine Hat.
And we've got a $3 billion share repurchase program of which we've already done $750 million.
So we're very committed to making sure that all of those things happen as Steve said in his speech before the end of 2016.
You will have seen also we've filed a shelf registration statement.
We increased the size of our revolver.
So obviously it wouldn't be surprising given where rates are today that we would go out into the market looking for debt at some point.
When we have something to report on that that's definitive we'll let you know.
But I think we've got as I look at our strategic plans I think we've got a very capital efficient financing plan to deliver on those things over the next 3 years.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
Just circling back on UAN is it a foregone conclusion that Q2 is going to be a record Q2 for CF for UAN and maybe ask the same question for Q3 as well please? I mean Joel I will say I have an idea that it will be a very good quarter.
Whether it will be a record quarter for UAN it's way too early to project that.
Okay.
I also want to ask you with the urea prices coming down hopefully getting to floor prices here do you have a sense that the floor price will be closer to the Eastern European high-cost production cost or some of the Chinese costs? Well Joe I don't think they're all that different.
Certainly our recent experience over the last couple of years has been that when prices get down into this range that the capacity -- the production that reacts is the production in Eastern Europe and we'll see what unfolds.
And finally looking at phosphates do you expect a little bit of demand destruction at all this spring because it keeps pushing out on phosphates? And do you expect summer fill prices to be lower or do you think price have come off enough? Bert? Yes regarding demand destruction what we are seeing and this is anecdotally that farmers are eager to get in the fields and may forgo a P&amp;K application in certain areas thinking they can probably pick that up in the fall.
How big that is or how small that is we'll have to wait and see.
Regarding summer fill we have an interesting scenario taking place in the world of phosphates with India delaying their purchasing and we expect that they have 3 million to 4 million tons to purchase but having a phosphoric acid negotiation and a rate that's closed that puts a higher floor on phosphate DAP imports into India.
And so you could see an increase in phosphate demand in India for DAP as well as the South Americans delaying their purchases of -- right now it looks like all their products and at the same time that will come into the market as our summer fill.
So you could paint a scenario that the markets will improve over the next several months as all of these demand points come at the same time.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When I look at your share repurchase history you've historically tended to buy back shares below $180 a share.
And now you're buying them into the 2s and you're buying them at -- in substantial quantities.
And so I was wondering whether there was a philosophic change on your part in terms of the way that you relate to share repurchase that is why the prices that you're willing to buy stock back now are so much higher than in the past? And what was the highest price that you paid for your shares over the last 2 months? Jeff our philosophy on share repurchases has not changed.
We buy our shares back when we believe they represent good value.
I think I made that comment earlier that we believe the shares we have repurchased represent good value for our shareholders.
And the average price at which we bought -- have bought shares back recently the $750 million was at $168 on average and we noted an average of $197 roughly for the -- for what we did in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly are there any changes in your tax rate going forward given some of the issues that arose this quarter? And on your income statement there was I think a $54 million expense nonoperating expense.
I was wondering what that was? Yes the $54 million nonoperating expense -- if you go back to the discussion in the press release and also in our script we had a settlement with the IRS with respect to net operating loss carryforwards that were generated during the time when the company was a cooperative before our IPO.
That allowed us to reduce our income tax provision in the quarter by $75.8 million to $107 million as you see there which -- what it is on the income statement.
In addition to that we had an agreement with the pre-IPO owners that is other cooperatives and the pre-IPO owners of the company that we would share the benefit of that with them and the sharing of that benefit amounted to $55.2 million.
That $55.2 million is the major component of that other operating expense net.
Research Division</strong> And is there any change in your tax rate going forward or this was all 1 quarter? No this is a one-time thing.
If you go -- if you were to subtract out okay the effects of both the agreement with the owners and also the settlement with the IRS the tax rate wouldn't be 20% as you see here it would be 31% okay? And so we still see our tax -- our effective tax rate going forward more or less in the range that we've seen it in the past.
Your next question is from Chris Parkinson of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Given that Chinese exports in the U.S.
are a relatively well-known theme can you comment on your expectations for pricing trends for both UAN and ammonia given the international supply dynamic and in particular just with respect to producers in North America Trinidad and Eastern Europe? Bert? You were a little bit quiet on your question.
If I understood your question to be "With Chinese exports being what they are or what we expect them to be what do we expect for pricing for our products" is that correct? Research Division</strong> Yes for UAN and ammonia out of the other respective producers? Okay.
Well when you figure out China let me know.
We did not expect the volume of exports to come out of China last year and it ended up being substantial.
And in Q1 they continued that trend and we expect that for the full year 2013 that they will mirror last year more or less.
Again we don't have a plus or minus factor there.
We know that there are substantial quantities already positioned in the ports for the July 1 export date and that's kind of hanging over the market.
That and the combination of Iranian exports to India that seemed to take or dominate those tenders that then has pushed the Arab Gulf tons and other maybe Egyptian tons to the United States and to other markets in excess.
And so we have this 2 million-ton hangover overhanging over the market right now for this current period and some of that will bleed into the third and fourth quarter.
And so what we're seeing is what's being played out --  an irrational market of urea being priced down to where the Chinese may not be encouraged to export.
So the impact on UAN we've seen a divergence.
UAN has been demanded and has been priced we think appropriately.
We've captured that.
The market is eager to utilize the UAN and as well as ammonia is at probably a higher rate.
Going into the third and fourth quarter we will have a natural.
And just like historically we have had the reset we call the fill period in the United States.
And those prices for UAN and ammonia will moderate to a level where farmers are encouraged to contract with their retailers and we will then sell to the retailer.
And so I don't think we're going to have a substantial drop outside of a historical norm for that period and then we should trend well into the third and fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great color.
And just a quick follow-up on the CapEx reduction for Donaldsonville and Port Neal.
Is the remaining $600 million to $800 million still mainly equipment prepayments? Basically is there any other color you could offer there? I'm sorry I couldn't hear your question Chris.
Research Division</strong> Sorry regarding the $600 million to $800 million in remaining CapEx is that primarily equipment prepayments? Tony do you want to comment on that? It's a combination of -- for this year for $600 million to $800 million is combination of equipment prepayment there's engineering and procurement services costs in there and then our expectation is that we're going to begin civil work and construction in -- sometime in the summer.
So there's earthmoving and construction activity in there as well.
Your next question is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Steve you've obviously demonstrated what the flexibility of your system can do in terms of responding to changes in demand.
Do you think it's going to be harder for you to exit the season with nitrogen inventories where you want them? Obviously flexibility helps you get stuff where it needs to be but is it going to be tougher to manage inventories as you exit this year? Well my general comment on that Mark is that every year really has the same objective.
There never seems to be such a thing as a normal or average season.
Some products are in higher demand than others.
And at the end of the year we inherit whatever is there.
We're seeing very strong UAN movement.
Bert talked about an ammonia season going into July.
A lot of nitrogen is going to end up going to the ground.
And so we're -- should we move as much as we think we'll move I think our overall inventory position will be just fine.
We may have a little more of one product than another but that's really the case every year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But no overall -- no greater challenge to the overall nitrogen is what you're saying right? Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And just one more question.
If I tie together a couple of your comments the U.S.
won't be a net exporter by 2016 your comments about China perhaps selling quite a bit again next year do you think there's a trend from -- looking at your own outlook do you see a trend in U.S.
imports over the next couple of years? Or is it actually getting more unpredictable? Bert? Well predictable or unpredictable what has happened this year is some traders and producers were long.
The U.S.
is a liquid market NOLA specifically and we saw product from Oman and other places that may not normally come on a ratable basis begin coming on that -- on a monthly level as well as some other locations like Indonesia.
And so we became the fallback position or the backstop at some points for the market the world market.
Will that continue? I think that nobody likes to lose money.
And so if you're a trader or a producer like this floating China vessel that's stopped in Panama for a couple of months' vacation and then came to NOLA to discharge those people lost a lot of money and that's what people in those positions need to decide what they want to do and how they want to market their products on a consistent basis.
We will have a demand for urea over the long term.
We'll bring it in from Canada as well as from other producing locations.
But at some point it will get to a competitive market where we in the U.S.
will have a substantial increase in production and we will compete with those producers at the various distribution points.
And I think that will moderate itself -- the market will moderate itself.
Your next question is from P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> So you finished the quarter of your $3 billion buyback that runs through 2016.
It seems like an accelerated buyback.
So are you being opportunistic? Or do you see this delayed CapEx and so maybe you pulled your buyback forward? Can you just comment on that? Sure P.J.
I think we've been very consistent in our comments about capital deployment.
All of our initiatives are important to us.
We are committed to doing all of them and we will execute them month by month quarter-by-quarter as it seems appropriate.
Nothing has changed in our attitude towards either the CapEx or the share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a question for Tony.
Tony there was a recent tragic blow-up in West Texas.
Do you think that changes the debate between the communities where these new plants are being built? And do you expect any delay as a result? And are you seeing sort of more inquiries on your project from communities? P.J.
obviously our thoughts are with the -- those affected in West Texas and it was a horrible tragedy.
The hallmark I think of CF Industries and the rest of the producers in the industry is a focus on safety and working with the communities to put in place appropriate first responder response plans and to run drills and exercises and to make sure that all parties know how to respond.
But our first and primary focus is on maintenance and safety and ensuring that we don't have issues in the first place.
And I think the communities in which we operate appreciate the -- what we bring to those communities and respect our operating practices and culture in that regard.
And so while clearly this is a topic that is getting a lot of media attention rightfully so we believe the way in which we conduct ourselves and operate our facilities is appropriate.
So at this time we don't see a significant impact in terms of our ability to move forward on these projects.
Your next question is from Michael Picken of Cleveland Research.
Kind of a follow-up to what P.J.'s question was.
I mean how do you see the tragedy in West Texas potentially impacting the EPA approvals maybe for some of the other greenfield projects that are being discussed or do you think that will have any bearing? And I guess as an addendum to that what does that mean for the future of ammonium nitrate sales here in the United States? Well Mike we -- we obviously -- I certainly echo the comments that Tony made about this event.
And our industry is very very highly regulated today particularly our end of the industry.
We work closely with DHS OSHA the EPA local and state authorities.
We certainly will wait for the full report coming back about what happened.
There are initiatives frankly that have been underway for quite a while related to safe storage and handling of ammonium nitrate.
And in our observation safety is #1 every place every day.
And I think we do safety well but every -- any part of our business can be improved even that part of our business.
I can't predict what's going to happen among regulators in Washington.
We have constructive relationships with those entities both as a company and as an industry through the Fertilizer Institute and we'll be absolutely cooperative and helpful in any way we can in making sure that everybody in the chain of making distributing and using all of our products is following the best safety practices available.
Great.
And then my third question is if you could just quickly walk through now that you've completed the purchase of the remaining 34% of CFL's production what that might mean for your ammonia price realization sort of going forward and kind of you had to sell -- or some of those contracts were on a cost-plus basis.
But if you could kind of walk through how we should think about your average ammonia prices kind of going forward that'd be helpful.
Well Mike I think the best way to think about this acquisition of the 1/3 remaining capacity at Medicine Hat is to think about how we did Terra.
We put all of the production coming from all of the entities into our portfolio.
And we go through a process of rationally selling all of it into the marketplace in an attempt to maximize our overall margin.
This -- it's important to remember of course that this piece of production is already in the marketplace.
It's already been going someplace so it's not being added -- not being added to the market.
We will add it to what our offering is and we'll -- Bert and his team will go out every day and market that in the same effective way that he markets everything else.
Mike I guess I'll just add one thing to that comment and that is certainly one of the things that will happen in a quarter or 2 is that there'll be much better visibility into what our actual pricing is because we will be past the point of having to go through this adjustment process.
And so while the main driver of this transaction of course was having the economics associated with this production simplifying the accounting reporting of it will be a benefit to management and a benefit to investors and analysts.
The next question comes from the line of Tim Tiberio  of Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question more on the demand side.
I know a few months ago people were more concerned that the drought conditions may trap more nutrients in the soil and that could diminish spring demand.
But it seems like in this current environment where spring planting has been delayed there's been significant moisture replenishment.
We have heard anecdotal concerns that farmers are more concerned about nitrogen leaching in this environment.
Putting that into context is this an environment where even though demand has been delayed that we could actually be in a situation that in some regions farmers may actually have to increase applications to kind of replace some of the fall ammonia that potentially could have been lost during this delayed spring? Bert? Regarding leaching and the movement of nitrogen during the period of -- from the period of fall application to spring planting that has also more anecdotal than factual and we're not exactly sure and I can't give you a percentage.
What we will see is what we believe is a maximization of nitrogen as they plant the corn and as they look to have the yield uplift and the right feeding of the crop you will see various applications.
If a spring preplant of ammonia was not able to be put on you'll probably see 2 to 3 applications of UAN especially the irrigated areas and possibly a top-dress of urea in more of the northern areas.
And so on total end demand we're very positive that this year will be similar to others and maybe a slight increase to achieve a maximum yield with a shorter growing cycle.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one follow-up question on Trinidad.
I believe one of your peers indicated that natural gas supply had kind of improved versus previous quarters.
Are you seeing any improvement in that situation and how should we look at that going forward in 2013? Well I think there's a lot of talk about how the supply should become more reliable.
I'm not sure we've seen it yet although the impact on us has not been all that significant.
Over the last couple of years it's been an aggravation but I don't think it's been much of an economic penalty to us.
Your next question is from the line of Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question on the Phosphate business and I'm just wondering maybe a bit more color on the higher production costs that were experienced in 1Q and the decline -- the higher per ton cost there any clarity would be helpful? Well Tim -- Adam sorry the biggest issue affecting our production cost was really the price of ammonia into DAP and MAP.
Tampa ammonia was up significantly year-on-year and that drove the majority of the price increase the cost increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just finally as you think about your -- I know we talked about your inventories but thinking about the industry inventories exiting the spring I mean how do you foresee that impacting really your ability to execute on a normal summer fill program? And these excess inventories that have come into the country I mean how do you think that can delay any kind of summer fill demand as you move into the third quarter? Bert? Summer fill is driven by a number of factors 1 of those would be inventory 2 would be timing.
And generally the retailers and the farmers want to work through their current purchases and then if the crop is at a state where they -- where it's really left to rain and sunshine then focus on the next period.
And so with the late planting we would expect that fall fill will also be delayed for ammonia and UAN until those applications are over.
And so inventory levels again this goes back to the -- you can't -- I don't want to comment too much on the industry those numbers will come out.
But CF we think will be appropriately positioned to begin the fill period and -- but that's the benefit of our system with the distribution assets we have in place with the capability that we have to export products -- when we choose to participate in those markets we will position ourselves to supply our customers in an appropriate level at an appropriate price when the time comes.
I'd now like to pass back to Dan Swenson for closing remarks.
We'd like to thank everyone who participated on the call today.
If you need more information about CF Industries or our results please contact me.
Rachel that concludes our call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen you may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining and enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Danielle I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales and Market Development; and Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its second quarter 2013 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
During this call and in the associated slides and our earnings press release we make reference to certain adjusted or as adjusted financial results.
These adjustments relate to the modification to the selling price methodology used for products sold by Canadian Fertilizers Limited or CFL.
This modification impacts the comparability of the financial results between the 2012 and 2013 periods.
To facilitate period-to-period comparisons of the company's underlying operating performance we are presenting certain financial information on an adjusted basis as if the modified selling price calculation methodology had been in effect from January 1 2012 through April 30 2013 when we closed the acquisitions of the remaining outstanding interest of CFL.
Please refer to the exhibits and reconciliation in the press release or on Slides 14 through 16 of the presentation accompanying this call.
These adjustments impacted revenue and gross profit but did not affect CF Industries' economics EBITDA net earnings or earnings per share.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor statement included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
During the second quarter of 2013 we experienced challenging fertilizer market and business conditions but our solid execution resulted in a seamless support of customers and strong financial results for the company.
As detailed in our press release published yesterday afternoon CF Industries generated net earnings of $498 million and diluted earnings per share of $8.38 on sales of $1.7 billion and a gross profit margin of over 50%.
These results are notable as our earnings per share was the second highest on record.
Our Nitrogen business had a new revenue record in the quarter and gross margin for that segment was second only to the record set in the second quarter last year when average daily natural gas market prices were 44% lower than they were this year.
These results reflect the inherent advantages of our business model and our ability to execute effectively across varying market conditions.
We produce these strong financial results while facing challenges during the quarter principally due to weather but also from other related industry conditions.
Several regions in North America experienced nearly continuous cool and wet weather through May.
This weather was notable for some of the new records that were set as areas in the Corn Belt received precipitation that was 3 to 6 inches above normal.
One of these records was set in Iowa the largest corn-producing state which experienced its wettest March to May period on record.
This unusually cool and wet weather was not unique to North America as Europe Russia and China experienced similar conditions.
These conditions resulted in a late start to planting and many farmers were forced to forgo preplant direct ammonia application because of the limited time window open to get seed in the ground.
This led to increased demand for UAN and the resulting products which enclaved [ph] to our strength as a full-line nitrogen supplier with a broad distribution footprint.
A follow-on impact of the global delays and planning in fertilizer application was the buildup of inventory industry-wide.
With 97 million acres of corn expected to be planted in the U.S.
producers and importers recognized that there would be substantial demand for plant nutrients.
The delay in the application season allowed time for inventories to build which constrained global prices especially for urea and phosphates.
As the quarter progressed the season developed strength quietly and without a lot of fanfare and planting and application accelerated.
Weather conditions improved and were conducive to field activity from late May through the end of the quarter.
Activity was intense with the USDA reporting that more than 97 million acres of corn were planted.
The high level of planted acres led to a large amount of nitrogen moving through the North American distribution system as demonstrated by the high volume CF Industries sold this quarter.
Product movement was strong through the end of the quarter.
And at the end of the quarter we had a near-record low urea inventory and believe that industry-wide ammonia and UAN inventories were within the 5-year historical ranges.
Through the quarter our team worked exceptionally well in overcoming the challenging conditions we faced.
On a very personal level it was a difficult quarter for us as we lost one of our colleagues and 7 other people were injured in the tragic incident that occurred during the turnaround of an ammonia plant at our Donaldsonville nitrogen complex.
The safety of our employees contractors and communities is and will always be our first priority.
We will incorporate the lessons we learned from this incident in our operating practices and reinforce our commitment to safety as priority #1.
In addition to the turnaround at that particular ammonia plant we had other turnarounds and carried out a precautionary shutdown of our Medicine Hat nitrogen complex due to flooding along the South Saskatchewan River.
These contributed to our ammonia system as a whole running at only 92% of capacity during the quarter.
This is a lower rate than we have averaged over the past several quarters but taking plants down for regular maintenance and to protect them against threats such as flooding is consistent with our approach of assuring the safe operating condition of our plants.
Our sales team did an excellent job building a strong order book early in the year during a period of attractive prices especially for ammonia and UAN.
Their ability to find the best available opportunities contributed to higher year-over-year average prices for both ammonia and UAN.
Our sales team also identified attractive urea and UAN export opportunities that have positioned us well for this fall.
We continue to be good financial stewards.
Early in the quarter we issued $1.5 billion of bonds with 10- and 30-year maturities at an average coupon of 4.2%.
The timing of this financing was fortuitous as it coincided with the bottoming of benchmark treasury yields.
And during the quarter we repurchased 2.6 million shares of our common stock for $474 million.
Including activity through August 5 our year-to-date share purchases totaled more than 5.8 million shares or about 9% of our shares outstanding at the beginning of the year.
The more than $1.1 billion of cash returned through these repurchases plus the $49 million of dividend paid so far this year equal almost 10% of our average market capitalization.
We believe these share repurchases represent great value and provide the long-term benefit of increasing nitrogen capacity per share for remaining shareholders.
Shortly after the end of the quarter we received the air permits required for our capacity expansion projects in Louisiana and Iowa.
The receipt of these permits helps clear the way for us to begin construction activity at both sites which we expect will occur in the next several weeks.
With that let me hand the call over to Dennis to share the financial details from the quarter and year-to-date.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
During the second quarter of 2013 the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $498 million or $8.38 per diluted share.
This compares to $606 million or $9.31 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
Our second quarter 2013 earnings included a pretax unrealized loss on natural gas derivatives of approximately $18 million and pretax gains on foreign currency derivatives of $4 million.
The net impact of these 2 items was a decrease of $0.15 in after-tax earnings per diluted share.
First half share repurchases made under our $3 billion repurchase program increased our second quarter earnings per share by $0.53 reflecting a 6% decrease in our weighted average diluted share count for the second quarter.
As Steve shared earlier our Nitrogen business performed exceptionally well during the second quarter.
The segment had record quarterly revenue of $1.5 billion and its second highest quarterly gross margin of $847 million.
We delivered 3.6 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin of 55.5% which you can see on Slide 6.
The decrease in segment gross margin is due primarily to the swing from a noncash mark-to-market gain of $78 million on natural gas derivatives in the second quarter of 2012 to a mark-to-market loss of $18 million in the second quarter of 2013.
It also reflects realized natural gas costs of $3.78 -- $3.79 per MMBtu in the second quarter of 2013 compared to $3.13 per MMBtu a year ago.
We currently have spot agreements covering 90% of plant production for August through November at an average price of $3.67 per MMBtu.
During the second quarter of 2013 we sold 833 000 tons of ammonia at an average realized price of $704 per ton.
Ammonia volume for the second quarter of 2013 was 5% higher than a year ago primarily due to a later start to the application season in 2013 compared to the exceptionally early start in 2012 which pulled ammonia demand into the first quarter of that year.
Our average ammonia price was 11% higher than in the second quarter of last year due to a strong forward order book entering the application season and a robust demand that developed during the quarter.
Second quarter sales of granular urea increased from 694 000 tons to 704 000 tons due to export sales and higher agricultural sales especially into Western Canada.
Our average price decreased from $522 per ton or an adjusted average of $507 to $385 per ton due to global delays in fertilizer application and expectations for higher Chinese exports.
During the second quarter of 2013 we sold 1.6 million tons of UAN essentially unchanged from 2012.
The average UAN price increased from $324 to $341 per ton due to an attractively priced forward order book and strong demand as some farmers switched from ammonia to UAN due to the late start of the application season.
As shown on Slide 7 our Phosphate segment achieved total revenues during the quarter of $190 million down about 18% from the second quarter of 2012.
Total sales volume was 421 000 tons in 2013 compared to 493 000 tons in 2012.
The decrease in volume was due to lower domestic and international product demand.
Average phosphate price realizations during the second quarter were lower than in 2012 due to muted global demand.
And the segment generated a 9.5% gross margin down from 21.8% reported a year ago as a result of lower average selling prices and higher production costs.
Thanks to the strength of our Nitrogen business these quarterly results represent a very healthy first half for CF Industries.
Total first half revenues were $3.1 billion compared to $3.3 billion in the prior year.
And first half volume was 7.5 million tons compared to 7.7 million tons in the prior year period.
Total EBITDA for the 6-month period was $1.6 billion while gross margin was 50% of sales.
Net earnings to common stockholders was $905 million which including the impact of share repurchase activity resulted in earnings per diluted share of $14.80.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Dennis.
We have a cost-advantaged North American footprint that allows us to generate strong earnings under varying market conditions and that positions us well for long-term growth.
And we believe that the current agricultural and fertilizer market conditions are conducive to plant nutrient demand and our near-term profitability.
Corn remains a very profitable cash crop for farmers with futures prices reflecting the market's assumption that the industry will return to more normal stocks following this year's harvest.
Of course the actual stocks use depends on weather between now and late October which will determine the size of this year's harvest.
With fall 2014 futures pricing corn at about $5 per bushel farmers can expect to earn very attractive returns next year from corn relative to other crops.
Based on today's futures prices corn will generate a significant premium over soybeans including the cost of fertilizers.
Given this profit differential we project that farmers will plant about 92 million acres of corn in 2014.
Although the planted area will represent about a 5% decrease from what has been reported as planted in 2013 total acres planted through all crops is expected to decline by just 1% resulting in expected nitrogen demand of 13.3 million nutrient tons in fertilizer year 2014 modestly below the estimated 13.5 million tons in 2013.
This is an historically robust level of nitrogen demand.
Ammonia demand is projected to be healthy this fall in light of planting expectations for next year.
We believe we have an appropriate amount of inventory and planned production so that our system can meet this demand and our commitments to customers.
UAN side-dress application continued very late this year providing us with a high level of spot sales opportunities through June and even into July.
We delayed the start of our UAN summer fill program into July and benefited from strong customer interest.
In the urea market prices in the U.S.
Gulf have tested floor levels.
The Chinese low tariff export window opened on July 1 and that seasonally available product has been moving to various regions.
Notable among these regions is India which has experienced a more normal monsoon season this year improving planting conditions in that country.
We're all aware that subsidy programs and currency fluctuations impact India's purchasing behavior but fundamental planting and crop economic conditions are favorable for urea demand.
We expect that the projected modestly lower nitrogen demand in the U.S.
will result in lower urea imports in the new fertilizer year.
Just as we did in this most recent quarter we will seek the best sales opportunities for our products whether through domestic or export sales.
The phosphate market looks challenging in the near term with modest global demand and substantial available production.
However the recent declines in ammonia and sulphur prices will help margins by reducing production costs.
Longer term the plant nutrient market presents good opportunities for increased earnings.
Growth in global population and a shift to higher-protein diets continue to drive a greater need for grains to feed the world.
These demand factors support our 2% annual growth expectation for the world nitrogen market.
This growth translates into the need for 4 or 5 worldscale ammonia urea complexes to be built each year to satisfy demand.
While some of our peers have announced indefinite delays to their nitrogen expansion plans none of them has cited the lack of expected product demand as a reason.
We are pleased to be in the vanguard of North American capacity additions.
We have met with a number of long-term oriented investors following our Investor Day event in June.
These conversations have been valuable as we as a management team continue to learn more about what is important to the type of investors that make up the majority of our shareholder base.
While the detailed points vary from investor to investor we did hear consistent feedback encouraging us to keep doing what has led to our successful track record: Managing the business with a focus on safety and operational excellence investing selectively in growth projects with attractive return profiles and aggressively returning cash to shareholders through dividends and a value-oriented share buyback program.
We continue to have a significant amount of discussion with investors among management and with our Board of Directors about what methods of returning cash to shareholders are most appropriate for CF Industries.
We are -- and we continuously assess the best path forward in this dimension of our business.
To date our analysis led us to the belief that executing share buybacks has been the best way for us to return cash to shareholders especially since we believe that the earnings potential of the company is not fully reflected in the market price of our stock.
Our actions this past quarter to issue debt while continuing to buy back shares were oriented towards improving the efficiency of our balance sheet and increasing the leverage our shareholders have to our business model.
We are proud of the shareholder value created by CF Industries and are glad that the strength of our business provides us with the wonderful challenge of considering a variety of options for both increasing and returning the value of that enterprise.
We welcome input from our shareholders on this topic.
With that we'll now open the line to answer your questions.
Danielle? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Don Carson from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Steve just want to get an update on your supply demand outlook for U.S.
nitrogen.
We've seen as you mentioned 2 cancellations by some of your peers due to soaring construction costs and there's likely to be another one soon.
So can you comment on cost escalation in general and what you're doing to mitigate that whether you're going to come in on budget as originally expected? And what's your current view on how many significant expansions we might see in the U.S.
either greenfield or brownfield and what that does to sustainability of the net import status of the U.S.
in nitrogen? Okay.
So far on our 2 major projects we have made great great progress in specifying the engineering costs and nailing down the cost of major components that are being fabricated by fabricators for us.
And with respect to those 2 sections of the project cost we are very comfortable with how they're coming in relative to our budget.
They're essentially in line with our expectations.
We are in the process now of looking at -- entering into competitive bidding for the construction costs element of the projects.
That represents roughly half of the total project cost and we'll have more clarity on that aspect of the project cost when we complete the competitive bidding process.
With respect to the number of projects that are likely to be built there's certainly a lot of discussion about that.
There are a number of projects that are moving along.
There are others that have been canceled there are others that are in decision mode.
We don't have any more clarity than the general market has on that point.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just to clarify how long would you expect the U.S.
to remain a net importer of nitrogen? I realize it varies across the 3 major product types but how long do you think that window will remain? Well certainly our projects are coming online in 2015 and '16.
We expect there to continue to be substantial imports of nitrogen at the time we complete our projects and we actually don't see anything on the horizon that's going to flip that for a number of years.
And our next question comes from Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First Steve if we can think ahead to the fall season in the U.S.
can you speak a little bit about the timing of the U.S.
harvest and how important that will be relative to the size of the fall application season? And I guess sort of as a follow through if we have a long or short fall application season what does that mean for sort of the setup going into spring next year in terms of where inventory levels may shake out over the winter? Okay.
Bert Frost will handle that.
This is Bert.
And regarding the fall and the harvest and the size of the harvest and the timing of the applications what we expect to see is obviously with the late maturing crop it may come off later but I think that farmers would take advantage of drying capabilities and be buying and utilizing propane to drive down the corn and get it into the silo.
I actually think this moves to our advantage because as that timing is compressed and there are certain areas of the United States where fall applications make more sense than the spring that those areas then will need to utilize our capabilities which is a rapid response and the ability to quickly supply product to the market and then resupply again in as short as a 2-week window and so that's where we would leverage our terminal system and pipeline and rail service to those terminals to allow the farmers to pull product as quickly as possible and apply it.
Obviously that's weather-driven later in the quarter in Q4.
You could see if we do see an early snow that would be a negative impact but we have that problem every year.
So whether it goes to spring or not some markets are naturally spring applicators and some are naturally fall applicators but we're projecting a robust fall and a robust fall application of ammonia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up -- not as a follow-up but as a housekeeping question.
The CapEx number that you gave in the press release there were 2 numbers there is the one for the brownfield or new plants and then there was a $450 million number.
Was that -- is that a maintenance number or does that have some debottlenecks or other type of activity in it as well? Go ahead Dennis.
Yes.
If you look at our gross spending for the quarter what we've gotten this quarter is we got $250 million of spending of which $115 million $116 million was for the expansions in Donaldsonville and in Port Neal.
The other part of the $250 million is going to have to do with turnarounds and to some degree some debottleneck projects that we have ongoing in the system.
If we look at it Vincent year-to-date we've got $402 million of gross spending $181.5 million of which are applicable to the expansion projects at D-ville and at Port Neal and on the balance of which again is devoted to maintenance sustaining CapEx and also some debottleneck projects as well and some other construction projects of the plants like tank construction and what have you.
So that's sort of what's happened so far this year.
As we look ahead to the balance of the year what we're looking at is a total -- for the guidance for the total year is between $1 billion and $1.3 billion of total CapEx spend and we believe that about $0.6 billion to $0.8 billion of that will be for the big projects at D-ville and in Iowa and then the balance again is going to be between sustaining and the debottlenecking and other construction projects that aren't associated with the big projects.
Vincent with respect to the $450 million that is above trend line for maintenance CapEx because of the number of turnarounds we have and because of some discretionary projects including some small debottlenecks that are in there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just where would you think that number would be going forward for next year or too soon to tell? I think if you look at maintenance CapEx going forward we're probably looking at between $300 million and $350 million a year.
And our next question comes from Christopher Parkinson from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned one of the reasons for the recent decline in ammonia was due to offshore producers shifting from urea to ammonia.
In your view what inning do you think this game is in given the spread has recently narrowed and how do you see this going forward? I'm sorry could you repeat your first question? Research Division</strong> Sorry.
I said given the -- you mentioned in your release that one of the reasons for the declines in ammonia was due to offshore production shifting from urea to ammonia.
What inning do you think this game is in and how do you see this going forward? What inning do we think this game is in? I don't know what game you're talking about but I'll just comment on this general development.
The fact that some offshore producers shifted from urea to ammonia is indicative we think of support for our cost curve globally for urea.
The fact that those producers found the ammonia market to be more attractive than urea at the price level it fell to we view it frankly as a positive long-term indicator for the strength of our cost position.
With respect to where we are in the evolution of urea prices generally we've tested this general floor level several times over the last few years and we believe that our look at that global cost curve and the margin implications is intact.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And just kind of a derivative of that question.
Can you just offer a little more color on the mix benefit opportunities between UAN and how you see this in the second half versus the first half? Bert? This is Bert.
I assume what you mean by the mixed benefits is in the composition of the options available to CF whether that's urea UAN ammonia or ammonium nitrate depending on the plant.
UAN because it's consumed 3 to 4 months out of the year predominately in the spring it's a build season which we've just entered which is the July through March period where our customers are building their inventory in preparation for spring which again like ammonia is a very quick dump.
And so what we've just completed in our summer fill program over the last month was pricing that product to our customers and now we're beginning the shipping period.
So we're very comfortable with the forward position for the United States market as well as the options that are available to us in the world market.
Our urea inventory as we mentioned in the press release was very low entering Q3 and we're going to be continuing to produce at full rates for our urea capability or capacity.
But our other products are also in a low-inventory state.
So we see many options for us going forward and market options in our ability to capture profitable sales.
And our next question comes from Matthew Korn from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First a lot of news recently and the market's now anticipating a large drop in potash prices should the industry shift as it looks like it might.
Would you anticipate any impact on nitrogen demand at the margin or in the growth rate going forward as an effect of like a rebalancing of nitrogen versus potassium costs? And secondly if we were to see a divergence in the pricing direction between like corn and soybeans between now and when farmers make their planting decisions this spring how much of that 92 million acres would you say is practically at risk would it be 4 6 8 more or less just would like your opinion there too? Okay.
With respect to the first question on potash we're not in the potash business but frankly nitrogen demand goes with planting.
And if farmers are going to plant 92 million acres of corn they will fertilize to that level at optimal levels.
The economics are very very favorable for corn planting.
There hasn't been any diminution of nitrogen demand because of potash prices being at some higher level than they might be in the future.
Nitrogen demand is pretty inelastic with respect to demand for the other nutrients.
And Bert on the other question? This is Bert.
Regarding corn and soy and the price structure that's currently in place on the Chicago Board of Trade what I think would be more likely is that your outer reaches -- your marginal acres in the world and specifically Mato Grosso for the second-crop corn the safrinha that will go in in January and February of 2014 would be most at risk.
Your outer reaches there Sapezal Lucas do Rio Verde would probably be okay Sorriso those regions that plant the second-crop corn and have fertilized more in recent years and those yields have gone up and you're seeing that expressed in Brazil's exports of corn and as well as the pricing for corn probably would decrease.
And I think that would support the corn levels that we're talking about for the United States and that's just a yield and the infrastructure ability to move that corn at a fair price for a farmer.
And so the next probably level for the United States would be dryland corn and that's going to be competing with wheat.
And where wheat on the stocks-to-use ratio is today it's still more attracted to plant dryland corn in the Oklahoma Kansas regions that are currently planting today.
And so I would say on the corn-soybean balance it's still favorable to corn and probably will be just due to supply and demand factors in the world and planting costs around the world.
And our next question comes from Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve with regard to your planned expansions at Donaldsonville and Port Neal just curious as to whether CF has been approached by any companies interested in partnering with CF either as a financial partner that would defray capital costs or perhaps as a business partner willing to baseload the incremental capacity? And if so are there any scenarios under which that might make sense for the company in your view? Well our projects are 100% owned by us.
We're very confident of our ability to construct the projects and operate them and sell the product.
So we don't have any plans along those lines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So most likely scenario is go alone then.
Okay.
And then just curious on cash return to shareholders I appreciate the magnitude that's occurred year-to-date but just curious on the dividend Steve it's been stable for about 2 years or so.
Do you care to comment on whether or not you would see any potential to increase the payout level in coming quarters? Well I made a comment in my prepared remarks on that general subject.
We are very pleased to be in a position of generating lots of cash and having lots of optionality with respect to how to deploy that cash.
We talk about that deployment on a regular basis among ourselves as a management team with our board.
And we're certainly open to reexamining frankly everything we do if good ideas are presented to us.
Should we change our views certainly we'll communicate that at the time we do that.
And our next question comes from Tim Tiberio from Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess looking at the sharp decline in ammonia prices particularly in the mid-Corn Belt I've received several questions from investors just wondering if retailers are taking product during this period and prices are still declining is there the risk that retail pricing is not adjusted fast enough heading into the fall application season to kind of support the fall demand that you're talking about even in a compressed window? So I just wanted to I guess get your insight into whether you think that is a meaningful risk on the margin that farmers could maybe delay some of the purchasing into spring if we don't get that retail adjustment quick enough.
Bert? This is Bert.
And so it's an interesting question relative to risk and market optionality.
Market prices are changing daily at times.
And so yes we're going to see a correction and we've already seen that with ammonia pricing to our customers which tend to be the retailers and wholesalers and traders.
And so I think those prices have already corrected.
We've already launched our fill program and are having dialogue with each of our customer bases regarding the product mix that they will need.
Retailers are taking ownership but generally that ownership still rests with the producer with us with our terminal system.
There's a summer fill program that takes place in June and July.
That is a quick fill but that retail space is fairly limited.
And then they rely on the producers in the larger terminals throughout the Midwest that are on the pipeline and are along the river to make those sales.
So we have to position that product for fall sales and generally do that tying it through sales.
So we're selling the product positioning in the terminals and then preparing our barge and pipeline movements to meet that demand.
And so will the adjustment be fast enough? I think farmers right now are focused on their crop and rightly so.
They've planted the crop it's growing it looks like we're going to have a fairly large harvest.
And so I think as that product gets closer to maturity then the attention will be placed on planting next year's and preparing the nutrients.
But farmers are smart people they're economic beings in their heart and they're trying to figure out the lowest cost price to put that crop in the ground to achieve the maximum yield.
So they will focus on nitrogen.
And we believe that by October or September the majority of those decisions will have been made and we will have our product priced sold and prepared to go to the ground in November.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great insight.
Just one follow-up question.
I noticed that in the Pakistan tender today that we did see a small bounce on urea prices.
Should we view this as just another event and continued volatility in international prices? Or are you of the view that with the size of the recent tenders that we've seen in the international markets that maybe we're at the point that we could actually start building somewhat of a positive base heading out of the low-tariff window for Chinese exports? Okay.
So a lot of questions in that one.
Look urea prices have been very volatile over the last several years hitting the floor that Steve mentioned this $300 level short ton U.S.
short ton NOLA rising all the way last year in April to $740 and then back down.
So prices will continue to be volatile to world -- of globally traded product.
And today I think you've hit on the right point that China is driving this market with the abundance of exports that are expected in Q2.
The market anticipated that level of exports.
It's now being realized in Q3 and we anticipate that to wind down through Q3 and probably will bleed out into Q4.
But from what's coming out in the publications and from our own investigations with the cost of anthracite coal and the production cost and logistical cost to put that product into the Chinese bonded warehouses and onto a vessel there is not much of a profit option available to a Chinese producer.
So what is happening? We are seeing less tonnage shipped to the ports.
And so by the end of Q3 a scenario could be painted that there will be less available to export as this program winds down.
So is the Pakistani tender a reflection of that? Possibly.
But demand has been robust for nitrogen this year.
India has taken a significant level and we expect that India could be at an all-time high for urea imports.
Pakistan Brazil and other markets are doing the same.
And so the tenders did start later but they have been bigger and that is helping to sustain I think at this floor level.
So I do think you can build a case for higher prices worldwide going into 2014 and that should spur I think appropriate behavior.
And we're I'd say positive going forward for the options to CF.
I think if we take this subject and bring it back to CF Industries it's important for us to all realize that nitrogen will continue to be a cyclical and seasonal business.
There will be significant moves in prices.
But the beauty of our position is with sub-$4 gas and urea prices in the range that we're talking about right now there's plenty of money to be made at this company.
And we are seeing reinforcement of our thesis that we're in a sustained period of higher lows and higher highs.
That is a great band to be operating in.
And our next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think the USDA thinks that the corn yield this year will be 156.5 bushels per acre and that will plant 97.5 million acres.
Is that your view as well or do you think the numbers will be higher or lower? How has the weather evolved and how do you see that influencing yield? We don't really have any basis for having a substantially different view.
Our thoughts are right in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you said that you bought back 5.8 million shares so far this year.
I think you bought back 5.1 million in the first half.
So it seems that your general orientation to your share repurchase program is that your shares represent a good value and that it's better to allocate more capital upfront for your longer-term program.
Is that correct? And then the second part is was there anything unusual about your tax rate in the quarter that elevated it? Jeff can you just elaborate.
I didn't understand your point about the program upfront what did you mean by that? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So you have a multiyear multibillion-dollar share repurchase program.
And it seems like you've bought shares sizably in the first quarter and the second quarter.
You continue to buy them in the third quarter I think.
So it sounds like you wish to allocate more of your capital to share repurchase in the early years rather than having it go all the way out I think your program ends in 2016? It ends at the end of 2016.
Our attitude on this first of all is that we have plenty of liquidity to execute our share repurchase program and our capacity expansion projects.
And I think we've demonstrated that obviously by the facts that you cite Jeff.
Our view on deploying capital for share repurchases is that we would like to be able to look back at the end of the program and say we did a good job doing it.
Whether we buy more or less in any given month or any given quarter is not particularly pertinent.
We gave ourselves a 4-plus-year authorization in order to maintain flexibility.
If we don't need all of that flexibility fine.
If we do need it fine.
There's not any particular timetable that's important to us here.
Research Division</strong> Was there something unusual about your tax rate this quarter? Dennis? Yes.
If you go back to 2012 Jeff we had a tax provision in the quarter of $309 million on pretax earnings of $960 million which gave us a rate of about 32.2% at the time.
This year we had a tax provision of $283 million on pretax earnings of $802 million or a tax rate of about 35.2%.
The big change there is remember that in the pretax earnings that is used for the denominator is included -- or was included Viterra's share of the earnings of CFL.
In 2012 that Viterra share as reported would've included the profit that they earned selling product at a full mark-to-market basis okay so effectively product sale basis.
As you wind the clock forward to 2013 we adjusted that so that actually the share of the income that Viterra earns from CFL is at a cost-plus basis.
So effectively what that does is that it pulls down the denominator pushing up the tax rate because the tax provisions for -- that you see that is used in that calculation is the tax provision for CF's proprietary income.
It does not include a tax provision on the income of others.
So that's really the big change there.
Research Division</strong> So what's your tax rate for the year? We're usually around 35% and that's what we think we're going to be around this year.
And our next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Farmers tend to think of P&amp;K in a similar fashion.
So with the recent change in potash landscape what is the risk that lower potash prices could spill over into phosphate and drag phosphate's market down? Bert? This is Bert.
A lot of speculation today on what's going to happen in the potash world and I think you'll hear more about that today from one of our colleagues.
Really as the farmer looks at this I don't think they're necessarily comparing the potash price to the phosphate price but they do go on together when you're broadcasting or putting the product down.
And so they're complementary in that sense.
You -- I think people on the production side as well as the traders and wholesalers do tend to look at those prices to see a relative value sense but I don't think it's that way for a farmer.
He's looking at his overall nutrient needs and trying to economically put down the best choice for him depending on soil type and seed and other varying issues.
So I don't see a spillover.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on your Analyst Day you explained that cost curve really well the urea cost curve.
You talked about demand of 183 million tons of urea.
If U.S.
corn acres decline as you expect next year and presumably global acres also decline where do you see that demand on the cost curve? Well we're talking in the U.S.
about a decline in acreage to 92 million acres.
92 million is a lot of corn acres historically very high.
And I think you may recall that I made a comment that we see the demand for -- on a nutrient ton basis in the U.S.
going from 13.5 million tons to 13.3 million tons.
That's so small as to almost be lost in the rounding.
So we don't see that as a significant event that's going to affect urea demand.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly quickly you talked about your urea exports.
Was it just opportunistic and what are your inventories now post these exports? Yes this is Bert.
For the urea exports as well as UAN you could say they're opportunistic.
We look at all the opportunities that are available to us at the time.
Obviously we're students of the market trying to determine where the best option for us on a profitability basis lies.
And during the quarter during Q2 we did export to several countries based on a relative value equivalent to NOLA.
And so at that point that was attractive to us and we executed those sales.
On UAN we sold to Mexico France Belgium Argentina Uruguay and if you consider Canada an export we also sent product up there.
And so those are also options available to us and that's really a balancing issue.
And so as we look at our production facilities and where they're located and the logistical constraints or options available to them Donaldson at times makes sense for us to export and it's an attractive proposition for us.
And our next question comes from Michael Picken from Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to talk a little bit about your phosphate margins for the quarter.
They were a little bit lower sequentially than last quarter and just sort of wondering when we might see the impact of those lower input costs kind of flow through and whether we should expect a higher gross margin percentage even if DAP prices are falling in the back half of the year? I think as a very crude rule of thumb those changes in input costs usually take about a quarter to roll all the way through our system.
Okay.
So I guess was there anything sort of unusual in terms of your raw costs or anything else on the phosphate side? No.
It's just been a tough market.
Okay.
And then last question just switching over back to nitrogen.
Could you talk a little bit about the substitutability between UAN and urea both in the Midwest and then kind of in other parts of the country like how much would farmers go back and forth between the 2 products based on pricing? That's an interesting question which we discuss -- we seem to discuss every spring.
The absolute switchability all the products can be switched.
Then it depends on equipment.
So then there are regional differences on the type of equipment.
A producer or a retailer may own if they're doing custom application.
And then again it gets back to soil type seed type and what type of farming you're doing.
And so we do -- and this year we did see some switching and you see that reflected as we discussed in our lower overall ammonia volume on a 6-month basis.
We had a huge amount of urea come in to the United States.
Almost 1.7 million tons over and above last year's record were imported into the United States.
That coupled with 300 000 tons of UAN which was over and above last year's level -- this is on a fertilizer year basis -- points to what we expected probably going into Q2 of high level of inventories coming out of Q2.
That is not the case.
What happened? A lot of that urea was because of the price -- the attractiveness of that value proposition for urea was consumed probably -- and who suffered was the ammonia volume.
And so we talked about that in our quarterly release.
But again inventories coming out of Q2 are fairly low for all the products.
So it's an interesting analysis on how that balanced based on the value proposition.
The flexibility that some farmers have to shift between urea and UAN and the changes that occur between the relative prices are factors that drove our decision to expand the flexibility of Donaldsonville.
To be able to switch between urea and UAN we can do that quickly and we're able to capture whichever is the better margin opportunity.
We can run a few weeks one way switch in a short time period run a few weeks the other way and we do that regularly.
And we did that this year.
And you can see based on our -- if you look at our production volume 2013 over 2012 we're almost 300 000 tons higher on UAN as a reflection of that decision we made in January to favor UAN over urea.
And our next question comes from Adam Samuelson from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A lot of ground covered on the call today.
Maybe I was hoping to get a little more color on the corn acreage outlook and maybe some of the sensitivities to that 92 million acre outlook specifically what do you think that does? And I see it in the chart in the slides but it's hard to read kind of what it does to bean acreage and wheat and cotton and kind of where -- how you think about the sensitivity of that to its ultimate pricing this fall and maybe upside potential upside to that acreage number for next year? Well we're sitting here with corn crop maturing awaiting harvest and awaiting if weather patterns are going to develop with respect to the harvest.
So we don't really know what the ending position is going to be yet.
And so one of the inputs that's determining the acreage plant next year a major input will be what the result is of this year.
So there's an assumption in all of this work of having a very strong harvest a lot of grain put in the bins.
And that if we put those factors together and look at the relative economics of various crops we come out with about 92 million acres next year.
There's sure sensitivity to that number but it's around a very strong market in general.
I would point out that in 2011 when we had about 92 million acres or 92.5 million acres of corn first of all everybody thought that was a wonderful crop.
Secondly we generated almost $3 billion of EBITDA that year in that kind of scenario.
So we -- obviously these projections will change over time but we don't know which direction.
Research Division</strong> No I appreciate that.
I guess I'm wondering given some of the CRP acreage that's come into the system how much is the increase in acreage up into this 97 million range potentially could be structural for a couple of years especially given the increase in [indiscernible] in many parts of the Midwest? And if that's the case you run the risk of more 14 billion bushel potential harvests that could then yet drive corn prices even lower than we are today.
I'm just trying to get your view on that balance.
Okay I understand.
Bert do you want to comment on that? Yes.
I think what you're going to see is the marginal acre as you mentioned whether that's CRP or dryland farming or even up into Canada what got converted into corn possibly could go back to other crops wheat canola.
But I think you're going to see -- you got take it on a global basis with what's going on with corn soybeans and cotton and the optionality available to different countries.
And I would go back to Brazil in Paraná probably you won't see as much first-crop corn; as well as Mato Grosso you won't see as much second-crop corn.
What would replace that would be beans.
So we see the comparative competitive advantage shift that has been taking place that the U.S.
is much stronger in corn and South America is becoming -- it already has become the advantaged producer for soybeans.
Then it goes to the second crop and I would expect to see cotton produced more in the outer reaches of Mato Grosso shift more to that this year over second-crop corn.
So I think our 92-million-acre expectation is pretty solid.
Now you have to remember on a yield basis if we're projecting the USDA is at 156 somewhere as high as 166 whatever that number is and you have a 14-billion-bushel crop in the United States that's unprecedented.
And our ability to do that year-on-year has not been consistent.
And so be careful when you project out that we'll have various or multiple years at that level probably not likely.
And our next question comes from Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Steve as you think about the seasonality and cyclicality and your mix begins to shift even more dramatically towards nitrogen do you tend to feel more inclined to look for ways to expand the Phosphate business? Or are you okay with this continual shift towards nitrogen or substantial shift towards nitrogen? Our Phosphate business is a worldscale operation.
We have a mine that produces about 3.5 million tons of rock and that meshes well with our chemical plant.
As I'm sure you know the ability to expand operations in Florida is somewhere between 0 and tiny.
We buy small parcels of land that contiguous to our operation when the opportunity arises adding some tonnage to our reserve base.
But certainly domestic expansion is not a reasonable option.
And other places in the world with huge phosphate deposits are not particularly friendly to foreign investment although we've occasionally looked at those things.
And if opportunities were to arise we'd certainly take a look at them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question with Donaldson substantially changing your flexibility to export does that have any impact on the way you approach hedging? I'm just wondering if the opportunities to hedge are going to look different when you have so much more flexibility.
I haven't thought about it that way Mark.
I don't think so.
I mean we look at our gas supply which is -- which after the expansion will be close to 1 Bcf a day.
We try to balance the opportunities that may exist in the market against mitigating some risks.
I think we've done a reasonable job through the years.
I think just because we're bigger it's probably not going to change our profile on that.
And I -- whether the product heads north or southeast and west I don't think is necessarily pertinent to how we buy our gas.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions for today.
I would now like to turn the call back to Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications for any closing remarks.
We'd like to thank everyone who participated on the call today.
If you need more information about CF Industries or our results please contact me.
Danielle? Thanks for participating on the call.
That concludes our call.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
That does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Nicole and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And with me are Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Tony Will our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales and Market Development.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its third quarter 2013 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
All statements in the release and on this call other than those relating to historical information or current conditions are considered forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control and which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These risks and uncertainties include those spelled out in the Safe Harbor statement included in yesterday's news release and the slides accompanying this call.
Consider all forward-looking statements in light of those and other risks and uncertainties and do not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Steve Wilson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
Yesterday afternoon CF Industries reported third quarter 2013 net earnings of $234 million or $4.07 per diluted share on revenues of $1.1 billion and EBITDA of $478 million.
While these figures were lower than our year-ago results they represent very strong performance given the fertilizer market conditions that were defined and what we believe to be floor prices for nitrogen during what is traditionally the slowest quarter of the year.
They are a demonstration of the higher lows portion of our higher highs and higher lows investment thesis that comes thanks to our advantageous position at the low end of the global nitrogen cost curve which in turn is due to the low cost of North American natural gas.
Weak nitrogen pricing reflected a high level of global supply slow purchasing activity at the farm level and hesitation by dealers and distributors because of market uncertainty.
Midwest market ammonia prices fell during the second quarter but stabilized in the third quarter.
International prices found the floor in July and recovered slightly as producers in the Black Sea and Eastern Europe turned down production.
At the end of the quarter North American ammonia inventory was largely in line with the 5-year average.
Urea prices declined further in the third quarter following the large drop in the second quarter as the market slipped to Chinese cost levels.
Global urea market remained long during the third quarter largely due to oversupply stemming from China coupled with global purchasing deferral.
Producers in Eastern Europe Ukraine Italy and Turkey closed plants for extended turnarounds during the period as high Chinese exports put pressure on the market.
Eventually higher cost producers in China reduced output in response to the low prices.
Behavior of these producers supports the confidence we have in the global cost curve.
Gas supply shortages occurred in Egypt Bangladesh Iran Argentina Trinidad and Pakistan.
Urea buying in the U.S.
was quiet during the quarter as dealers and distributors waited to see where prices would stabilize and for farm level demand to materialize.
As a result U.S.
Gulf prices during the quarter were generally below of the world market.
Global UAN prices also declined in the third quarter.
Following summer fill programs buyers adopted a wait-and-see mentality resulting in weak demand and lower imports into the U.S.
Prices remained at a level that discouraged supply from high-cost producers in Eastern Europe.
Producers in Romania and Lithuania shut down and suppliers in Russia reduced output due to turnarounds.
These reductions kept the global UAN market largely balanced but pressure from low urea prices continues to weigh on the market.
Even with these conditions including urea prices at the U.S.
Gulf near the theoretical floor during most of the quarter our Nitrogen segment generated gross margin of $358 million or 41% of sales thanks to the advantage provided by the low cost of North American natural gas.
Our Phosphate business faced a similarly challenging set of market conditions.
Global phosphate prices continued to decline in the third quarter the result of weak global markets and declining input costs.
Global supply has remained long over the last few months with producers seeking outlets in a competitive market.
On the demand side international phosphate purchasing remained slow in the third quarter with India buying significantly less than a year ago and the soft U.S.
market added to the global imbalance.
India's absence continues to be a major disruption to the market.
Indian imports were low in the third quarter due to continued weak domestic demand there which is a result of high end market inventories entering the year and an unfavorable subsidy for phosphate products.
Interest by Latin American and Asian buyers has been strong though not enough to offset the lower Indian purchasing.
As you know we recently made 2 significant strategic announcements a substantial increase in our dividend and a set of transactions with Mosaic.
The decision to raise our dividend reflects the confidence we have in the cash generation capacity of the business and our commitment to returning cash to shareholders.
We concluded that raising the dividend to roughly the average yield of the S&amp;P 500 is the right place for CF Industries today.
We will monitor this as we move forward with our other cash deployment activities.
The decision to sell our Phosphate business is one that we have considered off and on for several years.
The opportunity to combine the $1.4 billion sale with a pair of long term ammonia supply contracts was very attractive to us.
Mosaic is the logical buyer of our Phosphate business and we are pleased that they will become a major customer.
This is a clear win-win as evidenced by the market's reaction last week.
Together these announcements reflect our management and board's ongoing commitment to pursue strategies that add value for shareholders.
With that let me turn the call over to Dennis for some details on our financial results.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
During the third quarter of 2013 the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $234 million or $4.07 per diluted share.
This compares to $403 million or $6.35 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012.
Our third quarter 2013 earnings included $6 million of pretax unrealized losses on natural gas derivatives and $22 million of pretax gains on foreign currency derivatives which together increased diluted earnings per share by $0.18.
Our third quarter 2012 earnings included pretax mark-to-market gains on natural gas derivatives of approximately $40 million and an $11 million gain related to a change in employee postretirement benefits which together provided a $0.50 increase in third quarter 2012 earnings per diluted share.
Despite the slow market conditions our Nitrogen business performed well during the quarter.
We delivered 2.8 million tons of nitrogen products and achieved a gross margin of 41% which you can see on Slide 7.
The decrease in segment gross margin reflects lower revenues along with realized natural gas cost of $3.54 per MMBtu during the third quarter of 2013 as compared to $3.34 a year ago.
It also reflects the noncash mark-to-market loss of $6 million on natural gas derivative contracts in the third quarter of 2013 as compared to a gain of $40 million on natural gas derivative contracts in the third quarter of 2012.
At the end of the quarter we had hedge positions for approximately 74% of our expected natural gas purchases for the final quarter of 2013.
During the third quarter of 2013 we sold 401 000 tons of ammonia at an average price of $527 per ton.
The volume was 4% lower than a year ago due to inventory carryover from the second quarter and slower purchasing activity associated with price uncertainty.
Our average ammonia price was 15% lower than the third quarter of last year due to high industry-wide inventory.
Third quarter granular urea volume decreased by 2% year-over-year to 548 000 tons reflecting the slower purchasing activity associated with buyers taking a wait-and-see attitude during a period of weak prices.
Our average of $338 -- our average price of $338 per ton was 28% lower than a year ago due to the weak global market associated with high supply and prices falling to cash breakeven levels for Chinese export producers.
We sold 1.4 million tons of UAN during the third quarter of 2013 a decrease of about 10%.
This was due to the later start of our UAN fill program which deferred some revenue beyond the third quarter and lower demand later in the quarter as customers delayed purchases as a result of uncertainty about the direction of the market.
The average UAN price realization was $274 per ton only 7% below the year-ago price reflecting the effectiveness of our fill program.
As shown on Slide 8 our Phosphate segment achieved total revenue during the quarter of $221 million down about 16%.
Total sales volume was 526 000 tons 2% higher than in the third quarter of 2012 due to export sales.
Average phosphate selling prices declined for both DAP and MAP due to lower overall global demand.
The segment generated a 13% gross margin down from 24% a year ago due to lower average selling prices which were partially offset by lower ammonia and sulfur input costs.
These quarterly results contributed to year-to-date revenue of $4.1 billion total EBITDA for the 9 month period was $2 billion while gross margin as a percentage of sales was 46% leading to net earnings to common stockholders of $1.1 billion.
These are strong figures considering the tough global pricing environment in which we are operating this year.
Share repurchases during the first 9 months of 2013 increased EPS by $1.06 and with the items mentioned before contributed to year-to-date diluted earnings per share of $19.01.
Early in the quarter we repurchased 700 000 shares for $130 million.
We did not purchase any additional shares during the quarter.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Dennis.
Total planted area in North America was high in 2013 and is projected to be at a similar level in 2014.
We forecast that 92 million acres of corn will be planted in 2014 below the estimated 97 million acres planted this year due to lower expected corn prices in 2014.
However to provide a bit of context that 92 million acres would be equal to the most recent 5-year average.
For 2014 planted area for wheat the second-largest crop for nitrogen consumption is forecast to be 56.5 million acres slightly higher than the 2013 planted area.
Nitrogen application rates on most crops are expected to increase in 2014 due to lower fertilizer product prices and continued profitable farm economics.
Nitrogen use in 2014 is forecast to be 13.3 million nutrient tons for the fertilizer year a slight decline from 2013 primarily because of lower projected corn acreage.
We expect fall ammonia shipments to be below year-ago levels but about even with the 5-year average.
And it is worth noting that we have seen good movement so far early in the fall season.
Demand for agricultural ammonia in 2014 is anticipated to be strong in light of the 92 million acres of corn we expect to be planted.
A long global urea market is expected until the end of this year but we could see price recovery in the spring with certain factors aligned including reduced Chinese exports and strong demand in both the U.S.
and Europe.
The Chinese urea industry will be a key determinant of global prices through 2014 and much of the impact will be determined by the production cost and tax policies.
The Chinese government typically reviews export taxes in December.
For planning purposes we're assuming status quo with respect to the export tax and urea exports of around 6 million metric tons in 2014 compared to close to 8 million tonnes in 2013.
We estimate that the U.S.
had low urea imports in the third quarter due to slow purchasing activity and prices that were not compelling to importers.
However buyers are expected to pick up the pace of purchasing in the fourth quarter.
Indian import demand is expected to increase in fertilizer 2014 to about 8.8 million metric tons up from 8 million last year.
To date only slightly more than 5 million tonnes have been booked.
Though Indian purchases should continue to absorb Chinese and Iranian product in the fourth quarter.
The UAN outlook is strong through the spring.
Pressure from other nitrogen markets may limit pricing upside.
The market is expected to remain stable through the end of the year as imports should remain limited.
Producers in Eastern Europe are likely to remain under price pressure and may only run to serve domestic markets in the next 6 months while Russia is likely to capture some export share from these regions.
We believe that the cost advantage provided by low cost North American natural gas should enable us to continue to earn attractive margins as we move forward.
To provide perspective on the earnings power of our business consider that the average cash margin for a nitrogen producer in the Gulf region with urea at $300 per ton and natural gas at $4 per MMBtu is over 50%.
This speaks to the strength of the earnings profile of our Nitrogen business even in the recent floor price environment.
We will continue to focus on safety and operational excellence on our Phosphate business and run it at full rates until the sale to Mosaic closes.
Before we move to your questions I'd like to thank all of the employees in our Phosphate business.
Your dedication to safety environmental stewardship and operational excellence has created substantial value for our shareholders.
I'm sure that you will continue that focus up to and following the closing of the sale we announced last week.
With that we'll now open the line to answer your questions.
Nicole? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Steve question on your agreement with Mosaic.
Specifically what kind of spread you're taking on the Donaldsonville sales? And I assume that it's at a reduction to the market price.
And what the logic of that was? And just a broader comment on supply/demand.
So Faustina is the third canceled North American nitrogen expansion but we've seen some new announcements such as Yara BASF.
So what's your current assessment of the North American supply/demand outlook and specifically the U.S.
net import position and how that's going to play out over the next 3 to 4 years? Don with respect to the agreement with Mosaic to supply ammonia out of Donaldsonville in our release last week we disclosed all of the parameters of that agreement that we intend to disclose.
And that's mainly for competitive reasons that we're limiting our specific comments to that.
But to put all of this in context this is a terrific deal for us and we think it's a very good deal for Mosaic.
It provides us with returns that are roughly in line with the returns that we expect in the Donaldsonville expansion project.
It takes some amount of uncertainty out of those returns.
And we're very very happy with that agreement.
And we're happy to have Mosaic become our largest ammonia customer.
With respect to the overall evolution of projects in North America I think it's sort of going as one might have expected.
Some projects notably ours and the Orascom projects are in I guess in full force going forward under construction.
Other projects that have been announced either have not materialized or in some cases have been canceled.
And it doesn't surprise me that we have new announcements because if you look at the strip for North American natural gas it is quite attractive.
We remain quite comfortable that when our projects come online and we'll be either first or very close to first that the environment will be very attractive.
We'll be able to front-end load the returns on our projects and we know that the U.S.
is a large net exporter.
We expect that general environment to continue over the next several years.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about I guess 2 things one your CapEx budget sounds like it continues to be in line with your expectations that you laid out a year ago.
And I know you said that you guys had originally forecasted a lot of inflation into that budget and we've certainly seen it based on the numbers that are coming out from other people doing various things in the U.S.
but is that the case? And how close are you relative to your sort of inflation expectations so far? Vincent with respect to our expansion projects we are very comfortable with the budget that we originally put in place both the budget and the timeline.
Our progress to date is in line with our plans.
Our permits are in hand.
We're moving dirt in both locations.
And we're confident that we're going to come in in our expected range of plus or minus 10% on $3.8 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up we obviously don't know when the Mosaic deal is going to close but do you have an expectation on what you're going to do with those proceeds because it is above and beyond sort of what you'd outlined before in terms of being able to do the share repurchase and build the plants sort of with the existing balance sheet and cash flow from operations? Vincent you're right we don't know exactly when the proceeds will come in.
We expect them some time next year of course.
This inflow of funds is an additional inflow that is part of our financial planning.
We're in the midst of a $6.8 billion set of cash deployment activities $3 billion of share repurchases $3.8 billion on our capacity expansion.
We are somewhere in the let's say 20 -- 1/4 to 1/3 of the way through that if you look at that combined outflow.
So there's a lot of spending ahead of us.
And as the months and quarters roll along we will consider what other cash deployment opportunities should be put on the other end of those projects.
And I think we have a good history of making sound disciplined decisions with respect to deployment of capital.
We intend to follow that same discipline.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve just to follow-up on the Donaldsonville project and the Mosaic deal.
You've clearly derisked it as you pointed out.
Often it's the case that returns are commensurate with risk.
So in that context would it be fair to say that you've accepted a somewhat lower return than you otherwise might have penciled out or have you found a way to structure the deal to maintain the same return you would have previously expected? When we talk about the expansion projects we characterize them as having the potential to produce low- to mid-teens returns.
This arrangement with Mosaic is consistent with that objective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just to clarify on your recent share repurchase activity or lack thereof I think you indicated in your press release that you hadn't bought anything back since August 5.
And I just wanted to clarify were your negotiations with Mosaic such that you were precluded from buying back shares over that period or was it more of a tactical decision? Kevin I'll just say that we were very busy during the quarter with lots of things.
I'll let it stand at that.
Our next question comes from the line of J.P.
(sic) [P.J.] Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on Trinidad situation and natural gas there.
Can you talk about what is the latest on gas supply and what are your expectations for 2014? Tony? P.J.
there continues to be sort of an ongoing challenge in terms of gas availability in Trinidad.
We continue to have to dial back the plant to sort of minimum operating rates and a number of operators in the Point Lisas estate have had to take what otherwise would have been operating hours and take some downtime as a result of that.
We don't see any immediate relief from that situation on the horizon.
There continues to be some challenges as we go forward.
I would say overall there is some volume loss.
It's not a huge amount from our perspective.
But I think if you sum it up across all of the producers in the estate it has an impact on overall S&amp;D balances in the region.
Research Division</strong> And then second question on dealer inventories you mentioned that as being low.
Do you think dealers are delaying purchases into 4Q? Or is there a deferral into next spring? I'll ask Bert Frost to address that P.J.
For dealer inventories we have -- consistent through the third quarter we've seen a delaying in purchasing or a desire not to purchase to build inventories due to uncertainty in the pricing structure of the world market.
And we expect dealers because if the farmers will start stepping in once the harvest is complete and ammonia is applied and the P&amp;K is put down in Q4 we expect then people to step up and prepare for their spring purchases.
And so yes there has been a delay or a deferral in forward purchases.
We expect that to mitigate and get back to normal trends here in the next few weeks to month.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
First customer advances year-over-year are down quite a bit.
I'm just wondering how much of that is price versus volume or even a timing issue.
Maybe you could just tell us how you're thinking about what those customer advance numbers are telling us? And the second question is on KEYTRADE KEYTRADE was obviously a visible impact on your Phosphate business over the last couple of years.
And I'm curious with the expansion of Donaldson do you see KEYTRADE as becoming more or less strategic for your Nitrogen business? Go ahead Bert.
On the customer advances we had a very successful fall fill program for UAN.
As Dennis mentioned it was launched a little bit later than normal in mid-July.
And we built a successful build book up for the period for Q3 and Q4.
And we're executing against that.
And you saw the result of that in the Q3 performance.
Ammonia is usually is a Q4.
It was always a Q4 application.
And we have seen it -- we mentioned earlier a fairly normal application rate.
And so as we go through Q4 our advance book will decline.
But as I mentioned earlier we expect then customers will step in to prepare for spring and build those spring positions because logistically it does take a while to put everything in place by railcar barge or truck and deliver that to the terminals.
And so we're expecting a normal year in that our advancement book will build probably starting now.
Relative to KEYTRADE we have a very close relationship with KEYTRADE.
They're our partners.
We communicate daily with them.
And they have been our arm to the world on phosphates marketing our products to 20 to 30 countries throughout the year.
We also have used them on nitrogen exports.
As you saw in Q3 we exported ammonia UAN and ammonium nitrate to various countries.
And we continue to work closely with them to leverage their contacts and their offices around the world.
We think that's an advantage to our company.
And we have clear and open communication which allows us to make profitable decisions for the company.
Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Parkinson of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned for next year you expect slightly higher UAN demand and slightly lower urea.
Can you just comment on just the general fundamental drivers behind this? And also if there are any specific geographies within the U.S.
that those trends are more prevalent? Bert? Yes.
What we see is a consistent trend on UAN because it's such an easy product to use.
It's preferred we think by the farmers.
And we see just a positive trend in the growth of UAN.
So therefore that is why we have invested in future capacities in UAN.
Urea in the wheat country in the Upper Midwest the northern tier has also been growing.
South Dakota is a very large state for urea consumption.
So therefore with Port Neal being right in that central area we're -- so I don't think there's a negative towards urea but we have seen a positive on UAN.
Which geography? With split applications anymore we're seeing ammonia application in the fall or spring and then variable N applications throughout the corn growth cycle and that has been beneficial to both UAN and urea and the overall N consumption.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And just a quick follow-up and just given the changes in some of the Ukrainian natural gas contracts do you expect any changes to the seasonality of the marginal cost supplier or do you just expect it to remain China at least in the near term? Chris I think that that was a fairly minor event in the large context of global supply.
And the big gorilla here is what goes on in China and how they manage their tax policy.
Next question comes from the line of Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question on China actually.
In your prepared remarks Steve you commented that you expect the export tariff window for now policy unchanged yet Chinese urea exports down 2 million tonnes.
Maybe just give a little bit more context around why exports will be down with a similar policy and can you talk about how a widening of the window would impact your view on potential for a seasonal price increase across the complex in the spring? Adam first I'd like go back to what my comments were.
And that is for planning purposes we are assuming a continuation of current policy.
And for planning purposes we're assuming 6 million versus 8 million tonnes 6 million being roughly what we've averaged over the last few years.
It isn't a prediction on our part.
With respect to the general evolution of those policies should it be a for example some tariff on a continuing basis if it's a fixed tariff at a lower level than the non-export season and a wider window it would dampen the impact.
There would be less volatility in the flow into the marketplace.
It would move in the direction of stabilizing the market albeit at an average level that would be slightly to somewhat lower than we've seen in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just in the U.S.
in the UAN market.
I mean corn prices have moved lower and clearly the farmers should probably be tighter with their budgets.
Can you comment with UAN now at a 30% premium to ammonia and a 15-or-so percent premium to urea on equivalent nitrogen basis in the Midwest why we wouldn't see a greater switch to ammonia as you look into the spring? Bert? I think on the differentials you have to be careful at what spot in time you're taking that differential calculation.
And we're well aware of those differentials.
So what you're seeing today is ammonia that's going down in Q4 was purchased earlier in Q3 then we will roll into the spring period and we'll see what those differentials are.
But at the same time we're seeing a positive trend in urea.
Urea has moved at least $30 in the U.S.
market.
And you're seeing also the ripple effect I think we're on the backside of that but starting with the cost increases in China the freight increases in the world and moving the Ag prices up.
That has been rolled in the U.S.
and you're seeing the U.S.
now traded at $310 to $320 in NOLA for Q1.
That will have an effect on the differential.
And so I'm not sure if it's going to stay at a 30% or 15% spread.
But again going back to UAN it's an easy product to use.
It's a preferred product to use.
And so that's why we see consistent use in that product.
And it will be priced appropriately to attract demand.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Korn of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First what were the export levels of your nitrogen products that you put out for the quarter? And in general how do those margins for those sales kind of compare to say generic sale into the Midwest? The second question would be is there any encouragement on 2014 pricing that I can take looking into next year from the lower level of U.S.
imports for the major products through late summer? With respect to exports of nitrogen I'm not -- I don't believe we've quantified that.
But qualitatively Bert do you want to comment on...
We exported a vessel of ammonia in the early part of the quarter and we had some smaller vessels of ammonium nitrate throughout the quarter.
And on UAN we sent full vessels to Europe and to South America.
And for our purposes we consider Canada also an export.
So those are some of the markets we're shipping into.
And we generally ship to all the open markets.
Mexico also is one of the markets we ship to.
As we look at that as a lower higher or what level of pricing that the exports attract it's a combination of balance.
How we balance our system.
How we utilize the opportunities available to us at the time.
And when the market was slow in the United States we had attractive markets that we could export to and continue operating our plants at 100% operating rate.
So when you combine all the factors together we think it's an attractive equation.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Tiberio of Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on your comments that end distributors have been somewhat more cautious until they see where the market develops.
Obviously we've seen urea in NOLA bounce back here in the last few weeks.
Is it primarily that they're looking for the nitrogen markets to bottom and develop or is this more of a function that they're also trying to assess what happens in the potash markets as well as where corn futures potentially will bottom in the next few months? So I'm just trying to get a sense of from a timing perspective when we think about Q4 volume potential versus 2014 what else we need as far as clarity for distributors to really start coming back in in a meaningful manner? Bert? I don't think you can discount the impact of the potash debacle on the overall market for NP&amp;K.
The disruption that that caused and the -- because it was so immediate and big having an announcement -- at the time potash was probably trading at $400 to $420 to announce that it was falling to $300 anybody holding inventory positions those very quickly became negative positions.
And so with P&amp;K generally trading together and applied together that then drove distributor positions to just step out of the market and we saw this worldwide.
And then there was a carryover effect into nitrogen.
And so thankfully how we prepare for -- you can't prepare for that type of event but how we prepare for an average quarter and we did so by launching our fill program moving our products through the distribution chain and having an acceptable level of volume in Q3.
How that will play in Q4 at 92 million acres of corn we expect reasonable application rates and demand then to be -- to materialize and we're seeing that in the market today.
So distributors are coming back in.
They are buying.
And they have continued to buy.
I just think we saw that dip in August September and October.
And so that corresponded to bottom-level pricing and then now outpricing is responding.
So it's operating -- beginning to return I think to normal market decision-making and operating systems.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Gulley of BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of -- most N-P-K markets seem to be very much supply driven now.
And you've got those swing producers in the Black Sea and maybe in China.
Doesn't that put a lid on the kind of price expectations that you might be hoping for as you move into 2014? Bert? Yes it depends on the product that you're talking about.
I think when you go NP&amp;K we're operating in separate markets even though the same customer is buying all 3 products.
I think we need to see K settle out.
That will drive a little bit of K -- of P.
As we mentioned earlier India is going to -- is and has been a big driver in P demand and then market structure.
And then now moving to nitrogen.
And so yes some of these swing producers and tax subsidies from India and tax costs from China have a heavy impact on the market as well as gas cost coming out of Russia and that drive the Ukrainian and Russian producer as well as the Eastern European.
And so I think -- again our mantra of higher highs and higher lows was represented in this quarter.
And you're seeing once the low or the floor level has hit in China reduced -- product was not shipped to the ports reduced supply at the ports which now represents reduced supplies to India and Pakistan and those who are coming in with tenders right now.
And you're seeing the market respond up.
I think we're in a favorable market trend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And as my follow-up Steve on the capital allocation decision you mentioned that you're at 1/3 or 1/4 of the way through deploying all that cash.
How should we think about share repurchases given the fact that we seem to be kind of more towards the low of earnings and of course your CapEx is ramping up quite a bit next year.
Maybe you can tell us a little bit about how that CapEx will scale during the year? I think you said you gave us a number for the year.
I'll make a comment on share repurchases and ask Tony to comment on CapEx.
We have basically 2/3 of our share repurchase authorization ahead of us.
As we have in the past we intend to be able to look back on the share repurchase program with a certain degree of pride.
I think we've done a good job of buying shares back in the past and we intend to try to do the same going forward.
On the CapEx for next year we are expecting to spend in the neighborhood of about $2 billion on the capacity expansion projects.
We are call it about 3/4 of the way through the engineering and procurement phases on those projects.
And the amount of money that we've spent year-to-date doesn't reflect the full amount of the commitments that have been made.
So we've got a number of vessels that are being fabricated on order that we've got commitments outstanding and we began construction activities at both locations in October.
And invoicing on that activity hasn't rolled through the P&amp;L yet -- or the balance sheet yet.
So as we look at next year we'll have a full year of construction activity at both locations we'll be winding up the engineering and procurement activities.
And if you think about sort of the second and third quarters that's where we're going to be at the peak cash flow out next year.
And Mark just to tie those 2 subjects together yes we have a large amount of CapEx next year.
But that particular timing doesn't have any impact on how we might or might not repurchase shares.
We've got plenty of cash.
We've got expectations for good cash flow from the operations.
And we have significant debt capacity available to us.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
You gave some guidance that you expect U.S.
nitrogen demand to be down about 1.5% next year.
Could you talk about where you see your demand being down? Would you be in line with the market? Would you hold share and importers would get displaced? I think our numbers on nitrogen demand are 13.5 million nutrient tons in 2013 and 13.3 million nutrient tons in 2014.
That's a very modest drop.
In terms of the impact on us we expect that we'll be running flat out as far as the eye can see.
Perfect.
On UAN prices it seems in the last few months that you were able to hold your prices while importers did undercut for a while.
Prices starting to rebound.
Could you talk about what happened in the quarter and how you were able to hold that against some seems like a lower cost product coming from some global competitors? Bert? As I said earlier we launched our fill program a little later and I think what we were able to capture was the tail end due to late planting of crop this year.
There was a longer tail to the season.
And so we captured a significant amount of in-season demand during that period and then launched our fill program which was well received by our customers.
But you also have to remember we have our whole infrastructure system which can also leverage where we put product and when we put it there along with our logistical options.
And so yes imported product did come in.
And yes I think with the other competitors in the market sold at levels we would probably believe to be unattractive.
But that's just how the market works and we believe that we were able to select better options for our product and move it consistently and ratably through the market.
Okay.
And finally on your nitrogen expansion CapEx how for the remaining expansion CapEx in '15 and '16 how would you expect that to scale relatively between '15 and '16? Well at the end of 2014 we'll have approximately $1 billion left of spend and much of that will get spent in '15 with a little bit of tail that will fold over into '16.
But by the time we finish calendar year '15 our expectation is that we'll have 2 of the major operating units up online and most of the mechanical work done on the other units.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Picken of Cleveland Research.
Just a quick question.
With respect to your phosphate agreement with Mosaic assuming the transaction closes if there are I guess some issues with the Point Lisas nitrogen issue would you supply ammonia from Donaldsonville or how would that sort of work out or would you have sufficient supply? I'm not sure I understood your question Mike.
We have 2 separate agreements one with respect to Point Lisas one with respect to Donaldsonville.
And once the transaction is done we expect both of those contracts to be enforced.
Yes.
I guess I was just asking like if there's any sort of hiccups in terms of Trinidad in 2014 being able to supply Florida.
Would the infrastructure in place in Donaldsonville...
I understand.
Tony? Actually because of the Jones Act you can't ship within the U.S.
unless you've got a Jones Act registered vessel.
And so part of the announcement I think that Mosaic indicated is that they were in the process of building Jones Act vessels to move product from Donaldsonville to Florida.
And the D-ville portion of the contract doesn't go live until we get into calendar year '16 or the absolute latest at the beginning of '17.
So if there are issues in terms of Trinidadian production we would -- there's a force majeure kind of clause relative to gas availability there.
Okay.
Great.
And then as we sort of think about the longer term the thought process behind signing a 15-year supply agreement.
If the U.S.
is expected to remain a net importer I guess just trying to understand a little bit more of the dynamics understand that you don't want to give out the specific terms of the deal but could you kind of walk us through sort of the thought process behind wanting to have a 15-year supply agreement? It's very simple Mike.
It's attractive economically to us and it takes risk out of our Donaldsonville project with respect to volatility in natural gas prices.
Before we complete our call today Steve and Tony have some closing remarks.
Steve? Thanks Dan.
This is my 33rd and final quarterly conference call as CEO of CF Industries.
Before we wrap up I'd like to share a few thoughts in particular with our shareholders.
It's been a distinct privilege to serve in this position for the past 10 years 8 of which have been since we became a public company.
I've had the honor to work with and for a Board of Directors that has been both challenging and supportive.
And I've been very fortunate to be able to surround myself with a leadership team that is smart hard working and usually fun to be around.
The entire CF Industries team has rallied around our focus on building sustainable value for our owners.
It's great to be leaving on my own schedule and to turn the baton over to someone I recruited and have had a hand in developing.
I know Tony and his team will lead the company to more successes in the years ahead.
Tony? Thanks Dan.
I'd like to take this opportunity to recognize Steve Wilson on his illustrious career and many accomplishments at CF.
First on behalf of the employees of CF Industries I'd like to thank Steve for creating a culture focused on safety environmental stewardship and absolute uncompromising ethical standards.
Actually with respect to safety and environmental I think it might be more appropriate to broaden this group.
So on behalf of the employees and their families the contractors that work at our facilities and the communities in which we operate Steve we'd like to thank you for always placing a particular emphasis on safety and environmental stewardship which has been translated into a focus on ensuring that everyone leaves our facilities in the same condition in which they arrived and that we are trusted good neighbors.
On the ethical behavior front a few lines that sum up Steve's philosophy include: We are going to do things the right way and we are going to do what we say and we're not going to say it until we're ready.
He has created a culture with ethical standards that are a very bright line.
Steve has always treated the company's shareholders resources as though they were his own and given his Pennsylvania Dutch tendencies those resources were never in safer hands.
Next I'd like to thank Steve on behalf of CF Industries' shareholders.
Steve led the launch of CF Industries as a public company 8 years ago.
The company IPO-ed at a stock price of $16 and a market cap of $880 million.
At the close of business yesterday the stock price was $217.63 and a market cap of over $12.4 billion.
This represents an increase in market capitalization of over 13x and a share price compound annual increase of 38.5% per year over the past 8 years.
Again the shareholders' resources were never in better hands.
Finally I'd like to offer my personal thanks to Steve.
He has created an outstanding company with a terrific culture and a strong leadership team.
He's been a demanding boss a patient mentor and a good friend.
I wish you all the best in retirement.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Operator that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CF Industries' fourth quarter earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Dan Swenson.
You may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I am Dan Swenson Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And with me are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its fourth quarter 2013 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news release that's posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time-to-time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to be with you today and honored to have the opportunity to take over the leadership of CF Industries from Steve Wilson.
Steve left an exceptional legacy of creating shareholder value one that I am fully committed to build upon.
I'll come back to the topic of just how we intend to continue creating shareholder value later in the call.
But first I want to review our fourth quarter and full year results.
We Generated $643 million of EBITDA in the quarter representing 48% of our revenues.
This capped the year in which we generated $2.7 billion of EBITDA or 49% of our full year revenues.
These results highlight the cash flow generation capability of our business even during difficult market conditions.
During the fourth quarter our view of the global urea supply curve was yet again validated.
In October urea price has bottomed out at the global floor based on the level where marginal producers were estimated to be breakeven on a cash cost basis.
In this case that was Chinese anthracite coal-based production.
This forced even higher cost producers in Europe and other regions to take downtime.
Prices began to recover after the Chinese low-tariff export window closed and global supply tightened as demand emerged.
Prices continue to move up in December as the market needed to bid some of the high cost European production back online to meet global demand requirements.
This quarter again demonstrated that the nitrogen industry continues to be driven by free market economics where cash cost forced all market participants to make rational economic business decisions.
CF Industries is able to generate significant amount of sustainable cash flows due to three factors.
The first the structural cost advantage we enjoyed based on North American natural gas cost compared to hydrocarbon feedstock cost in other production regions of the world.
The second our expensive network of production logistical and distribution assets which create synergies and opportunities for us that no other nitrogen company enjoys.
And the third our experienced and high-performing team.
Several people have commented in the past that we are the best nitrogen operators in the world and that was demonstrated again this quarter as we performed extremely well in difficult market conditions and still generated $643 million of EBITDA.
2013 began with a cold wet spring over much in North America which led to delayed planting and application season.
These conditions proved difficult for ammonia but favored our upgraded products.
The delayed planting in turn led to a late harvest which shortened the fall ammonia application season.
As a result ammonia sales volumes and prices for 2013 were significantly lower than 2012 levels.
2013 certainly had its share of challenges.
A difficult ammonia market because of weather a difficult urea environment in the second half of the year and particularly in the fourth quarter when the Chinese low-tariff export window was open and the result in price pressure on UAN given where ammonia and urea were trading.
However despite all of that our team here at CF Industries was still able to deliver $2.7 billion of EBITDA for the year our third best year ever.
As I mentioned at the start of the call we are committed to driving long-term shareholder value which we measure in terms of total shareholder return.
Our approach to this is really pretty simple.
We are focused on maximizing the cash flow generation capabilities per share of stock while we seek to lower the cost of financing the enterprise.
The strategic decisions we make are governed by that framework.
We invest in projects to grow our cash flow generation when those projects have return profiles well above our cost of capital while we actively reduce our share count.
So now I'd like to highlight some of the key strategic accomplishments in both the fourth quarter and for all of 2013.
In terms of growing our cash flow generation capability in April we completed the acquisition of Viterra's interest in our Medicine Hat facility which increased our cash flow capacity by retaining 270 000 tons of net ammonia and 275 000 tons of urea that previously went to our former partner.
During the year we completed or approved high-return projects to add approximately 100 000 tons of ammonia capacity across our system.
All of this additional production volume will be online in 2014.
We've also made great progress on our expansion projects in Louisiana and Iowa which together increase our production capacity by 25% when they will be completed in 2015 and 2016.
During the year permits were issued and significant progress was made on civil construction at both sites.
By the end of 2013 general construction contracts were in place for four of the five production plants and work had been started under lump sum turn-key contracts for supporting infrastructure including urea warehouses and ammonia storage tanks at both locations.
We're very confident in our teams that are executing these projects which continue to be on schedule and on budget.
In addition to the deployment of capital to increase our long-term cash flow generation we repurchased over 7 million shares during the year representing 12% of our shares outstanding at the beginning of 2013.
This reduction in share count increased the cash flow generation on a per share basis to our remaining stockholders.
Additionally we increased our dividend 150% to $1 per share per quarter.
We also sharpened our focus on reducing our cost of capital during 2013 a key step of which was our inaugural issuance of investment grade debt.
Maintaining our investment grade rating is a critical element of our financing strategy as it gives us access to exceptionally low cost long-term capital while also allowing us the flexibility to pursue value-creating initiatives.
Other key accomplishments during the quarter were the strategic agreements we executed with the Mosaic Company.
We are selling our phosphate business in order to redeploy that capital in ways that will create more value for CF shareholders than if we had continued to hold and operate that business.
Additionally we have put in place ammonia supply agreement which provide long-term steady demand for a financially strong customer.
The ammonia has been priced with a defined margin that supports our belief in the mid-teens return profile for the capacity expansion projects.
I am now going to turn the call over to Bert to provide a deeper discussion of the nitrogen market conditions and our operations during the quarter.
Bert? Thanks Tony.
Global nitrogen market condition is challenging during the fourth quarter.
The industry had to deal with declining corn prices unfavorable regional weather conditions in North America and excess global nitrogen supply.
These factors were all weighing on nitrogen prices as they hit the floor in the October time period.
The ammonia market had a difficult set of dynamics during the quarter as the late North American harvest and early cold weather resulted in a short fall application season.
Inventory carryover from the spring and high production levels contributed to elevated industry-wide inventory and led to a weak ammonia pricing environment.
Coming into the quarter the global urea market saw prices under pressure from a significant level of Chinese urea exports during their low tariff export season.
The price pressure from the high level of urea supply had an impact on the UAN market as well.
Urea and UAN prices at the U.S.
Gulf found a floor in October and moved in a narrow band through November as buyers sat on the sidelines waiting to take inventory positions.
Then during December seasonal events started to emerge.
The close of the low-tariff Chinese export window and gas curtailments in areas like Libya Egypt and Pakistan limited available supply.
Given the tightening of the global supply demand situation and grower and retailer recognition of their low inventory positions prices started moving up.
This was evidenced as average urea prices at the U.S.
Gulf increased from $285 in October to nearly $330 in December and as high as $425 in late January.
We operated well in this changing environment by managing our order book to maximize the pricing options available to us.
The decisions we made were supported by data-driven analysis of agricultural and fertilizer business trends the evaluation of global market conditions and the excise of management discretion.
We believe that these are part of the operational excellence that continues to differential CF Industries from our competitors.
Recognize that the weak market situation in October/November did not reflect the value of our products and the ultimate demand we were confident of seeing but we chose to be conservative with our order books during that time.
In anticipation of conditions for more favorable pricing our teams positioned our inventory and logistical assets for what was a record selling December as we made sales into recovering markets.
We utilized exports to manage our inventory levels and to take advantage of sales opportunities with attractive netback pricing.
This included exporting ammonia to Morocco ammonium nitrate to Central and South America UAN to Argentina and Urea to Chile.
As we move into 2014 we have seen pricing conditions continue to improve.
Demand for nitrogen continues to be strong with high acres planted globally.
We expect planting of 92 million acres of corn in North America will support the need to import a significant amount of nitrogen in order to meet spring demand.
In that environment we will operate our plant to full capacity and so all of our production.
The timing of these sales will be driven by opportunities to maximize our margins.
Since July North America has had lower imports of urea compared to last year contributing to tight regional markets.
This situation has been reflected in U.S.
Gulf prices for urea which have rebounded to around $420 a ton recently from the October 2013 average of about $285.
UAN demand is also expected to be strong.
With reduced import and inventory relative to last year UAN prices will likely have to move up in order to attract imports to satisfy overall demand.
The strength urea and UAN should also have a beneficial impact on ammonia demand as buyers recognize the compelling value ammonia provides to them.
Due to oversupply ammonia prices are much lower per pound at end so on a value basis ammonia should have a robust spring consumption weather permitting.
Looking forward into 2014 we expect to see a less volatile pricing environment due to the change in the Chinese urea export tariff policy.
With a change in the tariff policy to reduce the export tariff during the high season we expect to see more Chinese product come on to the global market in the November to June time period when price is supported.
For the full year we expect about 8 million tons of exports which is similar to last year.
While this supply may reduce some of the peaks in urea prices we believe we also be conducive to more ratable purchasing and a greater pricing efficiency across the market.
We've seen some evidence of this already with the increase in prices fall in the October close of the low-tariff season and with Chinese producers appearing to maximize their profits across domestic and export sales.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Bert and good morning everyone.
Our financial results for the quarter and full year demonstrate the robust cash generation capacity of our business as measured by EBITDA.
During the quarter it was characterized by very difficult market conditions.
We generated $643 million of EBITDA which was 48% of our $1.3 billion of revenue.
For the year we generated $24.74 of earnings per share and $2.7 billion of EBITDA which was 49% of our $5.5 billion of revenue.
This level of earnings was in part attributable to the enduring structural advantage provided by low-cost North American natural gas.
We've been watching the gas market very closely given the exceptionally cold winter weather we've experienced in North America and are encouraged by the relatively stable nature of the natural gas forward curve even with several recent weeks of record gas storage withdrawals.
We are actively managing our near-term risk exposure to natural gas prices.
We have hedged approximately 75% of our first quarter NYMEX exposure and 50% of our second quarter NYMEX exposure at prices well below $4 per MMBtu.
Our plants are primarily in gas producing regions which over time helps minimize the impact on our business of differentials to NYMEX prices.
We are using the cash generated by our business on a select use strategic priority.
We spent $129 million of cash on our capital expansion projects during the quarter which bought our total cash capital expenditures on the project to $356 million for the year.
We accrued an additional $204 million at yearend bringing our total investment in the projects during 2013 to $560 million.
We also had $468 million of capital expenditures during 2013 for items other than our capital expansion projects.
These expenditures that provided approximately 100 000 tons of incremental ammonia production capacity additional transportation logistics infrastructure expanded storage capacity and most importantly has help maintained the safe operating condition of our assets.
We returned $395 million to shareholders during the quarter through dividends and the repurchase of 1.5 million shares at an average price of $223 per share.
Our financial objectives in 2014 will be focused on closing the phosphate sale putting in place lower cost capital in the form of long-term debt and continuing to return cash to shareholders by our repurchases and dividend.
We expect to close the sale of phosphate business some time in the first half of 2014 and to realize approximately $1 billion of proceeds net of tax.
We also intend to raise up to $1.5 billion of additional debt in early 2014.
We are focused on realizing the lowest cost of capital for the overall enterprise while maintaining our commitment to investment grade credit metrics.
We believe this approach provides us with several significant benefits and a superior hand to execute a variety of strategic initiative on a timeframe that we can manage.
It allows us to pay dividend buyback shares deploy cash towards growth opportunities all without significant restrictions and it allows us ready access to long-term financing for the capital markets.
Therefore we are fully committed to maintaining an investment-grade credit metrics.
We are making progress in our evaluation of optimizing the capital structure of the company including how MLPs might fit within that framework.
Early indication suggests that the sale of existing operating assets to an MLP does not look terribly compelling to other alternatives such as additional low cost debt.
Our existing assets have low tax bases which would create tax leakage significantly reducing the net proceeds realized from selling them to an MLP.
Additionally the cash flows from these operating assets support CFs investment-grade metrics and our current and planned borrowings.
However our analyses are not complete and we continue to evaluate alternative funding options for the company.
Another of our key objective is to continue to buyback shares and return cash to shareholders.
To that end through Friday we have purchased approximately 700 000 shares at an average price of $230 per share for a total of a $162 million since the beginning of the year.
We currently have approximately 55 million shares outstanding and $1.4 billion of remaining repurchase authorization.
In addition we will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of our dividend level overtime.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
We recently announced entering into a long-term agreement with Orica to be their primary external supplier in North America for industrial-grade ammonium nitrate and AN solutions.
This agreement will provide an off-take for about 70% to 80% of the AN production from our Yazoo City complex and shifts our customer base more heavily towards industrial AN and away from agricultural AN.
The agreement is structured in a somewhat similar way to the Mosaic Ammonia Supply Agreement and that we have a defined margin structure with an attractive return profile and a steady long-term customer that is a leader its industry.
This agreement will help us to realize significant value from our Yazoo City complex.
I also want to provide some insight into other work we are currently doing.
We realized a significant premium per unit of nitrogen for urea compared to ammonia particularly in the regions served by our Medicine Hat facility combined with a difficult ammonia market conditions presented by the shortened application season this year.
This helps us evaluating options for upgrading more of our ammonia at Medicine Hat.
It is early stages at this point but as our analysis progresses we will provide you updates.
I would like to thank all our employees especially our sales sales support and logistics team for doing a truly great job in December.
Their efforts allowed us to end the year on a high note.
With that we will now open the line to answer your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
I think I just heard Dennis make a comment about not dropping down existing plants into an MLP which I assume meant TNH.
You didn't mention anything about what you might do MLP-wise with the two new facilities or if you're not going to do additional dropdowns into TNH what why you might do with the general partner interest there or with the substantial amount of common units that you'll miss.
So maybe you could give us some preliminary thoughts on how you're thinking about all those things.
What I would point out is in our prepared remarks what I stated was our analyses is going to be a detailed analysis that we're doing is not yet complete.
If you go back to what we've talked about in the past we are doing a detailed analysis that will involve looking at everything on an asset-by-asset basis and looking at all the options potential contract structures and the like that one produce to do an MLP.
So what I've given today is really just a preliminary view of kind of where we come out on some of the existing assets.
We will of course be looking at all of those things over time.
With respect to the assets that we're building at this point in time again that will be part of the analysis as well.
When we'll have our conclusions later in the year we'll conclusions at least on a preliminary basis on those.
But I think it's worth pointing out that with respect to the new assets there isn't anything to do with those things until sometime in 2016 or 2017 when they're completed.
So it would be difficult to have a final conclusion on those until such time as they're right to be sold to an MLP if that were an option we wanted to pursue.
The other thing that I would throw in there Vincent is relative to the TNH position that we currently hold we've got much lower cost ways currently of generating additional liquidity into business.
And in particular we're talking about raising $1.5 billion of additional debt here in the short term which the cost of which is pretty minor on an after-tax basis.
First us to sell additional TNH units we're really selling cash flow from the C Corp shareholders.
So we're absolutely looking at that like any other divestiture and can we realize more value by selling that cash flow out in the market versus keeping it for our shareholders.
And right now as we look at on a net realized cash basis the answer is no.
It makes sense for us to keep that cash flow and deploy it against our business priorities.
So where we stand today we have no real interest in selling TNH units in the market.
And as a follow-up I'm not sure what your goal is but any idea how much of your volume do you think you could transition into the type of structure that you've done with Mosaic and with Orica? I think where we are with that I would carry on with what Dennis presented relative to MLP.
We are looking at various options for our product flows and again to maximize the return to the corporation over time.
And so yes there are opportunities out there for us but we have to still review those and come to a conclusion with the management team the direction that we will go.
But I would just say more as it develops.
Vincent from a philosophical standpoint aligning our production with leaders in the industry spaces that they occupy that are high-credit longstanding strong participants in their industry to us makes great business sense and we're really walking up from strategic partnerships.
And so as Bert said we'll have to evaluate these on a case-by-case basis.
But where we've got those kind of intersections of interest and value delivery that we can provide I think it's a win-win for both sides.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions first of all on ammonia I think you indicated that you ran at an operating rate of 107% so it's not often we see rates that high.
Can you comment on why you ran so hard and how the incremental 100 tons is factoring into that calculation? And also why you would have run that hard when it sounds like producer inventory of ammonia is a bit elevated? And then secondly just wondering if you could comment on inventory levels for UAN solutions and urea please? So I'll take the first part of that Kevin and then I'll turn it over to Bert.
So when we report ammonia capacity we do it on an average over the cycle.
And by a cycle it's usually a four-year cycle because most of our ammonia plants are on a four year turnaround cycle which means that you sort of have one week outage per year.
And so that's factored into the average capacity numbers that we report.
And so in a quarter when we don't have significant downtime or turnaround activity and we're able to run at something above 100%.
But it's also true that some of the debottleneck projects that are adding 100 000 tons of ammonia capacity were completed during the year and some of that additional capacity is showing up in our production numbers.
In terms of why we would want to do that even though producer inventories are historically a bit higher than they've been in the last couple of years the margin structure that's available to us is still extraordinary.
When our cash cost of ammonia production is in the neighborhood of $150 to $170 basis on a Gulf basis and we're selling product in the interior north of 500 we want to produce every ton we possibly can because we're very comfortable that those tons will eventually find their way to ground.
And when they do we will have made great margin as a result of that.
Relative to the inventory position I'll turn that over to Bert.
First the CFs we ended up the year as we mentioned in our release as well as during this discussion ammonia was challenged throughout the fourth quarter I'd say really challenged since the start of the fertilizer year.
We did well in terms of moving our product and recognize the difficult environment that we entered in November and that's why you saw us export ammonia in the fourth quarter.
We ended the quarter or ended 2013 relatively solid on our inventory levels for ammonia but probably higher than we would prefer.
For urea and UAN they were both below our three-year average and again we think we managed that well through various options that are available to us in order to end up in an acceptable position to start 2014.
And then as a follow-up if I may on natural gas do you have any hedges in place for the back half of the year? And then I just had I guess a clarification your press release indicates you've got exposure to floating basis differentials for gas at some production points so wondering if you could just elaborate and explain what the impact of that or implication could be? With respect to the hedges that we've got on Kevin what we explained in the press release was we had the first quarter hedged at 75% and second quarter hedged at 50% and that's the best that's our disclosure that we have.
With respect to basis differentials really that affects us principally and this is only a time that two plants that there is in Iowa and also at our Courtright plant in Canada.
We've got some hedging with respect to basis differentials at the Canada plant.
But at the end of day this isn't a big deal for us because over time like I've said in the prepared remarks our plants really sit in gas producing regions.
And so basis differentials as a rule generally don't terribly out of line and so consequently although yes this does affect our results to a degree but the affect on our results is not gigantic by any means.
Kevin the mechanisms around basis differential is the NYMEX is basically priced at Henry Hub.
So when we're buying gas we're buying it at the Hub and to the extent there is transportation differences that then swapped out for gas delivered into Port Neal Iowa.
There is basically transportation cost is not hedged that's what the basis differential is.
Our next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
A question for Bert.
Bert you talked about strong outlook this spring especially for urea and UAN.
So I'm wondering why you were so active in export market in the fourth quarter when you have been better off sort of inventorying that product and selling it into the domestic market especially given the potential for logistical constraints and how that works to your advantage? And next one longer-term question.
Slide 9 you've got your projection of the North American nitrogen import situations through 2018.
How many new greenfield plants and/or major brownfield expansions are you putting into that supply demand and import balance outlook.
Regarding the spring outlook obviously today it's fairly rosy.
We were pretty confident in what we had positioned and what we believe will materialize through the second quarter.
The high insight is 2020.
We did not have that view in the fourth quarter which was a fairly challenging environment where you saw urea I think in the releases at $275 maybe $285 for an average.
But the floor was fairly low.
And with the outlook that continued production would be coming to the United States.
And so you have taken balance that's what we do at least is balance our options and so during that time period in order to be prudent with our order book we've decided to export through key train through to a number of countries throughout South America Central America and Europe to move our products on I would say judicious spaces which allowed us to maintain our inventory levels through an acceptable position but during that time period also building inventory to allow us to capture the December increase as well as the Q1 pricing environment that we have today.
So when you look at the exports and how we acted in the market it was with that intent to balance the options available to the company and position it in what we thought would be the best position.
Regarding the greenfield and brownfield Don on the new plants what we're assuming is that there is basically four new greenfield plants and including in that are the projects at Port Neil and Donaldsonville that we're doing even though those are brownfield.
And then we've got several capacity expansion projects embedded in there from the majors.
It's principally Agrium PCS Koch that have announced and we believe those are real projects that are moving forward.
Most of the other projects that have been talked about at this point we don't see having any sort of significant production volume even if were they to occur in the 2018 time horizon.
So if they show up their impact is really going to be '19 and beyond.
I wanted just to follow up on that.
You show about 5 million nutrient tons of net import demand in North America in 2018.
How would you see that unfolding by 2020? Do you think it goes away by then or do you think that we remain -- our North America remains a net nitrogen importer? We believe it will be remained a net nitrogen importer.
I think what you've seen are the people that are already in this business that have assets and networks that they can leverage to get the most bang for new steel in the ground are the ones most likely to make investments.
And you've seen projects cancelled by a number of those participants.
So our view is while there maybe a one or more projects that eventually show up it's a pretty long thought for a lot of new entrants to get there.
And so we believe North America will continue to be a nitrogen import region for the foreseeable future.
Our next question comes from Matthew Korn of Barclays.
I'll ask a little bit of I guess a market question.
I'm just wondering if farmers given the turn that we've seen in expected income levels go into next year is there anything behaviorally changing as to how they're buying? Are they being more aggressive on last $5 $10 a ton are they being more discretionary in winter purchases at all that you can tell.
It's an interesting question because yes that has taken place with buyer behavior.
We see the farmer behavior representing the retailer ability or desire to take positions.
And so what you have is the market is operating today with a very short cycle.
The farmers have not stepped-in.
And for fall I'd think they've bought a portion of their requirements but there's still a high percentage still to be purchased.
And what has happened as the retailers are backing up they haven't been buying as much as what we've seen in the past.
And so we believe that that will show itself or materialize in a very active April -- maybe March and April period when people will have to stepped-in and cover their spring requirements.
Part of that behavior is represented in risk.
Again there's both farmer and retailer are not desiring to take on a tremendous amount of risk and we happened to participate in very volatile market these days with the urea prices spiking $50 a week at times.
And so we understand that and that's why we're preparing the way that we do to utilize our inventory space as I mentioned earlier our export options and the various methods that we come to the market.
Following-up for Dennis back in December you put out a really nice chart kind of outlining over 2014 2016 your kind of available capital versus your expected uses of capital.
And if I read that correctly that implied maybe around like $2 billion and $2.5 billion in capital above and beyond your current commitments.
It talks a little bit about the opportunity maybe to do some upgrading at Medicine Hat when do you think we'd hear more over the course of the year about whether we would see a lift in repurchase expectations or any other type of growth investment? I would say again the framework that we used is to the extent that we've got projects that return well above our cost of capital than we're interested in deploying cash against those.
And to the extent we don't we're focused on returning cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
And as mentioned we're still sort of early stages on the Medicine Hat analysis but we will be providing regular updates to that on calls as we go and I don't want to put a time horizon on it or a definitive decision on that.
But we should be able to make some pretty significant progress on that during the course of the year.
And your next question comes from PJ Juvekar of Citi.
Your customer advances on the balance sheet were much lower than last year.
I was wondering if you could explain that part of that could be price of urea and other products so can you break down the decline with how much is lower volume versus how much is lower price? PJ we usually don't get into disclosing kind of what we have in terms of volumes in respect of our customer advances.
But I would say this year that we have a significantly lower volume in terms of our forward pricing program which generates the customer advances than we've had in previous years.
And obviously you've got price pressure too this year versus in the end of year last year.
Bert if you've got anything more you want to add in terms of color on the market.
I think it's both Dennis.
I think what you've seen is just to take ammonia for example we were last year around the $700 level and that is today around the $500 level.
And that's representing each of the products.
As well as volume is probably a little bit lower but not much as compared to previous years.
You have to prepare for spring ammonia by pre-purchasing or pre-allocating where those tons will go.
And that takes time for us as well as the other producers.
And so in order to prepare for that we have to sell.
And I think we are adequately positioned on our order book with UAN and urea.
But there is a reflection as I said earlier that customers have been hesitated to take I would say three to four months out forward positions.
And we're okay with where the market is today in relative to that decision.
And PJ part of that too is was a very conscious decision that Bert and his team used to manage our forward order book to the extent that we believe we're moving into a period of relative strength our appetite for taking on a lot of forward orders is diminished.
And when we find levels that we're very happy with in terms of our margins that are available to us then we'll go ahead and take more of that.
So as we were coming out of the pretty difficult environment in the fourth quarter moving into what we expected to be a brighter spring it's not surprising that our forward order book would be lower.
And then secondly the Chinese exported over 8 million tons of urea last year.
So Tony when you look at 2014 given the changes in tariff structure how much export do you expect? And then is there a bottleneck in port and can they export more from their existing infrastructure? Yes.
We're expecting somewhere in the same zip code about 8 million tons again.
I would say to the extent that prices on the global market rise significantly above what their other alternatives are you'll see them find ways to get around port congestion and so forth and that those tons will find their way out in the market.
As Bert mentioned in his prepared remarks that may put out a little bit of a feeling just on how high urea prices rise during the year but even with that out there we're still generating the huge amount of cash based on our business model with the advantages that we have.
So we feel very comfortable with the marketplace and the environment we're operating in.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Maybe first Bert if you could reflect on the recent move in urea prices UAN has moved up as well maybe not as quickly and narrowed some of that premium that you saw really developed over 2013.
Can you give us some thoughts on how do you think that's going to play out over 2014? And why does any premium UAN can carryover urea as you go into the spring? I think where we are today relative to the imports that have come in the demand we expect from 92 million acres of corn as well as the other feed grains and fiber we are expecting healthy demand and that needs to be met by a combination of imports and domestically produced products.
So urea prices today is as I mentioned around $420 for spot products even getting as high as $430.
And you can read different industry projections or predictions but we do see a healthy urea environment and if are under -- continue under the import level we could even see a spike.
UAN will accompany that.
They do trade in relation to each other but at times they separated.
As you mentioned last year that was the case where urea or UAN traded at a healthy premium.
We expect those premiums to be maintained.
I won't give you an exact range but UAN is a preferred product.
It's a great product for corn and we're expecting demand to be solid.
Adam the one other thing I would add there is we're expecting robust demand on ammonia.
But the key there is weather permitting to the extent that we have a spring like we had last year.
It's going to diminish the number of tons that can actually hit the ground before the farmers want to get in the field.
If that were to occur the value of our credit product system is that much higher.
And so you'd see in that case the premium for UAN spike even higher.
So we're well-positioned whichever way the weather takes the spring application season.
And if you look at last year at the end of 2013 in Q4 for what the industry or the TFI or the industry projections came out and how much reduced the ammonia application was there is a significant amount that needs to be made up in the spring.
And I think that's difficult to do because you have logistical complications and we know how our assets run and how hard our distribution assets run during the application period.
And it's a matter of days to dump those and to try to fill as much as you can for the second round.
But I think it's going to be a challenge to meet the ammonia demand this spring.
And maybe on Tony's point you've had two consecutive disappointing ammonia application seasons in the Midwest.
If the weather doesn't cooperate in the next couple of months how does the distribution chain really handle that as you get into the summer? I mean is it really product has to stay at the Gulf and they'll will be exported because there is just no room in the Midwest anymore to take additional tons? Or can you talk through on kind of the applications if you have a third consecutive disappointing ammonia season? I think you have taken a relative sense.
We will have an ammonia season and it's difficult it's in the margin of how much is not applied.
So if we were to take let's say the ammonia market for the year there is 4 million tons to 4.5 million tons and if 10% of that is not applied that's 400 000 tons but that represents a lot of urea and UAN on an end-basis.
And so if we don't have specifically looking at CF Industries if we are unable to maximize ammonia applications you're exactly right we will make decisions to balance our system.
And in sometimes that's bringing product in from the north and that's one of reasons why we're looking at Medicine Hat for upgrades because that difficulties tend to happen in the Dakotas or Canada for ammonia applications on limited season.
And then we rebalance.
We can bring product into the Gulf or we can bring product up through the pipe or we can export it but the goal for us is to maintain a balance.
We're not having to dump product at an uneconomical way.
Adam that's one of the huge benefits that we have with our network having Donaldsonville where it is because we can export ammonia out of D'ville in a way that very few of our competitors have the option of being able to do.
And given where North American gas cost is we can do that very profitably and still make good margin on that those export tons.
So again we've got some levers and some flexibility that other people just don't have.
Our next question comes from the Tim Tiberio of Miller Tabak.
I just circle back through the long-term supply outlook.
I believe Pemex announced that they are looking to restart a brownfield site in Mexico over the next two years.
I just wanted to get a sense of whether that is factored into your North American import and supply outlook? Generally speaking even though from a geographic perspective Mexico is part of North America.
When we talk about North America we're principally talking U.S.
and Canada.
And the Pemex project those tons will likely stay in Mexico and really be kicking out imports in Mexico from other areas.
So we don't see that project having a real significant S&amp;D impact on the U.S.
and Canada.
We maybe should be able a little more precise when we say North America and talk about U.S.
and Canada.
Tim the other thing I'd point out is globally if you look at the long-term mix and you see it growing at about 2% per year.
And so globally you're going to need we believe between 4% and 5% among the urea complexes to be built every year just to keep up the demand.
So while PMX maybe doing that other people will shutdown some other stuff will get build.
We tend to take a look at these types of things and put them in the global context.
And then secondly can you disclose the net volume increase from this or supply agreement from Orica I believe if I'm correct they were an existing customer? They are our current customer.
We have an agreement with them that is winding up sort of back-to-back with when the new one kicks off.
And as we mentioned in the press release that the new agreement will consume about 70% to 80% of Yazoo City total production capacity which is ballpark about 1 million tons of ammonium nitrate and that is up substantially.
And with this agreement we're moving more focused on the industrial AN segment and more away from the agricultural land segment.
So this is a pretty significant increase in terms of the volume that we'll be supplying to them going forward.
But the terms the details of the existing contract are confidential.
So we can't really get into the volumes and so forth of the existing one.
Well as far as magnitude to could you at least give us some perspective of whether this is double volumes or some type of range so we can at least get a sense of magnitude? Yes.
It's in that range.
Our next question comes from Chris Parkinson of Credit Suisse.
Just very quickly you recently executed some longer-term deals for both ammonia and a substantial portion of your nitrate production.
Do you have any general long-term goals regarding your ideal mix of contract versus spot cargos or these simply are opportunistic? I would say these are more opportunistic.
We had the chance to be able to align ourselves with some long-term agreements with defined margins irrespective of where gas is traded and with some real industry leaders in the segment that they're in.
And when we climb those kind of situations it's really a marriage made in heaven because it's a win-win for both us as a supplier and our customer having guaranteed reliable supply.
And so if we find more opportunities like that we will execute them but otherwise we feel very comfortable with our ability to participate in the spot market and take advantage of that.
And just a quick derivative question on that if all these contracts have defined margins independent of net gas cost longer volatility of cash flows et cetera.
Will this eventually or potentially have any varying on your thought of let's say putting out a more decisive payout ratio for your dividend going forward.
I understand certainly but just any general thoughts as how you may think about that would be appreciated? I think we are constantly evaluating our dividend and it's certainly something.
When we raised it to 150% in 2013 we have kind of targeted a mid S&amp;P kind of yield which is about 2% or just under.
Obviously our stock price has gone up considerably since then.
So we're well under that which is a good reason to be under it with our stock price appreciating.
But I think it's something we continue to evaluate and whether the S&amp;P averages the right one or the industry sector averages the right target we have robust discussions about it.
I would say where we're at right now we have a lot of moving pieces this year.
We have $2.5 billion of CapEx including $2 billion towards our capacity expansion projects.
We've got the sale of the phosphate business.
We've got up to $1.5 billion of additional debt.
So there is a lot of ins and out.
And in that context we kind of want to get to probably a bit more stable place before we do something radical with the dividend.
But I think it's fair to say that overtime our objectives would be to increase it.
And the other piece of moving ins and out is the additional $1.4 billion of share repurchase authorization that's still open.
So there is a lot of as I said moving pieces but it's a good question and one that we continue to evaluate around here.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Earlier in the call you talked about mid-teens returns and your sale of ammonias up to Mosaic.
Are those mid-teens returns after-tax or pre-tax? Jeff what we were talking about there was the mid-teens returns profiles for the projects generally and yes those are after-tax IRRs.
If you go back to the presentation that we gave in December I think there was a table I'm not sure where it is but we gave sort of a returns profile for the projects varying urea price and gas price and those are after-tax return.
Tony I was wondering if your philosophy of share repurchase is different from that of Steve.
And how do you determine when you should buy more of your stock or less? Well Jeff I mean that's a great question.
And I would say I don't know that the philosophy is dramatically different that people that are weighing in on that Bert and Dennis and I are the same group that was here before.
I would say we believe that our shares continue to represent an outstanding value today and we're happy to be buying them.
As you saw we bought quite a few of them since the first of the year at prices in the $230 range and our outlook is certainly very robust particularly as we're looking at having the new capacity expansion projects come on.
That said I'd always rather buy more at lower prices but as we mentioned a couple of times now we are really looking at completing or largely completing our existing authorization by the end of the year.
Again part of that because we believe that our shares are very attractive for our long-term holders that we're taking amount at these kind of levels.
And then lastly on AECO gas really spiked tremendously at the beginning of February and I think it was up to maybe $16 MMBtu.
Was that difficult to cope with or how did you cope with the changes in Canadian gas prices? I mean if you look at the AECO gas differential now as you can see is back down for March.
In AECO we're sort of buying daily and during that period of time we did look at whether we should curtail ammonia production a little bit.
And in fact given the difficult ammonia market as Bert said when there is a tough ammonia market it's usually in Canada and the Dakotas principally because it's already a short application window anyway.
And when it was even further shortened the inventories were getting that big.
So we actively look at where gas is trading on a daily basis where our inventory position is and we did go ahead and turned down our ammonia plant during that period of high gas price to help cope with that.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the call back over to Tony Will for any closing remarks.
Thank you to everyone for participating in today's earnings conference call.
Our business model was really tested in the fourth quarter and during all of 2013 and it was again proven to be robust.
We are confident in the sustainability and magnitude of the operating cash flow generation capacity of this company which are underpinned by our three competitive advantages our cost structure compared to the industry our operating asset network and our experience and high-performing team.
With these strategic advantages that no other nitrogen company enjoys we are actively executing a strategy we believe will increase the value of CF Industries.
We are investing in high-return projects that are growing the underlying cash generation potential represented by each share.
We are actively reducing our outstanding share count and we are putting in place lower cost of capital for the company.
Thank you for your time today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Nova and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson and with me are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its first quarter 2014 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of the webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we posted our financial results for the first quarter in which we generated $1.3 billion of EBITDA or $513 million of EBITDA excluding the gain on the sale of our Phosphate business.
This is a strong level of performance given the business conditions and unusually volatile natural gas cost environment we faced during the quarter.
These strong results were delivered primarily because of 3 factors.
First our experienced and high-performing team who are widely regarded as the best nitrogen operators in the world.
Second our expansive network of production logistical and distribution assets which create opportunities that no other nitrogen company can access.
And third our structural cost advantage based on North American natural gas.
Coming into the year we were concerned with the relatively high level of ammonia inventory across the system.
However our team executed extremely well and we shipped 577 000 tons of ammonia a 73% increase over the same period last year.
That accomplishment was also enabled by our expansive network of distribution and storage assets which allowed us to carry over ammonia inventory from last fall and continue to operate our ammonia plant at high rates without undue concern about system inventory levels.
As a result we were able to operate our ammonia plants at a system wide average of 98% of stated capacity and had inventory available in the appropriate market regions to provide customers product when the demand came.
This winter was the coldest in North America in 30 years resulting in record natural gas withdrawals and increased short-term volatility in natural gas prices.
Henry Hub prices averaged over $5 per MMBtu during the quarter with significant basis differentials in several areas that were at times well into double-digit dollars per MMBtu including pricing locations that feed Courtright and Port Neal.
However the hedges put in place by our gas team enabled us to realize an average gas price of just $4.34 per MMBtu during the quarter.
These factors our employees our extensive asset base and our natural gas cost advantage are an enduring set of competitive advantages that provide us with significant sustainable cash flows and enabled us to deliver 44% gross margins in our Nitrogen business.
During the quarter we also made progress on a number of initiatives that helped execute our strategy to increase nitrogen capacity per share which translates directly into increased cash flow-generation capacity per share while at the same time we lowered the cost of financing the enterprise.
We repurchased 3.9 million shares in the first 4 months of 2014.
Our repurchases along with high return investments to expand our current nitrogen capacity have increased nitrogen tons per share by 144% since the beginning of 2010 which is shown on Slide 6 of the deck.
We are further growing our nitrogen production capacity through our expansion projects at Donaldsonville Louisiana and Port Neal Iowa.
We made good progress on these projects during the quarter both of which remain on schedule and on budget.
I'd refer you to Slide 5 in the deck for a few pictures of progress at the 2 sites.
We've begun construction of urea warehouses and ammonia storage tanks at both locations.
We are also nearing completion of civil foundation work for all the operating units at both sites.
These projects will increase our nitrogen capacity by 25% when they come online in 2015 and '16 and will leverage our existing asset base to grow our cash generation capacity with very favorable return characteristics even in difficult market conditions.
We also made significant progress in the quarter to lower the cost of financing the enterprise.
We completed a $1.5 billion investment grade long tenor debt issuance.
And we completed the sale of the Phosphate business to Mosaic for an estimated $1.1 billion of after-tax proceeds that we have reallocated back into our high-margin core Nitrogen business.
By focusing on operational excellence investing in high return growth projects and maintaining a low-cost capital structure we believe we will continue to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Bert to provide a deeper discussion of the nitrogen market conditions and our operations during the quarter.
Bert? Thanks Tony.
During the first quarter of 2014 we saw total nitrogen sales volume growth over the first quarter of 2013 thanks to very solid ammonia ammonium nitrate and other nitrogen sales volume.
The increases in sales volumes of these products offset decreases in urea and UAN.
As Tony mentioned our demand planning and logistics teams did a great job anticipating the robust ammonia demand we saw in the Southern Plains and lower Corn Belt regions.
The poor application [ph] conditions in the fall of 2013 created some pent-up demand but more importantly we had product in position and ready to ship so that we were able to meet demand and realized a very strong 73% year-over-year increase in ammonia volumes.
In addition we also had good industrial volume including the delivery of our first ammonia shipment to Mosaic following the close of the phosphate sale.
Ammonium nitrate shipments including AN export sales contributed to a 5% increase in AN sales volume.
Other nitrogen products particularly Diesel Exhaust Fluid experienced strong volume growth from industrial demand.
Our first quarter urea production volumes were lower plus a lower inventory position the first quarter of 2014 compared to 2013 contributed to a decline in the first quarter urea sales volume.
We realized good prices relative to market conditions and saw our inventory further declined during the quarter.
In the UAN market customers were hesitant to make purchases in order to avoid inventory risk.
Customers communicated that they are mainly purchasing to cover current commitments and will wait to buy until dealers and farmers committed to spring positions.
Rather than selling into a weak environment where prices did not reflect the value we saw in our product we built inventory with the expectation that more attractive sales opportunities would be available in Q2.
Except for ammonium nitrate product pricing declined in the first quarter of 2014 compared to 2013.
The cold and wet fall of Q4 2013 contributed to a weak ammonia application season and resulted in a higher-than-average industry inventory carried over into 2014.
Prices in Q1 were pressured by high ammonia inventory coming into the year but improved throughout the quarter.
Granular urea prices declined year-over-year due to higher global supply while UAN prices were weighed on by buyer reluctance to take on inventory risk.
As we look at the first half of 2014 we expect to see very strong shipments across our nitrogen product portfolio.
We forecast at least 92 million acres of corn to be planted and with favorable farm-level economics nitrogen demand continues to be robust.
We've now seen warm weather make its way to the upper Midwest and we are delivering significant volumes of product to our customers.
We have been setting ammonia delivery records at several of our terminal locations such as in Blair Nebraska where we safely loaded 235 trucks in a 24-hour period compared to the prior record of 177 trucks.
This new record was enabled by a modest-sized but high-return investments we made to increase our load-out capabilities at the terminal.
Robust ammonia demand is also being seen across our Corn Belt distribution points and is resulting in ammonia inventory quickly being pulled down.
We believe this inventory drawdown is industry-wide and our estimates show producer ammonia inventory to be very low.
Urea demand has been healthy.
And with the lower North American imports received compared to last year we're seeing a resulting tight inventory position that is supporting spot market pricing.
Given the tight inventory position in ammonia and urea we expect farmers will increasingly seek UAN to fill their nitrogen needs.
Additionally recent wet weather patterns have curtailed pre-plant ammonia application in some areas of the Corn Belt.
Farmers are now getting back into their fields and should be focused on getting corn seed into the ground and following up with UAN side-dress applications.
Given buyer reluctance to take inventory positions UAN imports are also down from recent years.
This is turning out to be a very spot-focused UAN market which we expect to drive positive sales volume.
Our inventory has been positioned in anticipation of that demand.
As we look beyond the spring application season we expect North American nitrogen prices as represented at the U.S.
Gulf to decline to global parity.
These prices are being impacted by current Chinese urea exports which are expected to increase during their low export tariff season.
This market view is consistent with Chinese new tariff policy and the recent declines in Chinese coal prices.
When the Chinese low tariff export season opens in July we could see urea full prices similar to what we saw last year in the U.S.
Gulf.
However we expect the market to balance due production outages at marginal cost producers when prices decline below their cash costs.
Producers in areas with higher gas cost such as Eastern Europe some producers in Ukraine have already announced production shutdown as prices have dipped below their cash breakeven points or due to civil unrest.
In context it is important to note that with gas prices in the mid-$4 per MMBtu range U.S.-based nitrogen producers can realize very positive cash margins at these perceived floor levels.
This positions CF Industries to generate strong cash flows even during periods of weaker market conditions.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Bert.
Our financial results for the quarter demonstrate the robust cash generation capacity of our business.
During a quarter characterized by very difficult market and natural gas price conditions we generated $1.3 billion of EBITDA or $513 million excluding the gain from the sale of the Phosphate business.
Our Nitrogen business had strong results generating $434 million of gross margin which was 44% of the $988 million of segment sales.
In addition to addressing and overcoming logistical and nitrogen market challenges we were also able to mitigate a substantial amount of the volatility seen in the natural gas market as a result of the record cold weather experienced during the first quarter.
Late in 2013 we put in place NYMEX hedges for 75% of our natural gas needs for the first quarter at very attractive prices.
Even though we experienced some temporary spikes in the basis differentials at a couple of our plants the hedges reduced our exposure to short-term volatility in the natural gas market.
As a result we had an average realized oil and gas purchase price of $4.34 per MMBtu compared to the Henry Hub average of $5.05 for the quarter.
We're also quite pleased with the progress we've made during the quarter on a number of long-term strategic financial objectives.
Progress on our capacity expansion programs continued with $278 million in cash capital expenditures during the quarter.
We expect spending on the program to ramp up during the remainder of the year as we begin to take delivery of more of the major equipment and as we continue mechanical system construction work throughout the year.
Including the amounts paid this quarter we still project that we will have roughly $2 billion of capital expenditures related to the expansion program during 2014.
Together with maintenance and other capital expenditures we expect total CapEx for the year in the neighborhood of $2.5 billion.
During the quarter we bought back 3.2 million shares returning $794 million of cash to shareholders through our repurchase program.
Through April 30 we purchased an additional 677 000 shares.
Cumulatively the repurchases we have completed since 2011 have had the effect of reducing our share count by over 25% since we completed the Terra acquisition.
During the first quarter we issued an additional $1.5 billion of long-term investment-grade debt.
This consists of bonds with 20- and 30-year maturities and coupon rates of 5.15% and 5.375% respectively.
The addition of this tax-efficient long-duration financing creates a debt funding profile that is nicely laddered over many years and has provided us with very attractive low-cost financing.
We also are pleased to complete the sale of the Phosphate business to Mosaic and expect to realize approximately $1.1 billion of after-tax proceeds from the transaction.
We have set aside $460 million of these proceeds to reinvest in the expansion projects some of which will be reinvested in a tax-efficient manner that will increase the net present value of the projects.
We are also pleased to have Mosaic as an ammonia customer now and have begun shipments to them from our operations in Trinidad.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dennis.
The first quarter saw outstanding ammonia shipments.
As we move into the second quarter we are well-positioned to provide the products our customers need.
Our team continues to focus on operational excellence and executing our business plan every day.
And this is why we are able to generate significant cash flows even during difficult market conditions.
I would personally like to recognize our natural gas procurement team for their work to minimize our exposure to short-term volatility in natural gas prices which helped us to generate great results for our shareholders this quarter.
I would also like to highlight our tax team who were able to structure the Phosphate sale and subsequent reinvestment back into the capacity expansion projects in such an efficient way as to increase the NPV of these projects significantly.
With that we will now open the line to your questions.
Nova? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes Tony 2 questions 1 operational 1 financial.
On the operational side I noted that you said your ammonia units ran at about 98% operating rate in the first quarter.
Just wondering if you can compare your operating rates versus the industry and how much additional volume you think that gets you.
And then in the financial side I didn't hear any comments on the status of your MLP review.
Thanks Don.
I'll tell you what the operation side and then I'll turn it over to Dennis on the MLP side.
On the operation side understand that if you just lose 1 day per month of operating because of maintenance outage or something like that unexpected it drops your operating rate down to about 97% of capacity.
So the fact that we were able to run the system at 98% is pretty darn good particularly given the high level of ammonia inventory we had coming into the system.
I don't really have good data on what other people were doing in terms of the operations during the quarter.
But I think the 1 thing that I would highlight is because of the network that we have and our ability to move ammonia into storage when we need to it doesn't put a constraint on our ability to run our plants full out all the time.
Dennis you want to handle the MLPs? Sure.
Don as we said before we've engaged 2 bulge bracket banks to look at this the MLP question for us in a comprehensive way.
The last time we talked about this what we said was as we look across our system and we look at the older assets the stuff that's not under construction but low tax bases we believe it doesn't make a lot of sense to be selling those into MLPs because the tax hit associated with that would make that quite unattractive.
And then obviously we're continuing to look at the newer assets as well.
The newer assets will not complete until sometime in 2015 and 2016.
So at that point in time you have to look at the tax code and what that provides for whether that makes sense or not.
But we will have something more definitive to say about the conclusions around the study at some point later this year.
I don't have anything to add to that specifically today.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Parkinson of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Given the magnitude of the buyback in the first quarter and current balance sheet metrics can you give a little more color on your thoughts on the program particularly as it appears there are some ample industry headwinds on the horizon? Sure.
Thanks for the question.
I'd say a lot of this question has to do with your view of appropriate time frame.
And as we look at the business it's not the next 3 or 6 or even 12 months that we're that obsessively focused about.
It's the long term.
And as we get out 12 to 18 months we're going to have the capacity expansion upgrade parts of Donaldsonville online.
As we get out 18 to 24 months we'll have all of the capacity online.
So that's going to increase our nitrogen production by 25% and have an appropriate corresponding impact on our cash flow generation.
And as we sort of sit back and look at the value that we're trading at today given the context of that capacity coming online in we are very comfortable with the pace and the rate at which we're buying shares back and we think viewed in the longer-term time horizon our shareholders that are with us will stand up and roundly applaud the decisions that we're taking today.
So while we would like to buy at bottom tick we're not going to sit on our hands and try to project when that is.
We feel very comfortable with the prices that we're sweeping those shares in at.
Research Division</strong> And just a very quick follow-up.
In your release you mentioned UAN volumes decreased due to some buyer deferrals and pricing may have been a little bit pressured by increases in domestic supply.
Can you talk about what you've seen over let's say the last 4 6 weeks as planting has really ramped up and any preliminary expectations going forward over the summer? This is Bert.
So for UAN as we mentioned we saw a difference between how we valued our products and what we thought would happen as spring unfolded to what the market was -- how the market was pricing UAN overall.
Yes there has been increased domestic production but of course bonding decrease in imports as well as an increase in exports.
So the system we believe coming into this period second quarter was fairly balanced to tight.
And we believe that because of the late moist and cool weather that we received in April which really slowed down ammonia applications that's going to push farmers to probably purchase more UAN than we had anticipated.
And so we positioned our product for that utilizing our distribution assets as well as customers have been stepping in and buying every day.
And we believe that that will continue through Q2.
After that point there's always a rebalance in this market where there's an inventory build that lasts several months and we will enter that market at the appropriate time.
The next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one a near-term question and then a longer-term one.
On the near-term could you talk a little bit about why you think Chinese coal prices went down? And then who are the other people you expect or other regions that you think will wind up shutting in some capacity over the summer? And then on a longer-term basis Tony I don't want to put words in your mouth but if I think about the next couple of years in my mind it looks like this.
You finish off the $580 million of the repurchase that's left.
In the second half of this year you'll have some insight into where your CapEx budget is and probably feel -- hopefully feel that you're not going to have material overruns that might allow you to feel comfortable allocating that $1 billion of phosphate proceeds towards either a repurchase or to something else.
And then as we move into '15 and '16 we look forward to the decision of whether to leverage those new facilities up which I think are about $700 million of EBITDA or to put them into an MLP.
And then you'll also be considering if we think back to before when -- before the announcement of the new facilities there was I think almost $2 billion of brownfield projects that could have been.
So I guess what I'm saying is is your line of sight on sort of continued buybacks and volume growth beyond just the sort of '15 '16 period that we're all contemplating today? Vincent thanks.
I'm going to ask Bert to start off with the Chinese coal and the other regions of the world that we may see shutdowns in which we just have some news on today in fact.
Let's go ahead Bert.
Regarding Chinese coal prices they are already very low.
You see a lot of integration plays taking place by the coal producers moving into urea production as of just an integration for that raw material stream.
But when you factor in -- if the marginal ton the import ton whether from Indonesia or other coal-supplying regions of the world into China the prices where they're at today are if they're cash positive it would be questionable.
Then you have to look at the cost curve for gas anthracite different types of coal locations freight.
And I believe where they are today and where they're projected to go in June or in July at the opening of the low tariff season will be very similar to last year could go a little bit lower.
But at that point I don't know if they can sustain that production rate and investment needed to stay active in the business.
Relative to the next question on who we expect not to operate.
As Tony mentioned today we received information from KEYTRADE late -- I guess late in their day early in our day on the shutdowns from the DF Group in Ukraine due to civil unrest as well as OPZ is not operating.
So I expect that to take 150 000 to 200 000 tons of urea off the market but there are other places that are not.
The Egyptians are on per month right? Per month yes.
There are other areas that are not operating due to gas shortages being -- the typical ones which we mentioned Pakistan Bangladesh and then gas reductions to plants which would be Egypt.
You've got some plants coming up from turnaround.
But overall I think that even some low gas cost regions are moderate and will not have gas to produce and then we'll see some of the European Eastern European Romanians Bulgarians probably have difficulty going forward into Q3.
And Vincent on your second question about sort of the longer wavelength stuff I'm going to kind of tag team this one a little bit with Dennis.
I'll just start off.
You're absolutely right.
The brunt of $2 billion of spend on the capacity expansion projects this year is going to happen during Q2 Q3 and into Q4.
That's one we're going to be mobilizing the legions of contractors on sites to start the mechanical erection above ground and take delivery from a lot of the larger vessels.
And so as we get into the back end of this year we'll be through the brunt of the spend on those projects and have much better line of sight in terms of how things are trending and when we expect the projects to come online and what the total cost is.
So at that point we'll be in a much better position to sort of gauge our ongoing position in terms of sources and uses.
And then I'll ask Dennis to go ahead and just take it from here.
Yes.
Vince I think the way to look at is if you go back to what we said in New York back in December and what we've been saying since we sort of outlined what our -- this really goes to what your question is and that's really longer-term capital allocation.
We sort of outlined our capacity allocation priorities at that point in time.
As Tony said we want to finish the projects we want to complete the share repurchase program.
We've got some ongoing CapEx and dividends as well.
And during that period of time we expect that the business will continue to generate some significant operating cash flow.
We've had the sources of liquidity that we talked about the $1.5 billion bond issued $1.4 billion net of tax $1.1 billion sale of phosphate.
All of the things we talked about those things are playing out as we expected.
And so beyond that sits what we believe could be some substantially free cash flow.
And we'll have to make a determination at that time.
But the framework for thinking about what we do whether it's capital returns or investments in projects really if we have projects in our core business that we can invest in that are well above the cost of capital and those are attractive we'll invest money in those things.
If not then the money obviously is there for the return to shareholders.
So none of that has changed.
With respect to your question around financing the additional capacity when it comes online we said that we want to be at a debt to EBITDA level around 2 2.5x.
We believe today that we're at the -- comfortably at the lower end of that range.
We're mindful of the fact that as you point out we'll be bringing on significant amounts more EBITDA with the new projects and we'll make a determination at that time.
But our view is to stay solid investment-grade.
We believe that means 2 to 2.5x EBITDA.
And if there is significant borrowing capacity that could be accessed at that time at attractive rates and such then we would certainly look to do that.
The next question comes from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a question for Bert and reflect on the outlook and the market view today relative to the beginning of the year clearly some really strong performance in ammonia in the quarter and getting the inventory situation cleared out and that was a big concern going into the year maybe balance that by prospects of some more Chinese urea exports.
Maybe can you talk about how your view of the year at least the first half if not the year looks today versus it did a few months ago? Thanks.
Good morning.
It is different.
Coming into the year we did have a high inventory level of ammonia as well as the rest of the industry and we were concerned because Q4 did not operate as well as we had hoped and I suspect the industry probably less several hundred if not 400 000 tons of ammonia unapplied.
So that was in tanks or at plants and we worked since December you saw us export a few cargoes and then worked to mitigate that risk by moving product to our distribution facilities selling product in NOLA to some of the importers moving product spot up through some of the tanks on the River as well as our industrial business.
So a multipronged attack I guess on ammonia which served us well through the quarter and allowed us I think to enter into Q2 favorably positioned but still positioned to get the positive momentum from the I states.
So in Q1 that was mostly in Nebraska Kansas Missouri Oklahoma movement to the ground for wheat as well as corn pre-plant.
And then now you're seeing that movement you're seeing in Q2 a greater drawdown I think through the pipeline into the river terminals for corn.
Still to go is the Northern tier which is Canada North Dakota and Minnesota.
So we're watching that.
Hopefully that's going to dry out soon.
So that's how we progressed through January.
January saw an increase as we went through the months on urea probably started around 330 peaked around 430 and we're settling back now.
I think we're a little surprised at how positive urea movement was through Q1 and into Q2 and that is a reflection I think of probably fewer imports and then early pull on urea.
And then UAN has been fairly stable through the quarter it probably started in the lows of $250 and approached almost $300 NOLA.
And so we do think as I said in our prepared remarks that UAN will be the positive player in Q2.
We should see an overall drawdown of all products.
So I think coming from where we were in January to where we think we could end up for the first half it's a pretty good position for CF as well as the industry.
Chinese exports were probably the surprise.
I don't think anybody anticipated that you see 2 million tons of exports out of there in January and February.
You had an India tender but that product seemed to go everywhere.
And I think you would probably err on the high side of expectation of exports out of China through 2014 and we're preparing for that eventuality.
Other than that I would say we're very positive.
I think even with the -- if you were to list the difficulties that we can look back on logistical constraints excess product available in the world market cool wet temperatures in the United States and the view where we are today is a pretty remarkable position.
And I do credit the team the guys had planned well and executed well and I think we're well-positioned to enter the back half of the year.
I think prices will go down a little bit probably -- last year we reached a low of $275 we could dip below that but I don't think we can sustain that for very long.
And you're going to see people falling off.
So I don't want to be too optimistic but I am optimistic the back half.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just a quick follow-up in urea in the quarter your utilization was around 80% it's a little bit lower than you've seen the last couple of years.
Anything notable on the plant side that your utilization was down? I'd say we did have some downtime in Donaldsonville during the quarter.
We did favor UAN over urea during the quarter.
And so you don't see us make those moves but we do throttle up and throttle down as we see -- deem necessary or market-driven.
And as I said in my comments we drew our inventory lower through the quarter and so that's where we are.
Adam I'd also say that's one of the benefits that our network has which is if we do have a urea plant take some unexpected downtime we're able to reallocate and move that product barge and pipe into the -- through our terminal system and that helps us drive our ammonia business.
We had conducive weather for it.
So we've got a lot of levers to be able to pull kind of regardless of what happens out there and I think this is just another example of just how we can utilize our broad asset base to take advantage of what otherwise might have been challenging for other participants.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A question for you on natural gas.
In your press release you observed that the long-term curve is below $5 through 2020 and you may have also seen 1 of your peer companies in nitrogen elected to layer in some hedges or disclose that they did so yesterday for 2016 through 2018.
I guess my question would be if you can provide us with an update on your philosophy I think you would need to board approval to go out that far.
I don't know if there's any inclination or desire to do so.
So perhaps you could kind of update us on your approach there given the shape of the curve? Yes Kevin.
Thanks for that.
As we looked out the curve this morning again what we saw was despite all of the volatility that we had the low storage level we have going into the spring coming out of the winter what we see is a curve that doesn't reach $5 until you're sometime out in 2020.
And so to us that underpins our belief that the long-term trading range for natural gas in the United States is going to be sort of supply economics-driven and it's going to be between $3 and $5.
So that is unchanged.
With respect to our philosophy on hedging we've done different types of things in the past.
But generally what we're trying to do with our hedging program is to dampen the risk that is associated with near-term volatility in the markets.
You can see that we did that to quite good effect in Q1 and we've also got significant amount of hedges as we that we set on for Q2.
I can't comment on specifically which competitor you're talking about.
But as we sort of -- as we think about things longer-term would we consider doing something long-term? Sure it's possible.
But typically what we run into when we talk about long-term deals is suppliers want to supply above the curve and buyers want to buy below the curve and so it doesn't make a lot of sense.
Our sense is that this is the deepest most liquid natural gas market in the world.
There is not a security of supply issue to be managed here.
And we really do focus on really dampening out the near-term volatility.
But as I said -- that having been said we have the ability with the approval of our board to do all sorts of other things too if those things made sense.
1 thing I would point out that we have done or 2 things is we've got 2 contracts one with Orica which we signed this year for ammonium nitrogen and also the Mosaic deal on ammonia where we've got margins locked in above gas prices.
So we've done some things on the output side to kind of deal with some of that as well.
But we remain open but we also remain very committed to our long-term outlook on gas resources development and then the $3 to $5 price range.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Tiberio of Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a sense of how we should think about the potential sales impact from the Woodward outage? Is this a situation where you can catch up based on your current inventory in Q2? Or is this a situation where we may be facing some lost sales because of the 6- to 8-week turnaround in May versus June? Thanks Tim.
Appreciate the question.
Obviously if you're ever down longer than you're planning to be down for a turnaround you're going to lose some production.
But there's a lot of levers that we have to be able to pull in order to make sure that we don't disappoint customers on commitments that we've made.
And Bert and his team have done a great job of moving some things around in order to do that.
And one of the other levers that we have that we don't spend a lot of time talking about is our ability to shift some turnarounds if we need to.
And so we have decided to push one of the scheduled turnarounds that was previously scheduled for Q4 of this year out into next year and take it in Q1 next year and that basically leaves us an ability to deliver from a total production standpoint volumes that we were anticipating in our plan at the beginning of the year.
And so the benefit of the network that we have and the scale that we have is we can deal with some of these unplanned outages in a way that other people frankly just can't manage.
And as you said a big chunk of the outage time is being consumed with turnaround activities anyway which was just going to happen later in the year.
So we're trying to minimize the overall impact and we think by the back end of the year no one will notice that it happened at all.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And 1 last question around I guess the labor procurement at your expansion sites.
I think there was a media report where the site manager indicated that you've secured 20% of the 2 000 contract workers that you'll need eventually at Port Neal.
Can you give us a sense whether that within your range of estimates at this point and the development of the site? And maybe just give us an update overall across the sites how you're feeling about labor availability? I know you cited that as one of the major challenges as you head out over the next 2 to 3 years in managing that budget.
You bet Tim.
On the labor side for the projects we're -- we feel very comfortable about where we're at overall.
We're in the process of marshaling up to almost kind of 2 500 contract workers at D'Ville.
And we're moving up there and we'll soon be at that sort of run rate here within the next month or 2.
And we do have good availability of skilled workers for Port Neal as well.
And what we're seeing right now in terms of the wage rates that are required to bring those people in it's very consistent and in line with our original estimates in terms of overall project costs.
And there's always puts and calls on these big projects in terms of how they're running.
But everything we've locked down in terms of fixed costs were completed much of the way of civil construction and so forth continue to give us full confidence that we're both on schedule and on-budget within plus or minus 10% of the authorized $3.8 billion.
So we feel very good about where we're at.
A couple of the really large projects that were expected to launch in the Gulf region on the petrochemical side have been delayed.
And so that has not sucked up a lot of the skilled contractor base.
So again we feel very comfortable about where we're at right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Gulley of BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
You've talked about capital allocation several times during the call.
First question is can you update us at all on your thoughts on downstream expansions at Medicine Hat particularly given the low natural gas cost up there and also given the fact that one of your competitors secured a very cheap natural gas cost lease from a Canadian natural gas producer? And then secondly you also talked about basis differentials on natural gas.
You also have that at product prices.
Is there anything you can do to get your pipeline partner to expand capacity so you can move ammonia cheaper more of the cheaper upper -- to the upper Midwest? Thanks Mark.
I'll handle the capital allocation and I'll ask Dennis to talk a little bit about the basis differential and what we're doing to kind of manage and mitigate that going forward.
On the capital allocation relative to Medicine Hat as you noted there's a very positive spread in the upper Northwest and into western Canada on realized urea prices versus historically ammonia prices.
And that's what's making us interested in looking at that kind of project.
The challenge in Alberta is -- and a lot of the energy companies in the tar sands and others that have gone after those kind of projects have looked at which is wage rate and escalation.
And so we are being very cautious and very thoughtful about going into this and it's only if we can lock in some pretty good contracts and some security around what the total cost of construction is that we would be willing to go down that road.
So we're in the throes of the discussion.
We've got some good help with our technology partners and construction companies and others looking at it.
We're going at it full-bore.
But we're only going to do it if we can guarantee returns of well above our cost of cap.
On the basis differential side I'll ask Dennis to go ahead and talk about that.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'll talk about gas basis differentials Mark and I'll hand over to Bert to talk about what -- your question with respect to the ammonia pipeline and capacity there.
During the quarter as we pointed out in the press release and in our prepared remarks we talked about being exposed to some very significant basis swings particularly at 2 places: One was at Dawn which is our Courtright facility in Canada; and the other one was at Port Neal Iowa.
And I think we need to put that into context.
If you look at Port Neal Iowa for instance the average basis dip for the quarter was about $3.84.
There were days as Tony pointed out where those differentials widened out to $20 plus but it would only be for a day or so.
Now that occurred after the -- the normal basis differential at Port Neal is around $0.13 per MMBtu and that's generally very very stable over time and simply reflects transportation.
So obviously this winter was quite anomalous we wouldn't expect that to happen on an ongoing basis.
So that's what happened in the quarter.
With respect to going forward we've got 50% of our Dawn basis differential hedged for the next 12 months.
And we'll look at basis exposure from time to time and we may put hedges in to sort of dampen out that volatility exposure.
But this is the sort of things that we as a gas committee discuss on a monthly basis and we'll take actions when it makes sense to do so.
I'll hand it over to Bert on the ammonia pipeline issue.
So on the pipeline we use both pipeline systems primarily the NuStar system which is the Gulf -- old Gulf States which goes up into the corn states and the Magellan which we load out of Verdigris.
And so it's more a part of the components that we build for the whole which are for ammonia.
We use the pipelines and the next step up of cost component would be barge movement and then vessel and then rail and truck.
And so we use each of those modes to move the product.
I think we're the largest consumer or capacity utilizer on the NuStar up to our terminal locations throughout the Midwest.
I'm not sure if they need more capacity.
We use all the capacity that we can.
When you have 2 application seasons fall and spring it's really just a build and then where you could use capacity or extra capacity is in November and April for the recharge.
So what we've done is invested in Palmyra which is a receiving point.
We're able to load barges out of there and quickly move products on a shuttle service to various terminals in a cost-effective way as well as just utilizing our terminals that we've invested a significant amount of money over the last several years in order to unload or discharge the terminals and load them and bring product in as fast as possible.
So we may shut several terminals off to a certain point to reload a few key terminals at that same moment.
So I think it's more how we're maximizing the value of the pipeline is the efficient use of the complete system in the lowest cost manner.
Mark 1 other thing I'd like to add is that we're running all of our ammonia plants sort of full out every single day so we can't really mitigate basis differential changes with ammonia movements because we want to be able to run our end-market plants just as hard we do the ones on the Gulf.
So I think it kind of goes back to what Dennis was saying which is even though we've never really seen this happen before what we'll likely do to take that volatility out of the equation is to hedge the basis differentials going forward as well as the underlying gas requirement at Henry Hub and manage it that way instead.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Korn of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You briefly mentioned DEF early in your remarks.
Could you sketch out that current market for me what you're shipping today what's your current ceiling for volumes would be and how gross margins for that product measure up to the mid-product average for the whole complex today in the mid-40s? Sure.
Matthew good morning.
I'll ask Bert to handle that one.
So DEF is a quickly growing market.
I think year-on-year you're seeing growth of 20% to 35%.
Just as the new class 8 trucks come in and are integrated into the trucking fleets there's this sort of direct and dramatic growth I think as you see those incorporated.
And the next move will be off-road and then Marine.
And then as you get to different-size engines we project a very positive growth trajectory for DEF.
And I think if you look at Integer or any of the other folks in the market they would project that at a 1.5 million-ton urea equivalent market by 2020.
But it could be higher as dosing rates go up due to efficiency standards and things like that.
So we're looking -- when you look at the -- that's the market.
When you look at volumes we're consistently participating in a market share of -- actually I hesitate to give that.
So we're a healthy participant in that market.
And the premiums for the product over granular urea for urea liquor or DEF range in the $50 to $100 per ton.
Research Division</strong> Alright.
Any other promising opportunities you're currently exploring for industrial sales indexed or gas linked sales? I guess how active are you in wanting to layer in that kind of lower volatility perhaps maybe lower margin type of shipment.
The second part of your question is the key component.
It depends on the margin.
We're not going to pursue it just to get volume.
We're not going to pursue just to sign a contract.
There has to be something that's attractive for the plant that's supplying the product for the market that it's in.
And if you look at the 2 contracts that we signed Mosaic was a win-win for both companies.
Mosaic was able to acquire the assets that integrate into their system.
We're able to supply a great customer a new ammonia contract that fit their needs.
For Orica same principle a very nice asset base located that's logistically advantaged for them and for us to sign that contract with a healthy margin for the plant and allow that to have a long-term viability was very attractive.
If other opportunities came up where we were able to link up with companies that probably have a similar view culture and integration point which let's say work well with us and that type of offer is attractive we would look at that.
But again it's something as we look at the whole component on the margin capability for the business.
And I think the key there -- I would echo what Bert said.
The key there is we really only want to partner with a few select really leaders in the particular spaces to do this.
It's not a broad-based "we'll take all comers." Mosaic is the clear leader in phosphate.
We think they're a great customer to have and we're excited about being able to supply them.
And we are able to lock in honestly and kind of derisk the return profile of those new -- the new capacity expansion projects and get a mid-teens sort of return on the capital going into that plant.
So that made a ton of sense for us and our contract coming out of Yazoo City was going to expire at the end of '16 with Orica and they're the leader in ammonium nitrate here in North America and again it made sense for us to work with them to secure a home for that production.
So we feel very good about those but to echo what Bert said it's really aligning around the right customer and finding economics that work for both parties.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
I was wondering if you could talk about some of the net backs you might expect for Medicine Hat.
Just because with the Viterra stores now owning one of your nitrogen competitors that may change the dynamic of where you're selling your product in the North? Regarding net backs or customers or competitors we look at it holistically.
And so where [indiscernible] are we on what markets are available to us.
We work with all the majors the major retailers wholesalers and traders and determine then what product goes to what locations.
Obviously the first I guess step is logistically integrated or logistically advantaged and that's what we would look at first.
So the Canadian market the Northern tier is where that product probably will go and is going today.
And so it's -- I don't know if that answered your question but that's what we're looking at.
And I would say North Dakota is probably for the expansion project the key market Montana that northern region where we have a good market share today.
And just finally it's been touched on a couple of times this morning but do you see more volatility in AECO gas than American gas going forward? No I wouldn't think so.
Effectively it's all going to be -- it's all North American gas.
Yes there's a differential in AECO to Henry Hub and that may persist as production comes on in east of the United States and pushes MMBtus back into Canada.
But I don't have a view that it's going to necessarily going to be any more volatile or less volatile than the underlying Henry Hub market.
But long term we do see AECO gas as continuing to be even though North American gas in aggregate is very attractive compared to the rest of the world AECO within North America tends to be a real relatively low-cost gas environment.
Typically it's got a basis differential of about $0.50 to $0.70 below Henry Hub.
And so that's another reason why that asset at Medicine Hat is so attractive because the cost structure of that one really compared to even the rest of our asset base is very very attractive.
And I'm not showing any further questions in the queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Tony Will for closing remarks.
Thanks.
We're excited about the prospects for CF Industries.
We have an experienced and high-performing team executing our plans the most expansive network of nitrogen production and logistical assets in North America and a structural cost advantage from North American natural gas.
With these competitive advantages we believe in the sustainable cash generation of this business.
We also believe in a balanced view of capital deployment investing in high return projects that leverage our core capabilities otherwise returning excess cash to stockholders while maintaining an efficient balance sheet.
To that end we made terrific progress on all our strategic initiatives on our capacity expansion projects the sale of Phosphate share repurchases and our investment-grade debt issuance.
We are executing a set of strategic initiatives that will significantly grow our nitrogen and cash-generation capacity per share of stock and we believe this focus will enable us to continue delivering terrific results to our shareholders.
Thank you all for your time today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Nicholas.
I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson and with me are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its second quarter 2014 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
CF Industries reported EBITDA of $613 million for the second quarter and adjusted EBITDA of over $1.1 billion for the first half of 2014 despite the challenges of relatively low nitrogen prices globally and North American gas prices that were higher and more volatile than any we've faced in the past 4 years.
I'm pleased to report that our capacity expansion projects both Donaldson Louisiana and Port Neal Iowa remain on time and on budget.
I'd ask you to please refer to Slides 5 through 8 in our deck for a snapshot of recent progress at those sites.
We also announced the next phase of our ongoing commitment to return excess cash to shareholders with both a new $1 billion share repurchase program and a 50% increase in our regular quarterly dividend.
Now I'd like to provide some perspectives on the market.
The past several quarters have tested and affirmed our views of the global nitrogen cost curve the long-term structural cost advantage of North American natural gas and the strength and cash-generating power of our business model.
Given that there remains excess production capacity globally nitrogen continued to trade based on supply-side economics where product pricing is set near the cash cost of the marginal producer.
In the first half of 2014 there were production shutdowns in several high-cost regions including Eastern Europe and even some Chinese production confirming once again the validity of the global cost curve and the rational economic behavior of industry participants.
In North America coming into 2014 ammonia inventories were high and related prices depressed as a result of the poor 2013 spring and fall application seasons.
Low ammonia prices combined with almost ideal application conditions led to brisk demand.
This spring our teams did an excellent job of execution to deliver all-time record ammonia shipments of 1.1 million tons for the quarter and 1.7 million tons for the first half of the year.
On the natural gas side North America experienced its coldest winter in 30 years.
This dramatically increased gas usage for heating and led to record withdrawals from storage driving gas prices above $5 per MMBtu at times.
However as expected the natural gas supply response was swift.
Gas production increased significantly and led to record levels of injections into storage contributing to prices today below $4 per MMBtu.
During the first half of this year we were able to mitigate the worst effects of the high prices with our hedging program resulting in our realized gas cost of $4.27 per MMBtu compared to the Henry Hub average of $4.81.
We remain confident in our long-term view that gas will trade between $3 and $5.
I'll turn the call over to Bert and Dennis to expand on these points in just a moment but first I want to highlight how we continue to deliver on our capital stewardship commitment to shareholders.
Our focus continues to be: increase CF's nitrogen production and cash flow generation per share of stock while lowering the overall cost of financing the enterprise.
We are fully committed to the belief that this is the best approach to generate significant value for our shareholders over the long run.
In terms of how we are going about this first is our investment in high-return growth projects.
We continue to make significant progress on our expansion projects at Donaldsonville and Port Neal which will increase our nitrogen production capacity and potential cash generation by roughly 25%.
Both projects remain on time and on budget and I fully expect that by this time next year our new urea plant at Donaldsonville will be up and producing product that's Page 6 of the slides with the other operating units soon to follow.
Second is our share repurchases.
Back in 2012 we announced a $3 billion share repurchase program that was originally scheduled to run through the end of 2016.
Last night we announced that we had completed that original program in less than half of the time allocated and now are effectively upsizing it by 33% adding a new a $1 billion authorization.
Since the Terra acquisition in the first half of 2010 just 4 years ago we have repurchased $4.5 billion of our stock reducing our share count by 32% which now stands at less than 50 million shares outstanding.
Third is dividends.
We announced a 50% increase in our regular quarterly dividend which is now $1.50 per share.
Since our IPO in August of 2005 our annual dividend has increased from $0.08 per share to $6 per share a compound annual growth rate of 62%.
We have demonstrated a consistent track record of increasing our dividend over time.
Until our capacity projects are complete and operational we continue to target a dividend yield roughly that of the S&amp;P something in the range of 1.5% to 2%.
We believe this dividend payment will make CF's shares attractive to a broad set of investors who share our belief in the sustainable cash flow characteristics of this company.
Even with the following all true: one there is excess nitrogen production capacity globally and prices therefore are set on supply-side economics; two China exported over 4 million metric tons of urea in the first half of 2014; three ammonia inventories were high and prices somewhat under pressure; and four North American gas cost was higher and more volatile than it has been in 4 years.
Even with all of that true we still generated over $1.1 billion of adjusted EBITDA for the first 6 months of the year.
It is the consistent reliable sustainable ongoing cash flow generation of this company that enables us to constantly undertake these capital stewardship initiatives.
Now let me turn the call over to Bert and Dennis to provide a deeper discussion of our operations during the quarter.
Bert? Thanks Tony.
We had an exceptionally strong spring application season in 2014.
We were worried throughout the early part of the quarter that intermittent wet and cold weather would impact farmers' ability to apply nitrogen.
But in the end farmers had an extended period of good weather for nutrient application in the latter part of the quarter.
We demonstrated that come what may in terms of weather conditions the strength of our unrivaled asset base and dedicated employees allow us to perform and serve our customers well.
We were able to capitalize on a fantastic North American ammonia season by managing our system of storage and logistical assets to maximize product deliveries to customers.
We shipped 1.1 million tons of ammonia in Q2 and reached a 6-month record of 1.7 million tons.
Shipments were very strong throughout the systems with the Northern and Canadian terminals catching up later in the quarter as cold and wet weather in those areas subsided and application continued through June.
Pre-plant and side-dress applications were robust throughout the Corn Belt but especially healthy in the I states of Iowa Illinois and Indiana.
The record ammonia sales were due to investments we've made to increase our peak receiving and loading capacity our in-market distribution facilities.
These investments support a continuing trend toward shorter ammonia application seasons.
We have invested in new loading racks pumping equipment and control systems in several of our distribution facilities and plant locations.
Among the shipping record set this spring was a new truck loading record at our Medicine Hat facility where we loaded over 2 300 tons of ammonia in a 24-hour period surpassing the prior record by 13%.
As Tony mentioned earlier we've seen a rational -- we see rational producer behavior in reactions to global urea prices.
Chinese producers exported 4.2 million metric tons of urea for the calendar year through June a 219% increase over the same period in 2013.
This brought the July to June fertilizer year rate to 11 million metric tons and put pressure on global prices.
But our view of the cost curve was proven as producers in high-cost regions such as Romania Lithuania and Estonia along with some Chinese production shut down as prices went below their cash costs.
Last year urea prices moved down beginning in February until settling out in October.
During that time period some importers to North America incurred losses as product prices moved down during the time for when they bought offshore product to when they transported and sold that product in-market.
We believe some retailers saw a margin compression after taking inventory positions earlier in the year only to have lower sales prices when farmers stepped forward to purchase and apply urea.
As a result this led to buyer reluctance in 2014 to hold inventory and be exposed to price risk.
During the first half of 2014 forward prices for urea were lower than spot prices which discouraged imports into the United States as traders feared potential losses.
As a result North American urea inventories were tight during the second quarter and when demand emerged in the spring prices at the U.S.
Gulf remained above international price parity.
We chose to accept the inventory-carrying risk and were rewarded when we decided to price only spot sales and avoid forward sales to any great degree.
We were able to achieve a very attractive average price of $396 per short ton when the average U.S.
Gulf price during the quarter was $356 per short ton and the middle Eastern granular FOB price was $288 per short ton.
We planned for robust UAN demand from late April through June.
We stored products in the terminals in the absence of first quarter demand and we planned to pick up spot sales in the cross market.
However the strong and lengthy ammonia season took some demand away from UAN.
We managed this change in market conditions by selling into the strong ammonia demand and utilizing our distribution facilities to pick up available UAN sales opportunities.
As a result of capturing these opportunities and due to some production issues during the quarter at our Woodward complex plus our exports in Q2 our UAN inventories were at normal levels by the end of the quarter.
We launched our ammonia and UAN fill programs earlier this year than last.
The programs had good demand and we have built an attractive order book.
We expect the second half of 2014 to be positive but a little different from 2013.
In 2013 urea prices entered July around $300 per short ton of the U.S.
Gulf and then moved down to $280 per short ton by mid-October.
The outlook last year did not appear very positive due to the abundant amount of Chinese urea stored at the Chinese ports and ready for export.
Urea pricing pulled the overall nitrogen price structure lower and the general outlook was negative.
In 2014 as we enter Q3 urea prices in North America continued to be above international levels.
We expect that a large amount of urea imports in August and September will bring the North American price structure toward parity with the world market and thus prices of the U.S.
Gulf could be around $310 to $330 per short ton in the fourth quarter.
UAN and ammonia fill programs have already been accepted in the market and a significant amount of volume has been ordered and will be shipped over the coming months.
We believe that the UAN and ammonia fill price structure will provide a solid base for business through Q4.
With the size of our order book and the potential for rail and barge system congestion with the expected demand for transporting grain and other products this fall we will be focused on moving our product into position to satisfy existing orders and expect to have a relatively limited volume available for new orders for UAN and ammonia.
Going out into 2015 even though we have seen a decline in corn prices we believe that over 90 million acres of corn will be planted in the United States which should result in solid nitrogen demand.
Corn continues to offer farmers more attractive economics than soybeans and fertilizer costs are projected to be attractive and in line with the 10-year average as a percent of crop revenue.
Even at lower corn prices North America would still be a significant import region for nitrogen and with our unmatched portfolio of in-market production logistical assets and distribution facilities we have the flexibility to produce whatever form of nitrogen the market demands and have it into position at the appropriate time in order to sell every ton we produce.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Bert.
With the strength of our ammonia shipments and the effective work of our sales and distribution teams we generated strong earnings as represented by $613 million of EBITDA which was 42% of net sales during the quarter.
Our EBITDA was negatively affected by several items in the second quarter of 2014.
Our cost of goods sold was higher as inventory produced during the first quarter when our fixed gas costs were higher was sold and those higher gas costs made their way through our income statement.
During the second quarter of 2014 we also had higher fixed cost absorption rates in our cost of goods sold due to unscheduled downtime particularly at our Woodward complex where we incurred approximately $20 million in expenses.
Other operating expenses of approximately $22 million included $7 million specifically related to the expansion projects.
We are separating out these project expenses due to the fact that they will go away when the expansions are complete.
As Tony mentioned earlier the structural cost advantage of North American natural gas was made evident by what has happened with gas prices over the past 2 quarters.
During this winter we saw record storage withdrawals and short-term weather-related volatility in gas prices which at times traded over $5 per MMBtu on the NYMEX.
However the underpinnings of the enduring advantage of North American gas a large proven resource base increasing producer efficiencies and an expanding infrastructure of pipelines and equipment to bring gas to market resulted in a quick supply response.
Additional supply came into the market resulting in gas injection levels that have averaged over 100 billion cubic feet during each of the last 12 weeks.
In the near term gas prices which have dipped back below $4 per MMBtu since mid-July.
With the benefits provided through our hedging program our realized gas purchase price for the second quarter was $4.19 per MMBtu compared to the average Henry Hub price of $4.58.
In May we assessed the natural gas market and determined it would be appropriate to add hedges for the third quarter to mitigate our cost risk from potential short-term summer price spikes.
When the second quarter ended we had in place hedges for 90% of our gas needs for the third quarter via collars in a range of $4.25 to $4.60 per MMBtu.
Since the end of the quarter as gas prices have declined we've hedged 90% of our October gas needs with collars between $3.50 and $4 per MMBtu.
We continued our growth investments in the second quarter with $209 million of cash expenditures on our capacity expansion programs and $83 million for all other capital projects.
The capacity expansion projects are progressing on schedule and on budget.
Activity has included the completion of foundation piling the arrival of certain major equipment and the erection of structural steel which is now proceeding at both locations some of which is highlighted on the photos on Slides 5 through 8.
Construction of nonproduction facilities including urea warehouses and ammonia storage tanks is also well underway.
In conjunction with this release we are reducing our full year capital expenditure forecast from $2.5 billion to approximately $2.2 billion.
As the capacity expansion projects have progressed we've gotten a better view of timing of our expenditures and expect that some of those amounts will be incurred in 2015 rather than 2014.
We also have performance incentives in place with a number of our contractors that we are holding back until the end of the project so these expenditures won't be made until we reach completion.
We do expect to see a much higher rate of spending in the third and fourth quarters as we take deliveries of additional equipment and hit peak mechanical construction activities.
We are confident that we have the liquidity and operating cash flow to fund all of our strategic initiatives.
As of the end of the second quarter we had total liquidity of $3.8 billion including our cash and cash equivalents restricted cash for the expansion projects and availability under our revolving credit facility.
We are committed to our investment-grade credit rating as it enables us access to long-term low-cost financing and provides us the flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dennis.
As you've heard our business is running very well.
CF is generating strong margins and deploying the resulting cash flow to further increase shareholder value.
I would like especially to thank our team and distribution facilities for their exceptional work during the quarter.
Their focus on safe and efficient operations enabled us to set all-time ammonia shipping records and serve all of our customers' needs.
With that we will now open the line to answer your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Jester on for P.J.
today.
So I just wanted to follow up on Bert's comments about the urea imports into the U.S.
expected to pick up over the next coming months.
I guess are dealers hesitant to restock at today's prices? And can you maybe talk about your order book specifically for urea today as it compares to maybe this time last year? With the need to import a significant amount of urea and really all of nitrogen products into the United States I'd even add P&amp;K because of the significant drawdown that we experienced through Q2 and into Q3 we're going to have to be very active.
I think there are some challenges to make that happen due to the rail constraints and as I mentioned in my remarks the barges used where you're seeing barge pricing go up significantly.
And that will probably last through into Q4.
And so there is a need.
You can't wait until spring for any of these products to put in an order and have it magically appear in the short term.
So there is going to be a buildup.
We are seeing positive demand for our products but we are continuing in the same vein of selling more into the spot market because of the price realization that's available in that market as compared to the forward market.
We have commitments in place but they are unpriced for future demand.
So we see healthy demand and shipping of our products but we do see imports maintaining at a similar pace.
For -- regarding imports for urea compared to previous year's at this time year-to-date the numbers we have are through June the United States is roughly 600 000 tons behind the previous year's import rate.
And what you will see I think again with the drawdown you had urea going on top for extra.
As farmers were preparing for yield or applying for yield over cost you had a lot of urea and UAN going down into July -- through July.
So we still believe that the inventory levels are low and coupled with the 600 000 deficit you will need to be importing a significant amount.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then it sounds like you think that the transportation and logistics challenges are going to continue.
Does it make sense to invest even more in sort of storage capacity in-market or more truck-loading facilities so that you can be even more flexible going forward? Yes it depends on the product and we are investing for -- in terms of the facility that we have we are investing on efficiency issues safety issues and we'll continue to do so as appropriate.
But we have tons of flexibility today in terms of when you factor in looking at ammonia pipeline ability barge ability and then we will probably go rail to truck.
And with -- for urea we rely a lot on our customers' facilities.
There have been a significant amount of unit train facilities built.
We sold 4 of our assets our dry assets to GROWMARK several years ago because of that viewpoint that our customers were better utilizers of those assets than we were.
We still utilize our Pine Bend facility which is at the end of the Mississippi for receiving urea and other products.
And so I think that the investments as appropriate and as we can leverage and use them we will do that but it depends on the site and the market.
Next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to sort of square the buyback announcement with a few things.
You used to have a chart in the deck that sort of went through the amount of excess cash you thought you might generate over the next couple of years and I think you kind of could eyeball that it would look like close to $2 billion.
Notwithstanding the fact you bought back an extremely impressive amount of stock so far year-to-date just kind of curious how -- where the $1 billion number comes from and why it isn't a bigger number over a longer period of time or a smaller number or a shorter period of time.
I mean it looks like you have enough cash flow between what's on hand and what's coming in to certainly do it by the end of the year but you're talking out to '16.
So what are the puts and takes as well that will cause you to do it slower or faster? And then just as a follow-up there's been some interesting developments in the MLP market in the last months.
I'm just wondering if you have any update on your thought process there.
Yes Vincent if you look at -- if you go back to what we -- I think if you were referring to the slide that was presented in New York last year you'll all have your own view as to what operating cash flow will be over time but I think it's important to understand that that slide sort of talked about a number of priorities.
And one of our key priorities obviously is to continue to do what we're doing with our capacity expansion projects which are mid-teens returns project which is invest in those things and finish those things on time and on budget which we're on track to do.
We finished the share repurchase program that was authorized back in 2012 as you point out on an accelerated basis I think in most people's minds.
And then we've also authorized the additional $1 billion.
We will be assessing our operating cash flow and excess liquidity and stuff as we go through time.
And we'll make adjustments to the things that we do as we've done in the past.
But I think that as far as the $1 billion is concerned I think that represents like Tony said an upsizing really of the current program.
And it just continues to underline our bias towards share repurchases and our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders.
If things develop in a good way in the way we think they're going to develop there could potentially at some point in time in the future be upside.
But at this point in time there's no way we can commit to that or know that.
But we were assessing this thing on a real-time basis and we'll continue to do that.
And Vincent what I would add to that is we have historically been and continue to be a reasonably conservative company in terms of our commitments.
And so we only commit to things that we know that we can accomplish and as Dennis said front and center is our execution and completion of our capacity expansion projects.
And they are on time and on budget but you're never done until they're actually operating.
And the place where a lot of the expenditure happens is at the tail end of those things and we want to make sure that we maintain absolute financial flexibility and liquidity through start-up and operation.
And so for us it's not an issue of "Is there more?" It's more just a timing question of "Do we do it now?" or is it after we've got clear visibility to start up and things are running and then there's more liquidity to return down the road.
And so I think what you've seen from us is a measured appropriate paced cadence to this such that we're not doing anything at all to endanger our investment grade credit rating and our liquidity position.
I think that's consistent with the way that philosophically we want to run this business.
Yes Vincent you also asked about the MLP and I just wanted to let you know we have completed with the 2 banks our study of MLPs and not surprisingly because I think we've talked about this in the past.
As we look at the existing assets it does not make sense for us to sell those things into an MLP.
Obviously there's a large tax hit associated with that because they're low-tax basis assets.
So the economics of that just in and of themselves doesn't make sense.
I think as far as the capacity expansion projects are concerned it's worth noting that these capacity expansion projects are at the very core of our business.
They are not peripheral activities.
They are core to our strategy.
And in addition to that the retention value of those things when we look at the amount of DCF basis is very likely to be well in excess of anything that could be achieved by selling them into an MLP.
So while I can't say with absolute certainty that we would not look at MLP as an option for those in the future I would say that it's very unlikely because again those are assets that are at the core of our business.
Those assets will have a very high retention value and those assets also provide us with additional debt capacity when they come on in 2016 2017.
And as you know we're able to access the investment grade debt market in big chunks for yields on an after-tax basis that are very low.
So that's where we've gotten to with the MLP.
Our next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Bert question for you.
I was somewhat surprised at the high amount of ammonia sales that you had especially given that the spring was very wet and very late.
Just wondering if you can talk a bit more about that.
Was that catch-up from last fall? Was that just sort of a pricing issue? And just wondering what impact on this mix did additional sales to Mosaic have in the Tampa area.
Okay.
Yes there was an impact because of the 2013 fall application season.
We estimate there's approximately 400 000 tons that didn't go down in the United States and there was some pickup.
But what you had in Q2 was a pretty favorable price structure.
I think ammonia was a good value starting off.
We came in -- we at CF and I think the industry came in with high inventory levels.
And then the weather was very conducive.
We had an open window early in the quarter and then it was wet and cold for several weeks which allowed resupply.
Again another burst in May.
And again and then another wet cold period some resupply and then the Northern system kicked off which is Belle in the Grand Forks and the Canadian terminals that we purchased last year and we had an exceptional run up there.
So when you combine and put everything together it just worked really really well.
And then the side-dress season kicked in where there was abundant on our side at least enough inventory remaining.
And we had good pull really into early July.
The Mosaic impact was not that great.
We probably moved about I think it was 53 000 tons to Mosaic during Q2.
Our ag percentage normally were a 70/30 range.
We were more 80/20 and the Mosaic you can run the numbers it was probably about 5% of that.
So while it's nice volume we appreciate Mosaic as a customer.
It did not have a big impact on our ammonia movement.
Got it.
Just to tag along with Bert I think there's a couple of things that underlie -- drove that.
One of which is we now own 100% of the Medicine Hat facility where a year ago we were kind of just phasing into that in terms of having closed in the spring and as Bert said didn't really have full operational control of the Canadian terminals.
Two is we are seeing annualized full year effects of some of the debottlenecks we've done at our other operating ammonia plants at Verdigris and at Donaldsonville and so we've got some incremental production that's online there.
And then third is the inventory starting position coming in.
So we -- all 3 of those things in addition to the Mosaic contract led to a pretty favorable ammonia run for us.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on your gas hedging strategy.
You seem to be much more active in hedging your gas position over the last 12 months.
Some quarters it benefits you.
Some it doesn't.
I'm just wondering why you become more active and why not just take more of an approach to manage the peaks in the summer and winter months? Yes Don I think it's a great question.
Let me just talk a little bit about philosophically how we view this which is we really take hedging positions for 1 or 2 reasons either we are trying to get rid of negative volatility events or we really like the pricing in terms of where the strip is trading in the forward.
And as we sat in the third and fourth quarters of last year we took a number of hedged positions for the first and second quarters of this year really for both of those reasons.
We liked where the strip was trading and we were concerned about potential weather events.
And both of -- it turned out to be a great decision at that time because gas traded substantially above where we had hedged.
As we said in May of this year storage in North America was almost a full TCF lighter than it has been over the last 5-year average.
And we were really concerned that a hot summer with a lot of air-conditioning requirements could have sent gas market in a very volatile spikey northerly direction.
And we wanted to take that risk off the table.
And so at the time we could have locked in swaps at $4.50 or $4.52 we decided to put collars in instead in order to participate in some of the downside if our fears -- worst fears weren't realized and in fact participate down to $4.25.
And we're delighted in fact that the things have moved the direction they did.
I think it was the right decision that we made.
And again if we were sitting in May what we were really trying to do is eliminate the negative volatility consequences that are potentially out there.
And for the year we're still more than $60 million to the good based on our total hedging positions whether they be realized positions or mark-to-market in terms of where the current strip is.
So I think -- do you get every one of them right? No.
But we're not trying to actively be in there trading in order to get every one right.
What we're really trying to do is manage the negative volatility so we can deliver results to the shareholders.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Piken with Cleveland Research.
I think you'd sort of alluded to this in some of your prepared remarks but as you think about kind of the UAN market over the next 3 to 6 months it sounds like you have a comfortable position in terms of your forward book based on some of your fill participation.
How is that going to impact your export business in the back half of the year? And do you think that you have enough orders sufficiently here that you might not have to ship as much off as you did maybe in some other time periods in the past? The UAN market what we believe it's -- we're very well positioned based on our fill program the acceptance of the fill program and our customer activity and desiring to purchase more.
We've limited it to a certain quantity and we're still active in the market.
We are still selling at various points both for prompt and for forward.
But we anticipate that this market should continue to improve based on the fundamentals for the other end products.
And so exports we participate in the export market really as a third option as we have opportunities that are available to us that are attractive.
This year we've exported to Europe and to Argentina and a little bit into Mexico.
And we will continue to look at that.
We believe all 3 of those markets have continued demand but there are probably other sources of supply that make more sense for us to ship at this point.
Okay terrific.
And then just shifting gears if I could just hear you talk a little bit about the timing of when you think some the new capacity is coming online.
You indicated that Donaldsonville urea might be starting up a year from now.
I mean do you think that most of the rest of that facility will be on in time for the spring of '16 or should we be thinking that this is more of a back half '16-type event? No.
So Michael in that regard we think that within a year urea will be up and operating and approximately kind of 3 or 4 months after urea comes up and acid and UAN will be up.
We're targeting right now to be mechanically complete or close thereto on the ammonia plants by the end of next year with commissioning and startup happening in the first quarter maybe bleeding into the second quarter of '16 for the ammonia plant at D'Ville.
In terms of Port Neal what we've committed to is 2016.
We're certainly trying to manage a much more aggressive timeframe than that.
And ideally we'd like to really ramp that up and accelerate it.
But we're still a little bit earlier phase there and we got to make sure we can get through this winter and make good progress get delivery of all the critical items before we can sharpen the pen in terms of the actual start-up there.
But we're certainly internally managing to a much tighter deadline than the ones that we have committed to on the outside.
And that's why we're very comfortable saying we're on schedule because we're well ahead of what we've made external commitments about.
The next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You alluded to supply closures in Eastern Europe in various countries as well as China kind of proving out your view of the cost curve globally.
Can you speak to how much capacity might have been shuddered in the aggregate? And has any come back online recently? What's your outlook there? So in the aggregate I'm uncomfortable giving a specific number but we do follow these facilities individually as well as in terms of regions what is being exported being produced and what is online and offline.
And what you're seeing today for different reasons different plants are running or not.
Today right now in Egypt we've gone through a gas shortage where they're having to bring in LNG.
That is impacting the urea UAN and ammonia supply.
With the unrest in Russia and the Ukraine focused on the Ukraine you're seeing a significant amount of capacity offline.
And today that represents 7% to 8% of the ammonia traded supply so a pretty big impact that wasn't expected probably 6 months ago.
And the Eastern European locations is more gas-related gas cost-related so those plants flex on and off when it's attractive for them to produce and above their cash costs.
After an exhaustive study of -- an internal study we did of China segmenting the different levels of cost of production for anthracite thermal or gas producer and then laying on the logistical costs port costs labor costs it was interesting to us and how that actually functioned in real time with several of the outlying plants with a higher cost low -- smaller capacity facilities shutting down this year in May and June when we hit the levels of around $260 $255 for prilled product coming out of China.
That market has since improved.
We've seen some pricing improvement out of China for both granular and prilled.
But you can go around the world whether it's Pakistan Argentina Trinidad you got gas issues.
And so the capacity is out there yes but our opinion on the market and how people choose to produce or not have been proven correct that these high-cost facilities do shut down and we seem to find the floor and then march back up until we hit the marginal producer and they come up.
And as we mentioned Q4 urea could be in the range of $3.10 to $3.30 at the U.S.
Gulf which is an attractive range for us.
Just on that front Kevin our urea cost at $4 gas and we're below $4 currently but our urea cost for Gulf production is call it at $1.50.
If Gulf on a cash basis if Gulf urea is trading in kind of a $3.20 plus or minus range that's still pretty healthy margins for us.
So we're not -- we look at that as being a pretty favorable soft landing if that's kind of as bad as the fourth quarter is potentially shaping up to be.
I think the question for that -- it's a good price for what Tony just put out there the question for some of these new builds that are coming are being discussed in the market.
That's a pretty skinny margin for a $2 billion to $2.3 billion investment for a greenfield operation.
As we bring on our new capacity and other capacity we think the other producers that are currently in the business are bringing on we think that's a logical place for the U.S.
market or the North American market to settle and there won't be probably a lot of new announcements based on that operating range.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I guess the second question if I may.
Corn acreage obviously was down this year and you had the Woodward outage.
So your production was flat it looks like on a year-over-year basis in the quarter and yet your volumes if I add up all the product lines look like they were up about 5%.
Can you speak to your inventory levels at this point? Look like the number on your balance sheet was down quite a bit 36% year-over-year.
How lean are you relative to what you would expect for this time of the year? On the corn acre number on a percentage basis we're not down that much and what we're projecting for 2015 at 90 million acres is still healthy.
The corn on corn might be a little bit negative compared to soybeans.
But the corn against soybeans you are going to have a lot of soybean acres transitioning into corn more economically but agronomically that make sense.
When you look at the Woodward outage our exports in our whole book are very positive Q2 performance.
Our inventories are low our inventories for all products.
And when you look that in conjunction with the lower import numbers that we've received on all products ammonia urea UAN and ammonium nitrate and from what our interaction with our customers on their low inventory levels it really sets up a pretty positive operating environment through I believe 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just give us an update on your thoughts about the new nitrogen plants coming up whether you think that there's been any shift and what's likely to get built? You've talked in the past about some of the logistical challenges and I'm wondering if any of the near-term logistics have reinforced that view or whether the pressure on the rails to expand capacity might make those projects more viable? But I mean -- thanks Mark.
I think the issue is not just accessibility of power on the rails or power on the river for barge which is also under pressure right now.
As Bert said barge rates have gone through the roof.
But it's building the tanks and the terminal systems and buying the railcars and developing the rolling stock.
So as we look at the Port Neal project on a fully loaded basis as we fold it into our system based on having announced it in 2012 we're very comfortable we can deliver that project all-in for $1.7 billion.
If you are announcing that project today because of exchange rate fluctuations lead time and other cost escalations labor and so forth it would probably be close to about $2 billion.
And if that project were a greenfield we think it's been more likely be about $2.3 billion $2.4 billion.
And as Bert mentioned earlier with urea pricing in the Gulf call it in the $3.20 range through the fourth quarter the return profile that's available for a $2.4 billion project is pretty skinny.
So we think that there are some people that are likely to go out there and continue to evaluate these projects.
But the number of them that are likely to come online is less than what North America imports.
So we don't see North America going into a structurally long or export position by 2018 or even 2020.
Greenfield costs are so much more because you don't have the logistics systems to feed into.
You don't have the direct ties to the rail systems the gas pipelines the utility lines and so forth.
So it really is a tough thing to do on a greenfield basis.
And so we feel very comfortable having the brownfield position that we do and having started the projects when we are -- I think it's possible that you could get a Yara BASF kind of plants being built and a few others like that but the number of brand-new greenfield in-market plants we think is pretty challenged and in particular the one that was announced in Indiana for what was claimed to be $1.6 billion I take the over on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just look out a little bit further you've obviously got your hands full with expansions and people like your current expansion and buyback thing but we're hearing more and more CEOs as we look around the world talk about opportunities outside the U.S.
It's been a long time since CF has talked about looking outside the U.S.
Is that something that's on your longer-term list of interest? I think this is the way we view it which is the global nitrogen market is incredibly fragmented.
The largest players in the industry only represent 4% to 5% of the total capacity in the marketplace.
So it's really really fragmented.
And traditionally capital-intensive process businesses tend to consolidate over time.
And we believe we're in a great position to do it.
But we have no interest in going into places that don't have great return profiles for our shareholders.
We think our stock represents an incredible value and deploying that capital against high-growth high-return growth projects in North America where there's low political risks and a long-term stable gas availability we -- and/ or buying our shares back we think is a pretty compelling proposition.
So I wouldn't say never but it's not something that we're out there doing at all costs.
Anything that we do in that regard would have to have a great return profile.
Otherwise we're just not interested in doing it.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Gulley with BGC Partners.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible]project at least in the farm belt is proceeding and that's because of substantial grants from the state.
So for those people that still want to build a greenfield plant Tony and given the fact that you still have available land let's say for example Port Neal would it make sense even at this juncture to be looking at partnering with somebody putting the capital on your site and then having a vigorous offtake agreement? Mark it's Dan Swenson.
The first part of your question didn't come through on the line.
Can you repeat the beginning of it? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just asking that there are some people out there that still want to build greenfield plants yet the economics don't look good.
So connecting the dots would it make sense to put another ammonia urea train perhaps at Port Neal and partner up with someone who wanted to build a greenfield but just couldn't make the numbers work.
Yes we have no interest in helping facilitate other's entry into this marketplace.
If the capacity is needed in the market and there's good economics we think we're fully able to justify building the project on our own and for the benefit of our own shareholders.
And as Dennis said each one of these things just further enhances our ability to fund it with or take on some additional debt service and capital.
So we think we can do it if the marketplace desires it.
It's really a question about does the market need it and is the return profile attractive for us to do it.
And we are fully committed right now.
We don't have the bandwidth to be chasing those things.
So we're going to finish what we've started and then reevaluate where we're at then be very thoughtful about it.
But I'm going to turn it over to Bert and let him talk a little bit about the market.
Yes I think where the market perspective we have a very solid customer base so we work closely with our customers based on their requirements for the products that we produce and we have contracts in place and take patterns to make sure that our product move seamlessly through to the end of the market.
On top of that what we've talked about our distribution system for UAN and ammonia that works very very well that our customers are able to utilize.
But if we had to make a move into the market and acquire or build storage in some of the key markets to move our product we're willing to do that.
That's a very inexpensive way to move our product if we had to do let's say urea into certain markets.
Port Neal is targeted toward some very attractive urea consumption market in the Dakotas and that we think Donaldsonville will come up into the lower part of the United States then you have Medicine Hat.
So we're well positioned to supply all areas of the major consumption regions and through debottlenecks or whatever else we can add additional capacity fairly inexpensively.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And kind of a housekeeping question.
To what extent that the Woodward outage affect production or more importantly shipments? Could you have shipped more had Woodward outage not occur? Yes we could have.
It did -- we lost several months of production.
We were down in mid-April didn't come back until late June really for only July shipments.
And so it did negatively impact our ability and that product would've gone into the market.
And so we tend to run our plants full speed all the time and get that product end of the market on a ratable basis.
Yes I mean we lost that plant for almost the entire quarter and that directly affected results both on the expense line side and the fact that we didn't have the revenue coming out of it.
Even that said though we did run our entire system at 96% of rated capacity on the ammonia side.
We target closer to 98% or 99%.
We think that that's what readily achievable quarter in and quarter out because there's always going to be some amount of turnaround activity and/or some amount of just unexpected outage.
So a couple of points below but the good news I guess if there is any there was that: one Woodward is one of our smaller ammonia plants and facilities; two we didn't have any injuries or other kind of problems and we were able to bring the plant back up and it's in full operation now.
So we're back kind of up and running on all cylinders.
The next question comes from the line of Tim Tiberio with Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean in light of your forecast for lower year-over-year corn acreage is there any appetite or interest in trying to layer in more industrial exposure as we head into 2015 to maybe smooth out what could potentially be increased volatility in ag chemical prices? Tim we look at industrial business as an important part of our platform and I'm going to turn it over to Bert here a little bit to jump into more detail.
But I'll tell you we like the ag market.
It generally trades at a premium to industrial.
Now you have to have the logistics and distribution infrastructure.
You have to have that expertise in your sales force and your other people to be able to participate in that.
And some competitors say they prefer industrial because they don't like the volatility.
Well the volatility is all on the positive side relative to industrial.
It doesn't go the other direction.
So all you have to do is look at what some of the other people who like industrial's price realization is versus ours and you see the benefit of being in the ag marketplace.
So I would much prefer to be there but we do do some base-loading of industrial business because it's part -- helpful to building an overall book of business.
I think -- this is Bert.
As you've seen us transition since the Terra acquisition from a very low level of industrial business to I would say an appropriate amount today it's really as we look at the business and you're always rationalizing your opportunities and looking at them and choosing what is the best medium and long-term for the company.
And so that's a mix of ag industrial and exports.
And we've exported all 4 of our nitrogen products.
We have industrial customers for all those products also except UAN.
We enjoy our Mosaic contract and look forward to building and growing into that.
Our Orica contract that will grow beginning in 2017 is a very good contract.
And then our various agreements for ammonia shipments throughout the United States and North America.
And so it's a good mix for us.
We are able to leverage our assets and we think achieve a healthy return on our investment because of that mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last question if I may.
More detailed question on mid-Corn Belt ammonia pricing.
If you go back to 2009 and kind of a similar corn price environment obviously acreage was well below 90 million acres that year.
But we still saw several quarters where that premium in mid-Corn Belt ammonia really collapsed almost near urea prices.
As we look out is there any reason why that would not reoccur from your perspective? And if so why not? I don't see that happening.
You just got a different market today than 2009.
If you want to go back to 2009 ammonia traded in the U.S.
Gulf at $125 a ton because people were desperate to get rid of their ammonia.
That was more of an economic and a wholesale collapse in the commodities segment.
I don't see that happening today.
And the Corn Belt has actually held firm and it will continue to do so.
And why that is is the freight structure has changed in North America.
You can no longer move ammonia for $30 a ton in a railcar halfway across United States.
That's more like $200 a ton.
And so the ability to move your product and have the terminals and again going back to our system the percentage that goes up by pipe that is very safe and through our system that had shipped out by truck directly to a local market and then it's moved by barge which we have barge ability directly into our terminals are on the river systems as well as out of Palmyra to shuttle product back and forth during peak demand and what we're doing is moving product off the rails of ammonia.
And so I think that there is a demand for ammonia.
It's an agronomically very good product when you're utilizing the 4Rs which the TFI and the CFI have been propagating and communicating to our industry.
And so I see ammonia continuing as a very strong product in our product portfolio.
Tim the other thing I would say is there's been some shifts in terms of how the market is operating.
So you've seen a number of industry participants some of our competitors that have done upgrade projects and other things like that that have in fact shrunken the amount of available ammonia there is in the Corn Belt.
And so -- because that product now shows up in terms of urea or UAN.
So the number of tons that are available in the marketplace are actually less.
And it's not really possible for importers to come in and bring in ammonia because they don't have in-market storage.
It's only really 3 producers that have a significant in-market storage.
And therefore when in-market production goes down the way it has because more of it's being upgraded it really means that there's not the opportunity for that price collapse.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Korn with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I'll just ask the one.
Tony I remember comments you made last year about you saw CF as really a global company that it was fortunate to have its assets located in North America.
And so thinking globally among Ukraine instability Russian sanctions Middle East conflict Argentine turmoil I mean maybe your typical summer but what do you see as having the biggest potential geopolitically to maybe disrupt your business over the next few years? Is it some kind of Chinese-Russian natural gas agreement? Would it be trade barriers that pop up somewhere? Or all this do you really see as maybe having the potential for continued prolonged constraints on effective supply? Yes.
I actually think it's more the second part of that which is at the end of the day people need to eat plants require nitrogen it is not a discretionary nutrient and farmers understand that and apply it every year.
We see nitrogen demand continuing to go up about 2% per year.
And in fact all of the things that you're talking about which create various supply disruptions at different points in the world really just help us.
And our -- one of the benefits of being a global participant but with a North American production base is we are not prone to the same kind of instability and disruption that those other areas are.
And if the Brazilians need to import more nitrogen and are willing to pay a premium for it we're in a prime position to be able to ship it to them.
So we really like-- have our asset base and where our new production is going to start coming online here pretty soon.
And it gives us the flexibility of either serving North American farmers' needs or Latin American or other places.
So a lot of the stuff that's going on out there is actually I think pretty helpful for our business over the long run.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just one question on the dividend Tony.
Maybe if you talk about kind of targeting a dividend yield in line with the S&amp;P where you just took it to $6 a share actually gets it a little bit above the S&amp;P today.
But just philosophically on a long-term basis I mean once the capacity expansions are done what is the planned dividend payout or how are you thinking about expanding the payout ratio over time? Yes.
I think it's more at that point more of a payout ratio that we'll be kind of focusing at right now.
As Dennis mentioned earlier we think our shares continue to be a screaming value.
And so we think we need to be kind of in the right range.
And again I'm targeting sort of 1.5% to 2% because look we've got 25% of additional capacity that's going to be coming online here in the next -- beginning within a year from now.
And so we think there's an awful lot of runway for our shares to move and put us back into that range.
And again given that we think our shares are a big value we want to make sure that we have a bias in the short term towards share repurchase.
As the capacity comes online and as we start generating these really significant increases in cash flow generation I think it's -- and with the drop-off on CapEx it warrants a reevaluation of how we position us with respect to both industry peers and the marketplace and what our shareholders are looking for.
But I think the important point here is we're not doing anything stupid.
We're returning all of the shares and the people that are long-term holders are very thankful that we're heavy-ing up on the share repurchases because it's benefiting them pretty substantially.
So we're going to go ahead and continue to keep the dialogue open with shareholders but our focus is return excess capital.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions today.
I would like to turn the call back to Tony Will for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Just want to give a little perspective on the last few years.
So we have and we continue to increase the capacity of our business through high return investments.
We completed the sale of our Phosphate segment.
We've lowered the cost of capital through our investment grade bond offerings.
We've grown our dividends by a compound annual growth rate of 62% since our IPO.
And we've reduced our share count by 32% since funding the Terra acquisition just 4 years ago.
It's a terrific set of accomplishments one we are committed to continuing on behalf of our shareholders.
Thank you for your time today.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Grace I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And with me are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development; and Chris Bohn our Vice President Supply Chain Gas and Logistics.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its third quarter 2014 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed in Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
CF Industries reported EBITDA of $338 million for the third quarter and adjusted EBITDA of over $1.4 billion for the first 9 months of 2014.
Revenues were $921 million for the quarter with nitrogen sales volumes 3% higher year-over-year on a comparable basis.
Our top line performance was solid and we were pleased with both our volume and pricing for the quarter.
EBITDA results were lower than the prior year period due to a few distinct items.
While Dennis will get into more specifics about these items a primary factor was the higher cost of fiscal gas during the early summer of 2014.
Those higher gas costs made their way through our income statement in the third quarter along with losses we incurred on derivative positions that settled during the quarter.
This combination resulted in gas costs that were $36 million higher than the year-ago period.
Although there is period-to-period variability in our results it is really the longer-term nature of this business as measured over the full year that is important.
Quarterly comparisons vary for many reasons including weather impacts.
Is the spring early or late? Is the ammonia application window Q1 or Q2? When does planting occur? And how does the crop mature? And among others gas cost.
A lot of analytic horsepower is spent on dissecting quarterly results and trying to define what those results suggest about the trends and health of the business and what that portends for the future.
However in this business quarterly comparisons hold little insight.
Our top line was solid while period EBITDA was impacted by gas and other costs.
Higher gas cost from early summer hold no bearing on where the market is today.
In fact November NYMEX gas settled at $3.73 per MMBtu.
Although I'll ask Bert and Dennis to dive into the details of the quarter shortly I want to spend a few moments to reflect on the big drivers of our business those that affect full year results and also the longer-term outlook: One demand for nitrogen; two pricing dynamics; and three cost structure.
The fundamental demand characteristics for nitrogen are strong.
We estimate 90 million acres of corn will be planted in North America in 2015.
Farmers have strong balance sheets and are generating solid cash flow based on high yields this year.
As they look forward to 2015 corn provides a positive return over variable cost and also over soybeans.
Analysis from leading agricultural schools shows that U.S.
farmers have the lowest delivered cost basis and the most attractive returns over variable cost of farmers anywhere in the world including compared to Argentina Brazil and the Ukraine.
With U.S.
farmers positioned at the low end of the corn production cost curve we are confident in the long-term associated nitrogen demand in North America.
We also have confidence in the long-term pricing dynamics of nitrogen.
Nitrogen is not an industry where product pricing can collapse overnight by the action of one company.
It is also not an industry with large fixed cost structures and big shutdown and restart costs that beckon to producers to gut it out and keep running through times with negative margins.
Instead nitrogen is an economically rational industry where direct feedstock costs are typically 70% or more of the cash cost of production.
It is an industry where producers shut down when product prices are below cash costs as was the case recently in parts of Eastern Europe and China.
Nitrogen is an industry that adheres to a global cost curve where product prices below cash cost of marginal producers are not sustainable.
We have repeatedly tested the global cost curve over the past 2 years and found that it stands the test of time.
So we are confident in pricing dynamics as well.
Although a severe and prolonged winter drove gas cost to the highest levels in recent years during the first half of 2014 North American gas producers were quick to respond.
Gas production has increased over 3 Bcf per day compared to last year and gas storage levels are now on a comfortable zone given the increased rate of production.
The NYMEX forward curve is priced near $4 per MMBtu through 2018 with no sight of a calendar $5 price until after 2026.
As a result we are very confident in the long-term stable characteristics of our cost base.
This access to low-priced natural gas continues to be a true differentiator and competitive advantage for CF Industries.
The persistent demand for nitrogen the only non-discretionary nutrient coupled with rational industry pricing dynamics and a significant structural cost advantage provide a strong economic incentive to run our plants at full rates every single day making every ton we can.
While there will be quarterly variations based on short-term weather dynamics and our decisions about the timing of when we sell our inventory over a longer wavelength perspective like a full year we will tend to sell every ton of product we make.
And every ton of that cost-advantaged product generates a significant amount of cash.
Even with gas costs at recent highs through the first half of 2014 and product prices forcing some high-cost producers to curtail we still generated 40% gross margins from our North American production system through the first 9 months of the year.
As a reminder of the annual cash generating ability of our business please refer to Slide 5 in our presentation materials which is a page that was taken directly from our June 2013 Investor Day presentation.
This slide shows nitrogen cash operating earnings at various urea and natural gas prices.
Although this slide is representative of our business in 2014 it will not be accurate beyond this year as our 2015 results will reflect additional product volumes and the associated cash operating earnings as our new capacity expansion projects come on stream beginning next year.
In the future we will provide an updated slide like this one for 2017 the first full year of production for all of the new capacity.
Now let me turn the call over to Bert and Dennis to provide a deeper discussion of our operations during the quarter.
Bert? Thanks Tony.
Global nitrogen markets trended well during the quarter.
As we had expected earlier in the year the U.S.
and international markets moved toward parity as both gas curtailments and further [ph] production constraints in a number of regions tightened supply.
At the same time robust ammonia shipments and inventory depletion in the U.S.
and strong urea shipments to India and South America supported the market.
Ammonia prices strengthened during the quarter showing tightness in the market.
Corn Belt prices moved from $610 per short ton at the beginning to $650 at the end of the quarter.
While we picked up some of the benefit of this move we also had a significant amount of sales from our order book priced at the lower level seen in June and July prior to when the outages tightened the market and caused the prices to increase.
A heavy volume of industrial sales also impacted our average pricing due to the Mosaic contract sales and the lower mix of ag sales that normally occur in the quarter.
Participating in the spot urea market continued to be a positive decision for us as there was good demand in the Southern Plains for winter wheat and we sold urea for prompt delivery.
Along with this domestic demand prices at the U.S.
Gulf were also supported by the international markets.
These international prices were higher than a year ago due to purchasing activity in South America and India tender activity in addition to the high level of global production outages.
Chinese producers suffered heavy losses during the second and third quarters which drove them back -- to back out of contractual commitments in some urea sales from the second quarter.
This demonstrates to us the move toward economically-driven decisions in the utilization of their production and their attempt to develop a solid price floor for urea.
For UAN we had a healthy amount of sales from our large order book and we chose to export some UAN in order to balance our system and continue to grow our international footprint.
Our DES and other products saw good growth characteristics during the quarter as well.
We are looking forward to the fourth quarter and 2015.
The economics for U.S.
farmers for growing corn continue to be attractive and offer a premium over soybeans.
With drought conditions in Brazil and the potential for late planting of their second-crop corn concern is developing that corn production from that area of the world will be reduced which will have the effect of increasing demand for U.S.
corn in the international market.
We see this showing up in corn prices which are now on the rise from their harvest lows.
With an expected 90 million of acres of corn to be planted we should see healthy nitrogen demand through the first half of 2015.
That demand is clearly evident in ammonia movement and price in the northern tier in Western Canada.
Weather has been conducive to applications and ammonia has been moving out of our tanks at a rapid pace such as at our Vanscoy Saskatchewan terminal which set a new record for shipments in a single year.
Ammonia prices of around $650 to $680 per short ton as quoted in industry publications is indicative of strong demand in those Northern areas.
One near-term item that we are mindful of is our tight inventory level and level of planned outages during the fourth quarter along with our unplanned outage at Woodward.
These will limit our production and tons available for sale such that excluding our deliveries from our Trinidad production to Mosaic we are likely to have fourth quarter ammonia sales volume similar to last year.
Additionally our unplanned outage at Woodward will result in lost production which could have an impact of approximately $20 million of loss cash operating earnings during the fourth quarter.
This is on top of the loss cash operating earnings around $27 million from the outage earlier in the year.
However we are confident that healthy ammonia prices will support pricing on upgraded products and with limited availability of ammonia upgraded products such as urea and UAN are likely to experience higher demand once we move into 2015.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Bert.
Beginning this quarter we have changed our segment reporting moving from 2 segments Nitrogen and Phosphate to 4 Nitrogen Product segments: ammonia urea UAN and other along with Phosphate.
The Phosphate segment will continue to appear until there are no prior year results to be shown but the separation of Nitrogen into 4 reporting segments demonstrate our focus on Nitrogen as our core business and our commitment to transparency to enable investors to better understand our operations.
In the third quarter we generated $338 million of EBITDA on sales of $921 million.
This compares to $478 million of EBITDA in 2013 or $450 million excluding the $28 million of gross profit in the Phosphate segment.
As Tony discussed although our top line performance was solid EBITDA results were lower than the prior year period due to a few distinct items.
Our cost of goods sold was affected by both losses on natural gas collar transactions that settled during the quarter and the higher cost of natural gas that made its way through inventory and cost of goods sold.
These dynamics of our natural gas cost bear closer denomination.
First when our derivative positions settle the realized gains or losses from those derivatives impact the cost of goods sold line immediately in the quarter in which that derivatives settle.
Our third quarter 2014 cost of goods sold included a loss of $20 million on the natural gas collars that settled that quarter.
We entered into these collars during June and July when gas storage was low and gas prices as indicated on Slide 11 were much higher due to the risk of a hot summer and associated peaks in power demand.
The losses on the derivatives were due to the subsequent decline in gas prices by the time those hedges settled during the third quarter.
From a fundamental perspective lower natural gas prices are a positive for our business.
It is worth noting that on a 9-month year-to-date basis we have realized net gains of $64 million on our settled gas derivative positions as represented on Slide 11.
These significant gains provide evidence of the beneficial impact of our hedging programs in reducing volatility in gas pricing especially during winter months.
Second the cost of the physical gas we use to produce nitrogen moves into inventory when we purchase the gas as indicated on Slide 10.
It is only when we sell that inventory that the cost of that gas then flows through to cost of goods sold.
Because of how much ammonia inventory we hold at times of the year and because of the seasonal nature of when we sell agricultural ammonia the physical cost of natural gas purchased in 1 quarter can show up in cost of goods sold in later quarters.
As we look at the third quarter the ammonia we sold during the quarter was generally produced in the June July time frame.
As you look at the Henry Hub first of month settlement prices graphed on Slide 10 you can see that gas was priced on average around the $4.50 level across the period.
Those prices are more indicative of the cost of goods sold for the physical gas that flowed through our income statement during the quarter than were the Henry Hub average market prices within the quarter.
During the quarter we also recorded approximately $24 million in expenses for certain other items.
These items included higher storage costs.
Previously these costs were inventories and appeared in the cost of goods sold when the tons were sold.
We now expense these costs when incurred.
This changes an item that negatively affects the third quarter and will not impact future quarters.
The other items also included incrementally lower margins due to a mix of sales from purchase product versus manufactured product and pension benefits settlement charges that occurred during the quarter.
Other operating expenses were impacted by a swing from a $22 million gain on foreign currency derivatives to a loss of $27 million due to the dollar strengthening against the euro.
This impact to earnings is offset by the stronger purchasing power we have in buying euro-denominated equipment and engineering services for the expansion projects.
The projects are progressing well as construction activity remained on time and in line with budget expectations.
You can see from the pictures in our earnings materials that a significant number of vessels have been set in place at Donaldsonville and we are nearing completion of critical foundation work in Port Neal so that we can continue with mechanical construction through the winter.
Our capital expenditure projection for the year stands at $2 billion consisting of $1.6 billion for the capacity expansion projects and $400 million for sustaining CapEx.
The reduction from our previous estimate of $1.7 billion for the expansion projects represents a change in timing of payments not a change in the overall project budgets or schedules.
Finally as we move into the fourth quarter we have seen attractively priced gas making its way into inventory.
We have also entered into collars for 90% of our gas needs through the first quarter of 2015 with floor prices averaging $3.41 per MMBtu and ceiling prices averaging $4.25.
These hedges and the fixed bases differentials we have in place for our Port Neal and Courtright complexes have taken any significant winter gas price risks off the table.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dennis.
Many of you may have observed the news flow related to our recently terminated merger discussions with Yara.
I think it's important to provide a little perspective on those discussions.
The discussions were for CF borne out of a position of strength.
We have a well-defined very specific business plan centered on our capacity expansions the first operating unit of which will begin production within 10 months.
Our plan is tangible observable and requires no heroic assumptions nor leaps of faith.
The plan informs our view of the intrinsic value of CF Industries which we believe is substantially above the price at which our share is currently trading.
As a management team it is incumbent on us to execute our business plan but also to look for opportunities that will increase shareholder value above our plan.
We engaged in the discussions with a strongly held and well-formed view of the value that should be attributable to CF Industries' shareholders in appreciation of the strong cash flow generation of a company especially given the significant uplift in cash flow which will occur as the expansion projects come online.
Although we were jointly able to identify operational and structural synergies significantly higher than any of the published estimates we saw ultimately we were not able to agree on terms that would have met the requirements of all the respective shareholders.
Specifically in the one and only metric that matters we did not believe that CF Industries' shareholders would have been rewarded above and beyond our current business plan on a risk-adjusted basis.
As a result we ended the discussions.
I would again like to thank the management team of Yara for their professionalism and their time.
I hold their team in high regard.
In terms of what is next for CF Industries we will continue to execute our business plan to realize the significant value we believe is embedded in it.
The future is directly in front of us and largely within our control.
We are confident in our belief that executing our plan will deliver significant value creation to our shareholders.
We are focused on increasing cash flow per share by investing in high-return projects and otherwise returning excess cash to shareholders through an attractive dividend and robust share repurchase programs.
With that we will now open the line to answer your questions.
Grace? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you just give us a little bit more perspective on the remaining CapEx in terms of you're on time you're on budget what are the risks that remain between here and getting Donaldsonville started up in less than 10 months and then ultimately Port Neal? What are you concerned about? Is it labor? Is it labor costs? Is it weather over the winter? What should we be paying attention to? We actually feel pretty good about delivery schedule of all the major equipment.
Let's start off with diesel first because that's the one that's closest.
Then the urea plant should be starting up end of the second quarter beginning of the third quarter next year.
The issues out there really we have seen a little bit of a tightening in the labor market.
With more and more projects coming online there is some competition.
But we believe we can put in place provisions to adequately address that and make sure we've got the right number of resources on site.
We do have contingency funds built into both of our projects to anticipate escalation of labor cost that frankly we thought may have happened before this.
So labor is one issue but I think we can address it.
The other one as you mentioned is weather.
When it rains a lot diesel things get real soupy it's tough to make a lot of forward progress.
But we don't anticipate that really getting in the way between us and our anticipated start time.
Relative to Port Neal again we feel good about vessel deliveries and critical equipment.
We need to make sure we've got all the foundation support and ready to get into steel erection during the winter months so we can make good forward progress there.
But if anything we feel that there's a little more cushion in the Port Neal time frame based on the commitments we've made to the market versus the progress that we're making.
So we're not anticipating any real challenges without meeting that schedule.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up to that if I'm thinking about this correctly sort of hitting the time line and staying on budget as sort of the gating event for how you're thinking about using your cash flow and your balance sheet whether it's for buybacks or increasing the dividend or what have you.
So it sounds like you're progressing sort of hitting your margin and hitting your targets and perhaps there was no buyback in the quarter because you were in discussions with Yara but is that the right way to think about things? And as we progress through the next 6 months would you anticipate that you'll continue to follow sort of the pattern of the last year or so where when you -- or as things are progressing according to plan and schedule it seems to free up some of your desire to use the balance sheet or to use your cash flow.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
I think that's a good characterization of where we are.
We as I said in my prepared remarks believe that our shares don't reflect the intrinsic value of the company.
And so we're absolutely buyers and we'll execute that as appropriate as we go forward.
And our next question is from Don Carson from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A question for Bert just wondering about what your thoughts are in building the forward order book.
You've told us what you expect to happen in ammonia for Q4.
Maybe you could make some comments on how you're positioned in urea and UAN? And as you look forward to next spring are you anticipating that we missed some applications this fall because of weather and that leads to very tight spring nitrogen market and just wondering if so what -- how you're positioned to benefit from that? Good morning and thanks.
So for our order book what we communicated we're well-positioned through this year and into Q1 on UAN.
We took a summer fill program through July and since have built on that program and we'll continue to do so.
We have in place our own inventory system that we can also place product in in preparation for the spring.
So for UAN we're fairly confident of where we are and where the market will be and our ability to supply.
On urea as I mentioned we have been generally spot sellers as the -- during Q2 and Q3 as the North American market traded above the international market.
We were able to capture a positive price spread for the company.
That has since come to parity and as we roll out of Q4 and into the Q1 we expect that probably could continue but we've continued to be spot sellers.
And if that were to change then we might take a different tact and do some forward selling.
So right now the U.S.
is a little bit below the international market so I would say we'll see a rising market going through Q1 and into Q2 for urea.
On ammonia I think the whole system has been a little bit short of product.
Looking at data from TSI and just some industry feedback from the market from our sales team that seems to be the case and that's reflected in higher pricing where the Midwest market is at $650 to $680 a short ton in the I [ph] states.
And so I think as you go through Q4 you'll probably have as we've presented that we expect to hit last year's numbers which were little underwhelming compared to historic ability part of that is reflected in our large Q1 and Q2.
We had a record ammonia application record ammonia pull almost 1.7 million tons through the first half of 2014 and I think our -- the whole industry had that same type of situation.
So the ammonia -- that extra ammonia is just not available.
So we expect pricing to be fairly positive going through Q2 next year and we'll fully utilize our distribution system to capture that.
On the spring I think I just mentioned about your question on missed applications of ammonia being tight I think I already mentioned that.
So we're fairly positive going into 2015.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And again with missed applications and logistical difficulties both rail barge and terminals would you expect quite a potential fly up in prices because -- next spring it sounds like that's what you're positioning your business for? On the fly up in prices I think with -- we'll just have a massive amount of corn coming in right now.
I'll let you turn the logistical question over to Chris.
Yes from a logistic standpoint we've done several things.
This was something that we anticipated happening coming out of last winter so there's really 4 things we did and that is we began to position our product earlier.
We repositioned a lot of our assets.
One thing we talk a lot about here at CF is just the flexibility of our distribution assets and our logistics assets so we are able to lean on that a little bit more than some of our competitors or other industry participants.
And we continue to have an intense amount of conversations with our carriers both from a barge and a rail to let them know where we're going.
And then again given the flexibility we look at alternative modes whether it be barge or rail.
So I think for the most part while we see some blips in some of the movements there's nothing that's really concerned us or affected customer deliveries at all.
And our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Research Division</strong> You seem to have changed your strategy on hedging.
In the first 2 quarters you were hedging at a one price level.
In the third and fourth quarter you're hedging with these collars.
So what is the logic behind the change in strategy if I understand it correctly? And then also what is the cost of these collars? So P.J.
one of the issues in the -- coming out of the third and fourth quarters of last year we were pretty happy with the absolute price level that we saw which was a Henry Hub deck of I think $3.66 in the first quarter and $3.55 in the second.
As we got into the back end the third quarter of this year and we saw the dramatic increase in production and the fact that storage was rapidly building still down relative to the 5-year average but it was close to 3.5 TCF and the fact that the increased rate of gas production continues at a high level our view was if the winter was moderate there could be a lot of opportunity for our prices to continue to soften through the winter months in the first quarter.
So we wanted to be able to participate in the softening or the potential for a softening gas market.
At the same time as put an absolute ceiling on the top end of our cost structure.
So that was why we entered into collars as opposed to fixed swap -- fixed price swaps and on the pricing of the collars I'll ask Chris to...
Yes.
The pricing of the collars from a premium standpoint were about $0.10 to $0.15 depending on -- we layered in several different layers of the collars for an average of $3.41 to $4.25.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly Tony you've talked about this cost curve and that it's held quite well in the past cycles.
I was wondering if you can give us a quick update on where did the high cost China producers stand today on that cost curve? And also an update on Ukraine and the gas situation there? Okay.
Well I'm going to ask Dennis to talk about Ukraine and what's going on there but I think a fair bit of that is political unrest and uncertainty.
But Dennis do you want to...
Yes.
I mean obviously we don't know what's going to happen there but to the degree that we see producers getting their gas curtailed because gas pump cuts them back for political reasons or the case -- or whatever the case may be.
We're going to obviously see curtailments and therefore less supply into the marketplace.
The other thing that works against us to some degree is that if people have -- are getting gas and those gases are oil linked you'll see people getting somewhat cheaper gas because of the lower oil price.
So the way I would kind of look at it is we don't know exactly what's going to happen in Ukraine and how the political events there are going to affect availability in pricing.
But we do know that as we look back here over the past 6 months that with respect to curtailments in Eastern Europe and other places generally that has resulted in constricted supply and higher prices as Bert described in his prepared remarks.
And P.J.
based on where we see from a cost curve perspective we estimate that China is kind of in that $3.30 to $3.50 per metric on a delivered basis and -- I'm sorry on a fab [ph] basis and Ukraine is sort of similarly in about a $3.40 to $3.50 per metric basis as well.
And today the price is about kind of $3.20-ish $3.30-ish.
And so there's a number of those producers that are having a hard time making money or even operating at those rates.
And I would suggest for granular $3.20.
The market for prilled today is in the $2.90 to $2.95 if you've seen from the Indian tenders.
This is Bert.
And what you're seeing is what Tony referenced as the negative returns for these companies and then the ratchet down on your average operating rate which is below 70%.
What that means is that people aren't operating and we're seeing that reflected in the volume of product going into the bonded warehouses or not going into the bonded warehouses.
Now we're projecting that China will be exporting between 10 million and 11 million tons for this year which is a higher rate but they had additional capacity that came online and so longer-term we see that rationalizing and decreasing if the pricing stays at this level.
And Bert of those 10 or 11 tons how much is that granular versus prilled? I don't have that exact number but it's mostly prilled untreated prilled.
And P.J.
although the untreated prill does come out and it certainly does take nutrient kind of content away from other people it's not a product that is generally received in many parts of the world.
It's only a few specific markets that actually are willing to deal with the Chinese prills.
So it has some overhang but it's not directly comparable or affects the U.S.
market on a one-for-one basis.
And our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Tony if we look out over the next couple of years it would seem that there's a fair amount of nitrogen capacity expected to come online globally.
On the other hand the capacity that's already here isn't running very well as you illustrate on Slide #9.
So can you give us a sense of what is driving these elevated levels of outage? How much might be geopolitics versus maybe assets in the West that have just been running too hard for too long? And how do you expect operating rates to trend in all of this? Yes Kevin that's a great question.
In nitrogen we have been in a supply-driven market condition for about a year now or maybe a little more than that.
And so we are actually operating as opposed to a demand-driven situation where people are bidding up tons above marginal cost.
It really is being driven off of marginal cost of production.
And I think some of the outages due to political unrest you'd expect those things to moderate over time but some outages are really due to gas availability.
So for instance Egypt Oman Trinidad there are a number of places in the world where there are just physically gas shortages to be able to run the assets at full rates.
In the West it really has probably been more a maintenance or unplanned operational outages that have caused curtailments; it's certainly not an economic driver.
But even in China I think they brought on something in the neighborhood of about 20 million tons of urea production in the last 3 or 4 years and I think they've taken about 5 million to 6 million tons permanently offline in the last year.
And so although there will continue to be new capacity brought online what you're going to end up seeing is shedding assets at the very highest end of the cost curve.
And the point that I want to reinforce is even though the market in nitrogen is operating in a supply-driven arena and North American gas costs were a little high we still generated 40% gross margins in those conditions.
Underlying that on positives going forward there will continue to be ongoing market demand growth for nitrogen both in the industrial applications and some on the agricultural side.
And we're seeing North America continue to be an important marketplace through the end of this decade.
Research Division</strong> Second question would be regarding your MOE discussions with Yara.
Maybe 2 parts.
First was it the inability to settle on a specific number that caused you to discontinue the negotiations or were there structural barriers that were problematic such as tax or perhaps both? And then second I think you made a comment that your synergy numbers were projected to be much higher than the published estimates that you saw from The Street.
What do you think The Street was missing? So Kevin there has been an awful lot of talk and discussion about things like tax inversions and so forth.
And we very early on had conversations with the IRS and got an indication from them that they viewed this not as an inversion transaction but actually as traditional cross-border M&amp;A.
So there was nothing here that was out of the ordinary and therefore there was no kind of regulatory or structural impediments from that perspective going forward.
But what I think the market may not have recognized as much is all of the areas where there really were an awful lot of overlap or opportunities to rationalize.
So people that are spending the time looking at these things realize that Yara moves an awful lot of products out of Europe into North America.
And in fact we export a fair bit of product out of North America and send it the other direction.
We literally have ships passing in the middle of the night.
If you look at their Belle Plaine facility and how it would have fit into our North American asset base and distribution structure it would have been a really nice add.
And they are quite a bit product short in Latin America and for us Donaldsonville it's $30 to $35 to move product into the Corn Belt.
It's $30 to $35 to move it down into Brazil and Argentina.
And when we move it offshore we could have structured it through some offshore trading companies in a way that would have been very very tax efficient.
And I don't know that people really kind of stepped back and understood what the current tax laws are and the opportunity.
We're paying tax on a marginal rate almost 35% and we certainly could have put that in a different sphere being located in a different tax regime.
So I think people missed all of those things.
And I don't want to get into the nitty-gritty of kind of why things didn't happen but I would just characterize it as at the end of the day we feel we've got a terrific value proposition from our standalone business plan.
And given all of the puts and takes that were on the table we didn't think on a risk-adjusted basis it was going to end up being a good deal for CF shareholders relative to what we can offer them today.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Parkinson with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You hit on a little of this but on Slide 9 you go over the last 5 years of reported outages in both ammonia and urea.
Can you just go over your current view for the 2015 particularly in Trinidad and also the Middle East and North Africa region? Yes Chris I'll ask Bert to opine as well and Dennis but I -- look I don't think Trinidad has done anything to structurally solve the gas availability issue going into Point Lisas.
And I don't know that there's a quick fix on the horizon.
So I would anticipate there being ongoing gas curtailments going forward.
In Trinidad that could be in the 10% to 15% of production range.
Relative to Middle East and North Africa you still don't really have recognized sort of basis of power and influence in some regions like Libya and other places to make operations reasonable.
And you also have gas shortages in Egypt and Oman again for which there's not a quick solution.
So my perspective is I don't think that you're going to see a dramatic uptick in production from those areas.
But Dennis and Bert you got...
I think if you look at North Africa you got to look at it in 3 buckets.
And if you look at Egypt for instance where they produce nitrogen today the issue there really is gas availability and potentially politics in terms of getting plants started up and keeping them running.
When you look over at Libya again there's plenty of gas that's available that could be put into a facility.
The problem is that the situation there is so unsafe and so unstable that it's difficult to keep a plant up and running with people and staffing it for a prolonged period of time.
And as you move further west to Algeria there certainly is plenty of gas to the degree they have outages they're largely going to be driven by operational issues or issues between the people who own the foreign participating share in these joint ventures and [indiscernible].
And those things can be sometimes a bit intractable as we saw earlier last year.
So -- but I would say about the supply of North Africa is we don't have any crystal ball but with those sources of potential uncertainty and instability it's very difficult to really kind of draw a supply curve for North Africa with any degree of reliability or accuracy.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just a quick follow-up you mentioned some themes in China which many of us have been monitoring which could potentially help the floor price.
Could you just further elaborate on which aspects you view as the most material including various tax regimes and also the overall industry attempting to help stabilize export prices? Yes.
I'll give you a few and then I'm going to pass this over to Bert for his -- him to weigh in as well.
There's a couple of issues one of which is the changing regulations on what's acceptable for our imported coal in the way of fly ash and sulfur means that there's less sea borne coal that's actually eligible to enter the marketplace.
It puts on higher demand on domestic coal and that will drive up coal prices to some extent.
Similarly you see some reduction in the availability or an increase in that corresponding price of gas going into the gas-driven plants in China.
Those things help from a cost structure standpoint.
You've seen movement away from subsidized rail rates and port costs and other things.
All of those things mean that the producers or the traders that want to take possession of those goods are incurring real economic cost for all of those movements all of those things mean the price has to rise for that product to show up at a profit on the international scene.
And finally as you mentioned there's the 5% tax that's flat across the year.
My perspective on that one is that's very helpful for our business.
You don't see these big movements where inventories balloon up and then disgorge that drive some funkiness in terms of buying behaviors particularly in places with large tenders like India and Pakistan.
And I think if you see more ratable product coming out of some of those regions it leads to more stability in the pricing on a global basis.
But Bert do you have other thoughts? No I think you've touched on the key ones and they all reflect a positive perspective or a positive opportunity for the industry going forward.
Costs are going up.
Coal freight labor those are positives for our business.
The 5% tax I agree with Tony and that the rational nature of that will bring to the overall supply and the supply availability coming out of China.
The demand structure is in place domestically for Chinese consumption.
We've been tracking that as well as industrial demand which is also fairly consistent.
So it's that available tonnage that will be exported and then at what economical cost that will be exported for.
Fantastic demand going forward out of India and Pakistan that is open to receive the untreated prilled product coming out of China.
So you set up a system that that probably will be the supply base for those regions and the granular that is coming out of China today is at a quality disadvantage and is trading at a $20 to $25 discount to domestically-produced product in North America.
So I look at these things as coming together.
It's a maturing of our industry a maturing of the industry in China and we see those as positives going forward.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Question on the Woodward facility.
This was the downtime that you announced a few weeks ago.
This is the second major shutdown in the plants in this year.
And I think both times you cited boilers in the press release.
And I think there was schedule turnaround activity that took place earlier in the year on the back of the first shutdown.
Can you maybe just elaborate on what actually happened at the facility the confidence that you have in the sustainability of the capital equipment and the investments that you are making there on an ongoing basis? You bet Adam.
The big issue at -- one of the big issues at Woodward is it is 1 of 2 non-Kellogg plants that we have in our North American system.
In fact the intellectual property or process designers of that plant was Fluor.
And there's only 2 Fluor ammonia plants in the world.
So this one is a little bit of an oddity or a strange beast.
And the parts that go into it are dissimilar from all of our Kellogg plants.
So if this has happened at one of our Kellogg ammonia plants it would've been really easy to fix because we've got spare kit for all of the major operating components so we could have just moved the product or moved our OAC [ph] boiler out of one facility into the next plugged it in and are ready to go.
So we have a huge operational footprint advantage with 11 of our 13 ammonia plants being Kellogg plants and able to swap and receive similar vessels.
But because this is an oddball we've got to fix what's there.
And this particular it's the same OAC [ph] boiler in both cases.
There's the primary OAC [ph] boiler and in the first instance we had a failure of the insulation refractory.
In the second case we had a failure with internal tube bundle.
We're working hard to get it replaced.
We don't believe that there is any long-term issue in terms of the operability or the on-stream factor of that plant.
We're just working through one particular problem that's been going on this year.
And it's unfortunate because as Bert pointed out we're going to lose close to $50 million of gross margin out of that facility this year because of the outages.
But the good news is we didn't have any one hurt.
We didn't have any offsite impacts to the community or environmental releases and those are things that have much more long-term and problematic impact for our company than missing a few weeks of production.
So we're...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Appreciate that color.
And then maybe just switching gears your major western Canadian peer yesterday was talking about repatriating tonnage in Western Canada into the retail segments and my understanding was a lot of that tonnage was emanating from Medicine Hat when Viterra owned the 33% stake.
How are you looking at your marketing strategy in Western Canada and your ability to find a home for the tonnage that maybe -- may need a new home outside of the Agrium system in Western Canada? Yes I'll give you just a high-level comment and then I will ask Bert to go into details.
We -- as part of the 1/3 interest that we bought we also purchased a couple of ammonia terminals one of which is as Bert indicated in his comments was Vanscoy Saskatchewan.
We set an all-time shipping record for ammonia out of that facility this year.
And it is at the end of the day a commodity product where it's a competitive marketplace and pricing is set by outside dynamics.
And we feel very comfortable in terms of our ability to focus our tons on the best netbacks possible and we think we're in a good position to do it.
But I'll let Bert talk specifics of...
I would say from just looking at our system we're not wedded to a market and we're not market share-focused and we're not going to say that a certain percentage of our tonnage needs to be directed to one market.
We're more netback-driven.
And so if that netback that we can receive at any of the markets is greater than where that ton is currently allocated it will be allocated on a netback basis.
And we have built our team in Western Canada.
We used to market that through distribution.
And a couple of years ago we've put in place our own team that has integrated very well into our system.
And were seamlessly moving the Viterra tons as well as our historical tons out of Medicine Hat into Western Canada and other markets as well.
And so hopefully you're seeing us being good marketers and executors of our system and our strategies.
But Western Canada is a good market and we'll continue to focus on that and to build our relationships with our customers there.
But whether it goes there or Montana or North Dakota we're ambivalent as long as it's netback-driven.
And our next question comes from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Tony you said that again that you like CF's footprint as you said last quarter.
So do the substantial synergies that you say you found with Yara changed your view of CF's global opportunity and make you more interested in looking further exploring further overseas or maybe looking for more deals there? Thanks for the question Mark.
Look I'd say we evaluate and are open to opportunities kind of globally anywhere as long as they fit the following criteria: as long as they're in our core strategic fairway and have a return profile that's well in excess of our cost of capital.
But our standalone business plans sets a really high bar on what these things need to achieve in order for us to be interested in going after them if it's something other than a cash basis.
If we have to use our stock in order to acquire them then it sets a really high bar on the return profile.
We have looked at a lot of projects over the years some of them we've done some of them we didn't.
Things that we've done include the 50% acquisition of KEYTRADE the Terra acquisition the 1/3 interest in Medicine Hat along with the Canadian ammonia terminals the divestiture of phosphate and the capacity expansion projects.
And I think if you look at what we've done the market would say "Wow all of those have been pretty darn good deals." There are some things that we announced that we didn't do.
Coal gasification at Donaldsonville looking at an ammonia urea complex in Peru after we had secured a gasify agreement down there and then most recently Yara.
So the ones that we haven't done I think we've had very good and valid reasons for not doing those.
There's other ones that are currently in consideration right now things like Medicine Hat urea that we've talked about.
And the issue is we like that marketplace.
We like urea in that marketplace.
But the concern in that region is the high cost and unpredictability of labor and we must -- we can guarantee a full end [ph] cost structure including labor that I can say to you all we've got a return well in excess of our cost of capital then we won't be doing that project.
So that's why we've been sort of silent as we're working that to refine it behind the scenes.
So as long as it's in our core business there is not a geographic constraint on where we will or we won't be but it's got to be a great deal for our shareholders or we are not interested in doing it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm going to take that as a no.
And just one quick question.
As you look out at 2017 and beyond what is your best estimate of North America's net import position in ammonia and urea? So today North America imports I think about 40% of its total nitrogen requirements.
After all of the projects that are actually in-flight come online so those things would include a bunch of bottlenecks that have happened from Agrium and Koch and CF it would include the OCI project it would include the Waggaman Louisiana project and the CF projects.
After the things that are actually real steel in the ground have come online we think that number drops to about 20%.
So through -- as you're sitting looking at beyond '17 and into 18 we think that North America will continue to import about 20% of its total nitrogen requirements.
Now that's going to skew by product type.
There's going to be less UAN that needs to be brought in because the market will almost be in balance in UAN but there's still be a fair bit of ammonia and urea that need to be brought in.
But -- and if there are some of these other projects that have been talked about whether it's the CHS Girdwood project or other ones that will start eating into that 20%.
But if all of the things that are being added only account for about 20% of the requirements that means for North America to be in balance you need another set of projects like D'ville Port Neal Waggaman Weaver and then all of the debottlenecks that have taken place that's going to take a fair bit of capital over a fairly extended period of time.
So that's why we are very confident in the notion that North America will continue to be an import marketplace out through the end of the decade.
Our final question would be from the line of Joel Jackson with BMO Capital Markets.
In looking at some of the synergies you mentioned that you could have achieved as part of a larger network with Yara are there ways on your own that you can try to achieve some of those offshore export opportunities being able to maybe put together something overseas and be able to take care of some export opportunities into South America and other places? Thanks Joel.
I think one of the things that surfaced as part of our discussions was a recognition by both Yara and CF that there may be very viable commercial ways where we can work together to realize some of those synergies and we're certainly interested in exploring what those might be.
And so I'd say absolutely.
There's some of them that are predicated on a more structural basis that are tough to get to but of the ones that are purely kind of commercially available yes we absolutely would be interested in going after those.
Okay.
And finally have you looked at -- I'm sure you have looked at the west side partner's structure for the MLP as you get closer to finishing up Donaldsonville and Port Neal.
Have you walked through that structure gather some pros and cons that you would talk about in that structure that could work or not work for CF going forward? Yes Joel this is Dennis.
Thanks for the question.
Yes Joel we've spent a lot of time over the past year or so looking at MLP structures generally as you know.
I think we're the only major nitrogen producer that actually has an MLP so it's something that's we studied in detail and also know something a bit about because of what we have.
And the way we think about it is that structure in particular that you mentioned sort of fixed pay structure and fixed pay structures suck up debt capacity.
And because we talk to rating agencies on a regular basis.
And as we look at our opportunity going -- particularly as the projects come online we see ourselves having a materially larger amount of debt capacity as those projects start to come online.
And the after-tax cost of that debt is much lower than the after-tax cost of doing any kind of fixed rate structure like the one that you are suggesting.
In addition to that the size of deals that you can do with that type of structure really are around $300 million per year or less.
So there's a lot of execution risk as you think about trying to do something of a much larger scale over a prolonged period of time than there is with debt.
You'll know that what we did with our debt portfolios in the last 2 years we've issued $3 billion of debt in 2 $1.5 billion tranches and we can get those deals done in a month with little or no execution risk.
And in addition to that a lot of people have really raised this issue the particular transaction that you referenced but we note that nobody else out there has tried to replicate that structure.
And some people have suggested that there's some great read-through in terms of valuation to the C Corp but as we've tracked that particular company's stock since before it announced its MLP structure through today and compared that to another very closely a very similar company what we've seen is that the value of that stock has gone down significantly.
Its multiple has gone down.
And really it doesn't trade at a premium to either that competitor company and it trades at least at the data I saw at a lower multiple to ourselves.
So as far as the whole read-through argument is concerned what we see is that there's really no there there [ph].
So we don't have a religious sort of conviction against doing interesting transactions but what is important to us is that as we look at them on a risk-adjusted basis they provide real and tangible value to our C Corp shareholders.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions for today.
I would like to turn the call back to Dan Swenson for any closing remarks.
Thank you Grace.
That concludes our call for today.
As always I'm available for your follow-on questions.
Thank you everyone for your time and interest.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Bridgette.
I'll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question-and-answer session towards the end of the presentation.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Senior Director of Investor Relations &amp; Corporate Communications.
Sir please proceed.
Investor Relations &amp; Corporate Communications</strong> Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson and with me are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President Sales Distribution and Market Development; and Chris Bohn our Senior Vice President Supply Chain.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its fourth quarter 2014 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide 2 of our webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
Last night we posted fourth quarter and full year results for 2014.
For the fourth quarter CF Industries generated EBITDA of $501 million and net earnings per share of $4.82.
This brought our full year results to an EBITDA of $2.7 billion and net earnings per share to $27.08.
After adjusting for the sale of the phosphate business full year EBITDA was an impressive $2 billion and operating cash flow was $1.4 billion even in the year marked by volatile and high cost natural gas and basis differentials record high crop production and associated pressure on grain prices and all-time record high urea exports from China pressuring global nitrogen prices.
If anything our performance in the face of those challenging conditions conclusively demonstrated the resilience and strength of our business.
2014 was a year of significant accomplishment and progress for the company.
We established a new best-ever mark for safety performance set an all-time record high for ammonia sales closed the sale of the phosphate business for $1.4 billion issued $1.5 billion in long-dated investment grade debt increased the dividend 50% to $1.50 per share per quarter bought back almost 14% of the outstanding shares of the company and delivered a total shareholder return of 20%.
Finally we made good progress on our capacity expansion projects and are within six months of having the first production unit online.
Speaking of our capacity expansion projects I want to provide a bit more detail on them before handing the call over to Bert to discuss the market.
As we have said before our capital authorizations are intended to be accurate to within plus 10% or minus 10%.
Therefore we regard the projection of the projects as being on budget as long as they remain in that range plus 10% or minus 10% of the original authorization of $3.8 billion.
As a result of now having finalized plant designs and receiving final engineering documents we have been able to generate a much more accurate and detailed estimate of the cost to complete the projects.
Based on this projection the estimated total cost is just inside the plus 10% level at roughly $4.2 billion.
Even though our best estimate is still technically within budget in the spirit of transparency and full disclosure we felt it important to provide this update.
While we have much greater clarity today on the expected total costs for the projects based on our construction experience to date and the finalized engineering documents there does remain some areas of uncertainty.
However even though there are certain unknowns and things outside of our control most notably weather we fully expect the final total cost to land within plus or minus just a few percentage points from this latest estimate.
The increase in cost is primarily attributable to the expansion at our Port Neal Iowa Complex due to increases in materials and the corresponding labor needed to fully winterize the plants in Iowa and also an increase in the wage rates and per diems associated with attracting and retaining skilled labor in the Northern Midwest.
The Port Neal project remains on schedule with the ammonia plant expected to start up in mid-2016 and the urea plant following in the third quarter of 2016.
The Donaldsonville project which does not share any of the Port Neal specific issues remains right on track for both cost and schedule.
The urea unit is expected to be operating in the third quarter of this year roughly six months from now.
We plan to have the UAN plant online in the fourth quarter and the ammonia plant in the first quarter of 2016.
The projects are still expected to generate internal rates of return well into the teens and significantly above our cost of capital.
Now let me hand the call over to Bert to discuss the recent quarter and our outlook for the first half of 2015.
Bert? Distribution and Market Development</strong> Thanks Tony.
Global nitrogen markets had attractive pricing conditions as we came out of the third quarter and into the fourth quarter of 2014 driven by restocking activities to replenish depleted inventories and tight supply dynamics in ammonia and urea driven by third quarter outages.
Our record crop last year meant that the soil was significantly depleted of nutrients.
That combined with our projected 90 million acres of corn planting in 2015 created the backdrop for a stronger fall ammonia application season.
However harvest progress was well behind the five-year average and even behind the fall of 2013.
In those areas where the crop was taken off Ag ammonia demand was strong.
We saw a good ammonia movement in October and early November particularly in the northern regions.
The slower than usual harvest in Iowa Nebraska and Illinois created an issue when very cold weather and wet weather descended upon the Upper Midwest in mid-November.
The result was although there was significant farmer interest in ammonia actual shipments did not materialize because farmers were not able to get into the fields for application.
Our ammonia segment had an increase in revenues due to the inclusion of our sales to Mosaic and the favorable pricing conditions versus last year's fourth quarter.
We had good price realizations as we sold against our order book and took advantage of what's – sales opportunities existed.
While we did have lower domestic sales volume in the shortened application season we expect that demand was simply pushed into the first half of 2015.
The tight urea supply conditions of the third quarter continued into the fourth quarter with turnarounds and outages continuing at a high level until midway through the quarter.
Regions with gas supplies constraints including Egypt Pakistan Trinidad and Bangladesh continued to see curtailed operating rates as well.
Urea prices particularly in North America compared favorably to last year even though we saw a record volume of urea exports from China.
These record exports of nearly 15 million short tons were required due to both the urea outages and a high level of Indian demand.
We estimate that India is on track to purchase over 9 million short tons of urea for their fertilizer year versus the five-year historical average of about 8 million tons.
The healthy international urea market and the purchasing activity in North America as retailers and distributors restocked inventories led to our quarterly average urea price of $358 per short ton which was 7% higher than a year ago.
Our sales volume was 6% higher in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to 2013 as we chose to sell into this market throughout the quarter rather than build inventory.
The UAN market was active during the fourth quarter with preparations for the first half of 2015.
As the fourth quarter developed and the industry saw the ammonia application season curtailed interest in UAN orders increased as retailers and distributors anticipate it will be needed in the spring to cover overall nitrogen demand.
Our UAN segment had a decrease in sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to 2013.
In 2013 we chose to export some volume of UAN in order to balance our overall inventory system.
In 2014 we had a lower level of inventory in our system with the expectations of more attractive conditions for the first half of 2015.
We chose to build inventory and keep UAN here for domestic sales which we booked during Q4 for delivery in the first quarter and second quarter.
Our other segment had solid top line performance as we experienced an increase in AN shipments and a continued significant growth in DEF along with a notable decrease in DEF prices versus last year – increase in prices excuse me.
As we move through this winter and towards the spring of 2015 we are very pleased with the order book we have in place and the demand we expect to see this year.
We continue to project that U.S.
farmers will plant about 90 million acres of corn.
With less fall ammonia applied in 2014 we anticipate healthy demand this spring for all three major forms of nitrogen.
We have a good order book in place for ammonia and confidence in our business prospects going into the first quarter and second quarter.
We estimate that only 60% to 70% of the normal ammonia volume went to the ground in the fall.
Given the demand expected this spring we have been working to produce and position ammonia across our distribution system.
Additionally we do think some ammonia demand will migrate over to UAN and urea and we are preparing for that as well.
In the fourth quarter we anticipated that urea prices would trend down as they recently have.
So we made the decision earlier this winter to build our 2015 urea order book for delivery out into April.
We are also pleased with our UAN order book.
UAN prices have been at a premium to urea and ammonia on a nutrient ton basis.
We anticipate that UAN demand will be strong as farmers in some areas will need UAN to complement or replace ammonia so that they can get the full nitrogen application needed for maximizing their crop yields.
I would note that we have not seen any significant decline in nitrogen prices as a result of the significant drop in global oil prices.
Urea in particular continues to trade at the prices that are determined by the cost structure of Chinese manufacturers utilizing coal as their primary feedstock.
There is very little relationship between international coal prices and coal prices in – or oil prices and coal prices in China as oil is primarily a transportation fuel and Chinese coal is produced and consumed locally primarily for power generation and other uses.
We have seen stability in Chinese coal prices and therefore in Chinese urea cost structure in the latter half of 2014.
Additionally we know that the Chinese government is rolling back subsidies for urea producers in a number of areas most recently in the freight rates offered to inland producers.
These factors further support our confidence in the stability of the floor pricing structure within the nitrogen industry and therefore our prospects for strong cash generation even in a supply-driven nitrogen market.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Bert.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we generated EBITDA of $501 million and earnings per diluted share of $4.82.
Included in these results for the quarter were $67 million of pre-tax expenses for selected items listed on slide 19 which had an $0.84 impact on net earnings per diluted share.
For the full year 2014 our EBITDA was $2.7 billion including a $750 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our phosphate business.
We had operating cash flow of $1.4 billion.
Our natural gas cost for the quarter included a realized loss on derivatives of about $5 million.
This loss primarily reflects the expense of option premiums paid for the derivative instruments as NYMEX natural gas prices settled within the band of our hedged collars for most of the quarter.
We are very encouraged by trends in the natural gas market.
While the collars we have in place for the first quarter are above the price where gas settled for in January and February and well above the current price for March we have no hedges in place beyond the first quarter.
Natural gas production in the lower-48 states was on average almost 5 BCF per day higher in the fourth quarter of 2014 than in 2013.
Higher production combined with lower-than-expected natural gas consumption so far this winter has led to industry projections that the natural gas storage balance will be above the five-year average at the end of winter and significantly above by November of 2015.
As a result NYMEX futures prices have decreased and are currently below $3 per MMBtu through the latter half of this year as compared to our full year 2014 average cost of $4.25.
We are closely monitoring this market and assessing if or when we would hedge our gas exposure beyond the first quarter.
At this time we are comfortable participating in the spot gas market.
It is notable how the entire forward NYMEX strip has moved down since November of last year with annual futures prices not breaking the $4 per MMBtu level until 2022.
We believe that future gas prices in 2016 and beyond have fallen for several reasons.
Near-term the marginal cost of new natural gas production will continue to fall as the cost of rigs materials and other field services deflate with the reduction in oil-directed drilling and development activity making it less costly to bring out additional gas wells.
We believe longer-term demand side impacts are also coming into play.
As global oil linked to LNG prices have decreased investment in future U.S.
LNG export projects becomes less attractive.
Similarly new investment in olefins production from U.S.
ethane has to account for the lower margin umbrella provided by more competitive naphtha-based ethylene production.
We finished the year with total cash capital expenditures of $1.8 billion consisting of about $500 million for maintenance and sustaining items and $1.3 billion expended on the expansion projects.
This brings the project to date total cash expenditures for the expansion projects to $1.8 billion.
Our capital expenditures are projected to be in a range of $2 billion to $2.5 billion in 2015 including $1.5 billion to $2 billion for the expansion projects and approximately $500 million for all other items.
During 2014 we increased our quarterly dividend by 50% from $1 per share to $1.50 per share.
This is part of the commitment we have to increasing the dividend through time and using it as a means to return cash to shareholders.
However our share repurchase program has been and continues to be our preferred means of returning cash to shareholders.
As of January 31 2015 we had 47.9 million shares outstanding.
This is the lowest number of shares outstanding ever for CF Industries as a public company.
It is the result of our returning $5 billion of cash to shareholders by repurchasing more than 25 million shares since the Terra acquisition in 2010.
In the process we have increased the potential future cash flow available per share as represented in our nitrogen tons per thousand shares metric as shown on slide 8.
This figure has increased from 53 nitrogen nutrient tons per thousand shares prior to the Terra acquisition to 140 nitrogen nutrient tons per thousand shares today an increase of 165%.
And with the capacity expansion projects the 140 nitrogen nutrient tons per thousand shares is well on its way to being 175 nitrogen nutrient tons per thousand shares with additional upside from potential future repurchases.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dennis.
We are proud of our performance in 2014 particularly given the challenging market conditions we face.
And I want to thank all of our employees for their contributions to the success.
As we look forward to the first half of 2015 we are encouraged by the market demand for our products and our healthy order book.
We see gas costs that are substantially below last year which will have a direct impact on our profitability.
We are also excited about the new production we will be bringing online at Donaldsonville in the second half of the year.
As we look farther out we again see a forward gas cost that is substantially lower than previously expected as Dennis mentioned not reaching $4 per MMBtu for a full calendar year until all the way out to 2022.
We also see our production increasing more than 25% over current levels as first the Donaldsonville expansion project followed by Port Neal come on-stream.
We are excited about our future and the very significant cash flow generation we will be able to deliver to our shareholders.
With that we will now open up the line to answer your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Our first question is from Chris Parkinson with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Given just the increase in cost versus the original $3.8 billion number can you just give us a little more of an idea on the degree of confidence you have on both timelines as well as any key remaining construction benchmarks you have over the next 6 months to 18 months depending on the project? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Chris.
Let's start off and kind of go operating unit by operating unit.
When we talk about D'ville urea being online in about six months realistically that means we need to be mechanically complete there in about three months or four months.
So when we do our next conference call we should be either mechanically complete or within a week or so of being there.
So I think everyone will get a very good indication of exactly how we're tracking against production schedule at D'ville and we feel very good about that.
We've got a team executing that project that built and commissioned Urea 4 and UAN 2 at Donaldsonville back in the 1980s.
They've done it before and they know what they're doing and we feel very good about that.
Following that is UAN and again I think people should be able to hopefully take some confidence where we are three months from now on our next call on urea that that should translate into UAN.
The one that's a little bit further out obviously is Port Neal.
And we've got another winter to get through.
Weather and uncertainty and so forth can affect that a little bit.
But we're not trying to be anything more specific on Port Neal than somewhere in the middle of 2016 before that ammonia starts up and then urea in Q3 and we feel very good about that.
So barring something really unexpected if we get torrential rains and soupy conditions in one of the areas where it's tough to get some work done we end up with a river flooding we end up with something again that's well outside the norms of what we would expect we feel very good about the projection on schedule and we've done a tremendous amount of cost work.
And again we now have very detailed finalized plans and issued for construction engineering documents line item what they call takeoffs which gives you the labor content for all of the operating units and the number racks up to $4.2 billion or in that range.
So we feel very good about it within the scope of what's within our controllable universe.
Perfect.
And just a quick follow-up on your order book going forward.
As you mentioned UAN prices have been pretty solid while on the urea front you're seeing some divergence actually between oil (22:43) prices and then like Mid-Con and Canadian prices.
Can you just give us some additional color and I know Bert hit on some of this on your forward order book and how you're targeting to maximize profitability including any opportunities particularly for the second quarter? Thank you.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Okay.
Good morning.
And we do have a number of opportunities when we come into the quarter how we look at the forward opportunities available to the company what products we choose to produce whether we're favoring urea or UAN and sometimes even maximizing ammonia.
But you have seen a correction in urea that's taken place over the last several weeks.
Part of that is reflected in the international market.
You're seeing a lack of demand in a number of the Southern Hemisphere areas that would pull principally Brazil and a lot of markets stepping out of the purchasing activity some of that in Europe also waiting for Europe to take off.
And so North America becomes a destination for extra tonnage and that has taken place.
We had that as a possibility in our market outlook.
And so because of that we built our order book and selling all the way into April in the fourth quarter in anticipation of what we believe due to the commodity disruptions and market disruptions that were taking place in Q4 and early in Q1.
So for that reason we feel very good about where we are and our possibilities and the profit opportunities available to the company when you roll in the lower gas costs that are available starting in Q2.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Bert I want to go back to this issue of demand shift from Q4 to spring of 2015.
In a normal year how much nitrogen do farmers put down in the fall and how far below that were we? I know you gave us the number for ammonia.
And then would you think that in calendar 2015 that nitrogen shipments could actually be up in the U.S.
given this shift from spring – or from fall to spring and your forecast for 90 million acres of planting? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> So good morning.
And so looking at the demand shift we did have the weather issue.
So I think the farmers were – what we were seeing in terms of pre-purchases and planning for applications in Q4 we were planning and I think the market was planning for full applications throughout the Midwest.
Generally a farmer's applying less than he used to.
They used to be 180 pounds all applied in the fall of ammonia.
Today that's probably closer depending on if you're doing variable rates with fall and spring applications which correlates very well to the 4R program that the TFI is advocating you're seeing a lower level of ammonia in the fall so 100 pounds per acre to 120 pounds per acre.
I do think some demand has shifted.
Actually we know it has because when we go around and survey our retail customers in the high-application states like Iowa Illinois and Indiana and also Nebraska that a lot of demand that was not fulfilled due to weather will be applied in the spring.
That being said it's a shortened season and when you take in weather risks getting all of that ammonia down in the spring is probably a little bit harder.
And so that's why we shifted more of our attention and customers did also to UAN for sales into Q2.
We're pretty positive on the 90 million acres of corn.
There have been projections a little bit lower.
But in discussions again with the retail segment that we do business with as well as other participants in the value chain seeds and chemical people we believe that it's going to be a very healthy corn-planting season with good nitrogen demand to follow.
And just a follow-up on the increased capital expenditures roughly $400 million or so.
Does that mean that there'll be less free cash flow this year that you'll devote to share repurchase? How do you see that impacting the rate of return of cash to shareholders in 2015 and 2016? Yes I wouldn't link it necessarily directly to the projects but obviously our priority is getting the projects done Don as you know – this is Dennis.
My guess is that looking at it right now between now and sort of the end of second quarter it's unlikely that we'll be in the market buying many of our shares back.
As we get to midyear I suspect we'll take a look at where things are.
We'll have greater clarity on a number of items and then we could be back in the market later this year repurchasing shares.
Our view is that our shares today represent a good value even up near $300.
And our appetite for buying in those shares to increase the nitrogen nutrient tons per share metric and cash flow generation capacity per share is a good thing for us to be doing.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Could you talk a little bit about the way you're thinking about natural gas going forward? And I guess I don't just mean in a vacuum in terms of your view on gas but I am also kind of asking in terms of you got Donaldsonville just about to start up.
You talked about leveraging the new assets up.
So how do you triangulate the opportunity to maybe lock in the cost side of the ledger with the ability to maybe borrow potentially upon startup of the facilities rather than waiting later on in order to – you just said you think the stock's attractive at these levels and presumably the stock will go up as your earnings go up.
So how do you think about sort of the risk/reward associated with maybe hedging and maybe borrowing some money to buy stock back? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Vincent.
I'm going to take a first crack and then I'm going to turn it over to Chris Bohn who heads up all of our supply chain logistics and gas buying to give you his thoughts as well.
But I think people have continually asked us this question over the past few years which is you got all this new capacity coming online don't you think you should lock in your cost structure.
And had we done it any time up to this point we would be way out of the money.
We are big time believers in the resource base of gas in the United States the ingenuity of people here to find lower and lower cost ways to extract that gas out of the ground.
And as a result the long-term very low cost environment that we're operating in as reflected in the NYMEX strip which is below $4 all the way out to 2022.
And so we're delighted to be spot buyers right now and really think about hedging as a way to get rid of seasonal volatility as opposed to some long-term concern with the cost structure of gas in the U.S.
Now it doesn't mean that we wouldn't entertain something but I think we feel very comfortable with the supply response in the U.S.
When gas got up to $5 in the first quarter of last year on average you see a production increase of 5 BCF a day on a demand base of what 67? So it's a huge percentage increase in production and costs of bringing new wells online are only decreasing as time goes on.
But Chris you want to...
Yes just to build on that Vincent.
As Tony mentioned at this time we're fine being spot buyers.
When you look at 2015 last week's storage report shows that we're over 0.5 TCF greater in storage than we were last year at this time.
Production continues to be strong where we're 5 BCF to 6 BCF greater per day in production than we were last year.
And really based on this we view 2015 as a significantly oversupplied market.
And as a result as Dennis mentioned in his comments you're going to start seeing the conversation shift to the fall for storage containment issues.
And as Tony mentioned it's really illustrated in the strip right now where we're having one of the coldest Februaries we've ever had and you have March trading at sub-$2.80 and the rest of the strip not above $3 than November.
So it's not to say that we wouldn't move in to some sort of position to mitigate weather or any other demand response but right now we're pretty happy being spot purchasers.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I'm going to ask Dennis just to comment on the debt piece.
Yes Vincent I think we've talked about this maybe on the last call.
But obviously we're mindful of the fact that as the projects come on we will have significant additional debt capacity.
We're also mindful of the fact that we have a commitment to our bondholders and then to our board of directors which they support to remaining ourselves – to keeping ourselves as an investment grade credit.
That having been said though obviously as we get to the latter half of this year and we start seeing units start up in Donaldsonville with a view – a very close view to the ammonia units starting up there in the very beginning of next year we're going to be in conversations with the rating agencies over what is the exact timing and amount to bring on additional debt.
What I would say is we are very mindful of the fact that our shares don't have the value fully baked into them associated with the capacity expansion projects.
And we're very mindful of the fact that we will be having significant additional debt capacity.
It's just managing all those things within the parameters to keep ourselves on the straight and narrow with our BBB rating.
And just as a quick follow-up do you have a sense of if you wanted to go out further on the gas strip how far out there there's meaningful liquidity for you? Yes we could I mean there's liquidity probably three years out to five years out that we could go for certain tranches of that.
I think you've seen some of our competitors late last year mention that they've gone out through 2018 with a three-year portion of tranche.
It'd really just be us looking at what we believe to Tony's point that we think the overall natural gas cost structure is going to be lower.
So it's just a decision on that point.
Okay.
Thanks very much for all the answers.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe just following on about the capital discussions on the return side and I know in the prepared remarks I'm not sure whether Dennis or Tony alluded to dividends being an important component of the future returns but share repurchases being more important.
As the capacity expansions come online how do you think that dividend component of the cash return mix changes or how is that your thinking evolve there as you move out to 2016 2017 and you're fully loaded on capacity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes good morning.
I'd say as long as we think there's a meaningful discount in our shares versus what we believe to be something approximating intrinsic value we're going to have a strong bias towards aggressive share repurchases because we think that will generate superior returns for our longer-term shareholders.
And as you see that discount disappear I think you would see us go heavier and heavier up on the dividend.
Now that said we do have a desire to grow our dividend over time and we think that's an important signal to the marketplace.
And it does provide a bit of a floor for our shares to constantly trade above given what the yield desires are in the marketplace.
So I think there's a place for both of them.
I don't think it's exclusively one or the other.
But as long as we see opportunities to continue to drive really significant value for our shareholders by buying in cheap shares we're going to want to do that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe switching gears to the market; can you talk a little bit about the situation in India and that ties into the pace and magnitude of urea exports out of China last year and what is expected this year? But I mean India is going to have a new budget shortly and there's discussion about changes in the urea subsidy.
They're obviously an important consumer of Chinese urea.
And how do you risk-adjust kind of the potential changes in the Indian demand this year and the impact to global supply-demand balances? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Good morning.
This is Bert.
They have a huge impact on the global supply and demand balance importing almost 9 million tons as we mentioned in the prepared remarks above the historical average of 8 million tons.
That being said they consume over 30 million tons and a lot of that is produced what we believe at high cost levels.
And so when you have a country that is consistently experiencing brownouts and the lack of energy but directing that energy resource base to fertilizer rather than to building out the energy infrastructure I think that is where India should or possibly could go as we move forward.
And we saw that last year with the naphtha-based urea plants going offline.
So I would say for longer-term looking forward at 30 million tons maintaining that consistent demand base I would expect to see more imports from China and Iran coming to India and less domestically produced product as those older plants go offline due to whether that be again being 34-year-old steel as well as the high cost of energy.
And so that's why we're fairly positive if a lot of the pearled urea in China goes to India.
It doesn't have too many markets internationally anyway.
So that product needs to stay in China go to India or a few other low-quality markets in the world.
Not much granular that comes out of China goes to India that goes to more of the Western Hemisphere as well as into – little hits going into Europe.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But Adam I think relative to China we also would expect that over the next year or two years there to be a significant amount of urea production particularly the gas-based urea production in China that will likely be coming offline because gas just won't be allocated for that use.
And so we really think that kind of the high watermarks for Chinese urea export sort of last year maybe into this year and then we see it trailing off as we go forward.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
I'll pass it along.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
A question on urea; if we look at the U.S.
benchmark prices it was a fairly significant sequential decline moving from the third quarter into the fourth quarter and yet your realized prices held exactly flat.
So I wonder if you could talk through how you're able to accomplish that did your mix changed and what your outlook would be given your order book for the first quarter.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> In this type of market we're always analyzing the options available to the country whether that again be production options market options export options.
And so during Q3 we saw some of the positive opportunities in Q4 that were available to the company we executed against those.
These markets they do oscillate up and down.
We have different pricing structures whether that be a forward sale an index sale a spot sale.
Again we utilized all three as well as interior sales to achieve our – which we're very pleased with our UAN price realization.
Coming into Q4 or coming out of Q4 into Q1 the correction that we're currently experiencing right now didn't start until January.
And we have seen an international movement with a little bit of a decline in urea.
But we expect a lot of that demand is being pushed into – later either into Q1 or into Q2.
Times like this happen a lot of demand is pushed forward when people try to buy at the bottom and the correction is actually fairly steep because a lot of that demand comes in at the same time.
So I would expect that urea prices would trend up going into Q2 and we'll capture some of that price appreciation when it's available.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up if I may would you comment on the financial impact of the outage at Woodward Oklahoma in the quarter? We had fixed plant write-offs during the quarter and they were approximately $10 million fixed plant write-offs and I don't have quantified what the EBITDA loss was but I don't think that it would have been substantial in the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Matthew Korn with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Tony I wanted to follow up a little bit on the statements you made about the Chinese urea production.
As you cited in your presentation the Chinese have been adapting a number of policies in attempt to shore up their struggling domestic coal industry.
It would seem that with the volume of exports so high that would be breaching fairly deep into the Chinese supply curve to kind of source all the exports.
Are there any indications today that feedstock availability is affecting any of these urea producers be it straightforward coal import limits or coal quality limits or new environmental controls anything which you're seeing there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Matthew what we do track pretty carefully is the price for anthracite lump both in terms of RMB and then on an exchange rate basis what that looks like in USD and a dollar per MMBtu equivalency.
And it did sort of come down and hit a low point as we got into kind of August September of last year.
And then it kind of started rising again and where we were in in January and now is more similar to where we were at kind of June July timeframe which is a stronger cost and therefore higher price or higher cost urea.
But it doesn't move dramatically.
It's been fairly small movements kind of $0.20 per MMBtu $0.30 per MMBtu equivalency.
Given just the sheer volume of coal mining activities we haven't been made aware of any kind of difficulty securing feedstock there.
So that has not shown up.
Now there have been a few smaller kind of more privatized plants that have been – I think about 2 million tons worth that have been permanently taken out of production just because of the economics didn't work.
But we haven't seen supply of coal really being a challenge.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Let me follow up I guess on some of the CapEx questions.
You mentioned that the cost inflation you're seeing for the projects now don't really change your view on the cost side like locking in either cost or natural gas.
Does it increase any incentive to lock in new margins with more indexed or cost-plus contracts for Donaldsonville and Port Neal kind of what you've done with Mosaic or I think some of the AN product you've had you've done before? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Matthew as we think about indexed or kind of cost-plus contracts most of that tends to be for more industrial-based customers.
So Mosaic we view absolutely as an industrial user of ammonia because it's an input into their process.
The situation we have with ORECA on the supply of AN similarly as an industrial application.
It starts getting tough for us to allocate big chunks of our volume on a cost-plus basis to agricultural customers because the minute you start going that way with one everyone wants a piece of that action.
And so I think what you might see us doing would tend to be more on a market index kind of basis and allocating volumes to certain customer requirements that can be priced off of an indexed basis but cost-plus is not really the direction generally speaking that we want to take the business.
And part of the reason for that is we sit in a very very advantaged location on the global cost curve and it is a global commodity that's priced off the highest price producers which in this case is Chinese-based anthracite coal and we want to capture the spread between our cost position versus the high-cost producers.
We don't want to give that away to other people in the industry.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks Tony.
Good luck with spring.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Jeff.
Hi.
If you had to allocate the $40 million in mark-to-market losses across your segments how would you do that? Yes.
Typically what we do when we think about that if you had to allocate you'd basically be allocating on a gas usage basis.
So if you think about ammonia sort of 33 MMBtu's per ton of ammonia that would be a logical way to do it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Almost all the gas use sits in ammonia and then it's only another kind of 3.5 to 4 to get it to urea and very little on the AN and other product side; so almost all of the gas consumption goes into initial ammonia production yes.
Okay.
And then for my follow-up so this year you'll bring on Donaldsonville and maybe Orascom will bring on its facility.
Do you think that in 2016 nitrogen pricing will be affected by the capacity expansions in the U.S.
or do you think it would be unaffected? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean I think anytime you end up with lumpy chunks of supply coming on there's going to be a short-term settling-out period as the market absorbs that.
But because it is a globally traded commodity and things move pretty quickly to find the best possible netbacks I don't think it's going to be a prolonged issue.
I think it's one of those situations that traders will start moving tons back and forth if they can make $5 or $10 and cargoes that have found their way over to the U.S.
could quickly find themselves being moved someplace else if there's margin to be had by doing that.
The international global trade is pretty efficient at finding ways to make a little bit of an arbitrage here or there.
So these things have a way of balancing themselves out.
And I'd say longer-term Jeff the U.S.
today or North America today imports roughly 40% of its total nitrogen requirements.
And even with all of the projects that are currently in flight coming on-stream by the end of sort of 2016 and into 2017 for some of those other projects North America will still import about 20% of our total nitrogen.
So we will still be an import marketplace where the price is determined by bidding product away from the international market.
And so we don't see the projects that we have in place as having a negative kind of permanent overhang on the pricing environment in North America.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup Global Markets.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning P.J.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Couple of questions on China.
You talked about urea being unaffected by oil prices.
But recently Chinese coal prices have been declining in last few months.
How confident are you that the floor on the urea cost curve will hold in China? And then secondly on China I think you said that Chinese exports of urea will be at a minimum of 11 million tons.
Are you saying that Chinese exports will decline this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So P.J.
let me handle the first part of that question and then I'll turn it over to Bert to talk about the export volume.
So the data that we have on anthracite lump coal and I'm going to go back to beginning in sort of August of 2014 it was about RMB800 per ton.
And it dropped a couple of RMB in September RMB798.
Then it went up to RMB802.
Then in October it was back to RMB798 December topped all the way up to RMB819 and where we were in January with RMB829.
And if you look at the exchange rate it hasn't moved that much.
So on a dollar per MMBtu equivalency we're actually fairly high again right now relative to where we were up through the second half of all of last year.
And this is based on an average of 15 different locations across China in terms of price points for anthracite lump coal.
So I'm not exactly sure where the data that you're looking at is coming from in terms of the cost coming down for coal.
But that's not what we see and it's not what's reflected in terms of pricing for urea coming out of China.
You don't see a precipitous drop in what the trader cost structure looks like.
So I think it would support sort of our view of what the internal cost position is on Chinese production.
Bert you want to handle the volume issue? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> So in our projections and what we stated was we're expecting a minimum of 11 million tons it could be bigger than that to come out this year but you have a different marketing construct coming into 2015 than we had in 2014.
With a different tax structure and the need not to build inventory in anticipation of the export season happening as did in 2014 I think you're going to see a more ratable volume coming out per month from China.
Currently they're having to build their internal inventory for their spring demands and we're not seeing the movement coming to the ports except for Indian tenders that have been fulfilled.
And so when you look at the market and where the Chinese product can go there are some quality discounts that the market takes when they purchase Chinese product.
And then the need not to build inventory in that May June July period for their previous export period we're fairly confident that urea exports will be lower than 2014 and that's where we said a minimum of 11 million tons.
But it could be in that range of 11 million short tons to 15 million short tons.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then second question you talked about dealers replenishing inventories.
So where do we stand in terms of dealer inventory and do you have any sort of ballpark rough estimate on where do we stand in terms of farm-level inventory? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yes.
It differs from product to product.
I'll only focus on nitrogen.
You can talk to the other guys about P and K.
Ammonia sits with the producers that's why our ammonia distribution system is so important to what we do and how we do it.
We're able to safely move our product up through and into the Midwest through the NuStar and the Magellan pipeline as well as with our barge system and then backfill only a little bit through rail.
So we're currently preparing for that.
Our inventories were fairly low coming out of Q4 but they were low coming into Q4.
And so we are in a build-out stage for probably starting – it looks like we could have a little earlier application window based on what's happening in Texas and Oklahoma.
And then UAN and urea we believe that a lot of the UAN inventory was so low coming really into Q3 and through Q3 because a lot of it got put down on the ground late last year and you can see that corresponding to the high yields that were achieved in corn in 2014.
And so we believe UAN inventories had to be built up to meet spring demand and then coupled with a drop in ammonia that may not be made up in the spring you're going to need additional UAN or urea most likely.
And so you're seeing a higher level of imports.
We think that those are balancing the market quite nicely.
And so we're pretty positive for UAN.
For urea we have had also a higher level of imports but almost the same situation of UAN where inventories were low and a lot of product went over top of the corn late in the growing season last year.
So we think inventories are adequate for all three products and we should do well this spring.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Two things; first to just follow on to that comment CF has obviously done a good job managing logistics but the logistics issue is still out there and I'm just curious if you think it's still affecting the way producers are thinking about the spring and positioning product into the spring.
And then the second question when you look at the new cost estimates for your nitrogen expansions you listed changes in scope and changes in labor.
I'm trying to get a sense of how much that might be impacting some of the other projects that are out there if you have any view on how much of it was just CF-related changes in scope and how much of it is labor and other things that other people are going to feel too.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Mark good morning.
I'm going to handle the cost escalation and then I'll ask Chris Bohn to handle the logistics piece.
On the cost stuff the increases that we have seen are largely a function of building a plant in the Upper Midwest and the changes in scope are differentials versus the projected model that we got initially from Uhde ThyssenKrupp because they haven't built that many of these plants in the northern climes recently.
Most of them have been built in Middle East North Africa and other places.
So they have a model of what this plant is and then they try to put a weather package on it to put it in the northern tier.
And what we found is that the actual amount of steel went up pretty substantially and the amount and depth of the number of pilings the depths of the foundations and platforms everything was quite a bit higher than what the original estimate was coming out of the engineering firm.
And part of that is because you got to get well below the frost line.
You've got huge wind loading on these big buildings and exterior structures that are covered that beefs up the amount of structural steel that you need which again adds more concrete to the platforms.
And as a result there's this sort of escalation factor that was not originally accounted for when we got our original estimates from Uhde.
And so those are factors that are going to hit anyone building in whether it's Illinois Indiana Ohio up into Québec and into The Dakotas.
They're going to be faced with those same challenges of winterization package driving increases in material scope.
In addition to that the cost of getting skilled labor to come out of the Gulf region and move into the northern area particularly during the brutal winter you got to pay the per diems.
You got to pay shift rate differentials 60-hour work weeks and so forth.
And again those are the same costs that anyone building in the northern tier is going to face.
And so that's why you see almost all of the cost increase or in fact all of the cost increase happening in Port Neal as opposed to D'ville which is exactly where we thought it was going to be and those factors are directly applicable to anyone building a northern tier plant.
Chris you want to handle the...
Yes.
From a logistics standpoint Mark I can only speak for CF.
But we've had a very manageable winter the logistics team has done a great job of positioning our product the railroads for the most part.
We've been happy with the performance so far due to the positioning of our cars and our plants.
So I think for the most part with the exception of a little disruption with the potential or the CP strike for the day and a half and some of the rivers with this colder weather you're getting a little more ice on it than what we've had for the previous part of the winter we've been in great shape so there's not much that we're seeing as a bottleneck on the logistics side.
That's super.
Thank you both.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Mark.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Joel Jackson with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Had a couple of questions.
The first question is looking at your non-gas cash cost for all of your segments they were higher on your new segmentation.
So they were higher in Q3 Q4 and in 2014 versus the prior year period.
Can you talk about what's going on there? Were they higher than normal this last couple of quarters or were they – or is this then the right run rate? Yes.
We look at the whole year-to-date Joel.
We've got a few things going on.
Let me just sort of talk about they're sort of – almost sort of one-timeish in effect.
We had a pension settlement which rolled through cost of goods sold of around $9 million this year.
We also had some higher storage and logistics costs during the year.
And as I talked about earlier we had some fixed plant write-offs during the year of about $15 million.
And then there's just a laundry list of a bunch of other items that add up to it.
So there's nothing really systematic in any of it.
It's just that we this year rolling through our cost of goods sold we had some significant other items.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> To add to that the pension settlement we sold the phosphate business.
All of those employees all of a sudden became former employees and we had the opportunity to offer a bunch of them lump sum settlements which turned out to be a great thing for us.
It de-risked our pension plan.
But there was an impact that rolled through the P&amp;L.
And then when we had the protracted outage at Woodward there was just an awful lot of costs that got absorbed into P&amp;L that wouldn't normally be there and you'd also see more production and more sales that would help absorb some of that and spread it around.
So as Dennis said I think there's nothing systemic in terms of our cost structure.
It was just some one-time events.
But would the 2013 numbers that you disclosed so far would that be more of the right numbers used in 2015 or something in between the two years? Oh I don't know Joel.
I haven't thought about it.
I wouldn't want to give guidance on 2015.
I think we're planning on running our plants well this year and you'll take your own view on natural gas.
I meant sorry on just the non-gas cash cost.
Sorry.
Yes.
I mean I don't see anything sort of unusual happening this year.
I mean we'll have a turnaround schedule.
We'll take turnarounds and that'll attract certain costs some of which will be expense.
And then we'll also continue to have expenses associated with the capacity expansion projects.
But really there's sort of nothing in 2015 that's sort of out of the ordinary.
Okay.
And finally at our Investor Presentation you had some disclosure you expected sustaining capital to be $450 million this year and $350 million thereafter.
You've now updated that to say $500 million this year and you haven't said thereafter.
Can you talk about what's going on with sustaining capital and what you'd expect after 2015 as you ramp on the expansion? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So Joel one of the things that we've been doing with sustaining capital is we have been kind of going through and systematically bringing the legacy Terra plants up to the standard that Donaldsonville and Medicine Hat have been kept to.
So that means we don't let single-point failures in an ammonia tank take the entire site down because we have a redundant ammonia tank storage.
We have DCS control systems on all of our production units.
We don't have pneumatic or single-loop control systems.
There's a whole series of things that we have been doing to again systematically upgrade and make the plants more reliable.
And we're getting near the end of that process.
We are doing a couple of major DCS upgrades including one right now at Verdigris and one later in the year I think at Woodward.
But as we look forward that kind of big spike will have worked its way through the system and will be returning to what we view as a more normalized maintenance CapEx which is back in kind of $300 million to $400 million range.
It's going to vary one year to the next year based on the intensity of turnarounds but that's a pretty good average number.
As we demonstrated back in 2010 and 2011 if need be the plants have an ability to sort of tighten their belts and run on a lower rate than that but that does have long-term consequences.
And we'd rather keep them running at the appropriate sustaining rate to maintain high on-stream reliability and safe operations.
And that's really kind of still in that $300 million a year to $400 million a year range.
That was very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Charles Neivert with Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Morning guys.
Got two quick questions one in terms of Donaldsonville and the new ammonia plant when it starts up does that trigger the startup of The Mosaic deal? And of that production that's going to come online assuming it's running full board day one but how much of that new production is committed to Mosaic once that starts up? And then on the follow-up with the decline in oil pricing and I don't know what you have for an assumed oil price going forward does that mean or do you think that India will in turn then keep on those naphtha-based urea units because now it's a lot cheaper to produce than it was six months ago eight months ago 10 months ago? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So on The Mosaic side Charlie we already are moving our Trinidadian tons to Mosaic in Tampa.
So that contract or that piece of the contract has already begun.
The rest of the contract officially starts January 1 of 2017 but there's an opportunity for us to supply them tons ahead of that if both parties agree.
And one of the challenges of course you have when you're shipping anything intra U.S.
is you need Jones Act vessels and they're in the process of constructing their Jones Act vessels.
So the tight shoe on this one is going to be more their ability to arrange transport as opposed to our ability or willingness to sell the tons.
But that contract officially kicks off January 1 of 2017 unless both parties agree to an earlier date.
If it's an earlier date would it be at the same contractual deal as the 2017 start or would there be some adjustment there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No we would keep the same pricing mechanism in place that generates a nicer-term for us on our plant.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> On the oil price your point is a good one which is the naphtha-based production is more competitive than it was six months ago eight months ago and those plants might have a little bit more of a runway from a limp-along standpoint.
I think most of the people that we talk to in the energy space suggest by the time you get to the end of this year you're in sort of $60 a barrel range.
You get into next year you're more $65 to $75 and then it could go up from there.
And I should see some meaningful new production coming online.
And as oil continues to kind of creep up in terms of cost those naphtha-based production units become less and less economic and we're back to the world that Bert described.
So could they hold on for a period time longer? Certainly possible.
Do we think those are long-term producers and part of the overall supply curve? We don't view those as being a meaningful part of global production.
Yes.
I think it's important this is Dennis Charles that you keep in mind that at $60 oil you're still talking about $10 per MMBtu and although that maybe "more competitive" than it was at $100 per MMBtu it is still not competitive in an absolute sense when you think about people like ourselves who are paying today somewhere between $2 per MMBtu and $3 per MMBtu for energy to produce product.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Piken with Cleveland Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just wanting to circle back with respect to your expectations for the spring and kind of how the dealers are positioned if we get in very early spring like we did in 2012 I mean is there potential for the Midwest market to rally by maybe a higher amount than people are thinking right now or do you think there's been so much product already bought that that type of run is not possible? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Whether we have an early spring or a late spring still to be determined.
We have seen some early – some very positive early activity in Texas and Oklahoma as I mentioned earlier regarding UAN movement out of our Oklahoma plants in preparation for their season there.
If we were to see an earlier spring as we saw in 2012 where we saw demand consistent every month and then much earlier where March was taxed at least through the distribution system I do believe you would see a price rally.
Similar to 2012 where it went from $430 to $740 I doubt that.
I think we'd be pleased to see something in the upper $300s.
But who would probably capture that would be those who have inventory in position or able to put product in position such as CF because it's difficult when those price disruptions take place it's generally a freight issue or a product availability issue.
Okay great.
And then my second question just relates to kind of the summer fill program and I know it's a little early.
But I mean with kind of more capacity coming on and specifically the Orascom facility potentially up and running by next spring how do you sort of think about your approach to summer fill and I guess in terms of – both from a pricing standpoint and an ability from a timing perspective to get the dealers to buy in? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Regarding summer fill we work in conjunction with our customers to make sure that we are supplying their needs and expectations.
Summer fill is very important because UAN focused on UAN you're shipping so much product.
Demand is around 13 million ton 14 million tons in North America and you have to ship that every month and utilize your logistic assets because you can't just receive it all in two months or three months or four months in the spring.
And so there will be a fill program the other producers that are bringing on additional capacity they're actually going to come out with ammonia first and we don't see that UAN coming on-stream until at best late in the first quarter of 2016 and probably Q2 2016 and so that's too late to impact fill and probably too late to impact the spring season.
Our UAN and Donaldsonville will be brought up late Q3 Q4 and that will be a part of our program.
Okay terrific.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Tim Tiberio with Miller Tabak.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
I guess with regards to your comments on the Q2 hedging position around natural gas and those colors really rolling off starting in the second quarter can you kind of give us a historical reference point of how much of your Q2 sales are typically produced in Q1? You're basically asking what do we have in inventory typically at the end of Q1 for sale in Q2 and I think the answer to that is that varies by year.
So as we look at our inventory – as I look at inventories and I look at them every quarter because it's part of what we do to prepare for these calls every quarter it's going to be very different and it will vary by product depending on what's happened at the quarter before.
So there's not really a lot of insight to be gained from that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But generally speaking Tim I would say out desire is to come out of the under the second quarter with sort of the warehouses and the tanks empty if possible and so very little of what is produced in Q2 stays in Q2 – or goes into inventory it's maybe half a month or at most a month and so all of the sales in Q2 and Q1 are really the product that has been produced.
So if you're thinking about how to view the lag of how gas is going to work its way through the P&amp;L part of it back to Dennis' question is do we get an early spring which it doesn't look like looking out the window this morning and it being 0 degrees here in Chicago but do you get a big ammonia season in Q1 and get those sales right now or do they trip over into Q2 and so forth? But certainly in the first half of the year all of that gas is going to work its way through the P&amp;L.
Okay great.
And then my second question back to your point about the cost inflation from winterization.
I guess probably some of that has to do with your urgency of trying to get these projects done but with some of the major CapEx reductions that we've seen in the oil patch being announced over the last couple of months do you see that structurally changing through if at some point some of that labor may structurally have to move back into the North? And does that change your view on some of these projects that have kind of been seen as more marginal from a returns basis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Tim I think it's a good question.
Obviously a strong dollar versus the euro means that your engineering and some of your procurement costs are a little bit less and if you see a bunch of the LNG and other kind of projects canceled do you end up not having to bid up labor quite as much? I think those things are good questions.
But I think generally speaking the skilled trades are still Gulf area-centric people.
And because of new construction and turnaround activity there's generally speaking plenty of work to keep them gainfully employed in the Gulf region.
And so our view is to attract the scale of people that are required to build a nitrogen facility you're not going to see a substantial discount in labor rates versus what we're experiencing today.
Again strong dollar means you might get a little bit of benefit on some of the engineering and procurement side.
But the other thing that's important to recognize is the economics available to anyone coming after this are diminished relative to us for a couple of reasons.
One of which is we've got sort of the first mover advantage and we're going to have at least three years of production of these projects versus anyone else.
And anyone else that comes after this the S&amp;D balance is something that just doesn't favor those projects from a price realization standpoint to the same extent as our projects.
The other thing is we have an entire network and logistical asset base that we're feeding our production into and as a result we believe we can generate better netbacks than anyone else out there can.
And so if you're operating a single facility with operation without benefit of all of the terminals and rail assets and barge fleets and everything else you're really operating at a pretty significant disadvantage and again the economics on that are pretty challenged.
So our view is it doesn't keep someone from doing something stupid but we just don't think that there's a compelling economic story there for people to be building a lot of new plants.
Great.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Sandy Klugman with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you for fitting me in.
So you discussed our import requirements falling to about 20% over the next several years.
But looking further out I was wondering what do you expect our import requirements to be by 2020 and where do you see capacity coming offline as the global cost curve shifts to the left? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Sandy we believe that North America will continue to be an import marketplace out through 2020.
We just don't think that there's going to be enough new projects built that are going to change the macro S&amp;D balance.
And the other thing that we have the ability to do is to influence that to some extent because Donaldsonville in a lot of ways could be considered an export plant or – it's not an interior plant.
Our costs are about the same to move that product into Latin America as they are to move it into the Corn Belt.
And so we have an ability to just ourselves influence kind of this notion of whether the interiors and import and export are in balance.
In terms of the overall marketplace nitrogen demand continues to grow at about 2% per year to 2.5% per year.
Some of that is industrial like DEF growth and other things.
It's also intermediate chemicals and so forth.
So as you look at global demand growing at 2% a year you have to bring on kind of 4 world-scale plants to 5 world-scale plants every year just to satisfy demand.
So while we do think there will be some production coming offline in the very high-cost regions I don't know that it's going to be as dramatic as some people are suggesting.
Also as you look at global production there continues to be gas curtailments in a lot of production regions.
Egypt has seen pretty significant gas curtailments.
Even Trinidad has seen 10% to 15% gas curtailments with no immediate end in sight there.
So I think the notion that the industry's got to rationalize a whole bunch of additional capacity in the next year or two years might be overstating it a little bit.
Okay.
And then – that's helpful.
Thank you.
But as a follow-up shifting back to natural gas I know you said that you're primarily exposed to the spot market but question is does this imply that you're not even locking in gas to match orders in your forward order book which has historically been the company's practice? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So we have historically done that.
And generally speaking it's something that made sense when you go back to when the company became a public company back in 2005 and 2006.
So at that point in time North America had some of the highest gas costs.
We were the marginal producers.
When we sold forward we wanted to ensure that we were locking margin that was actually positive margin.
We live in a very different world today where we are some of the lowest cost production on the planet and we're not concerned about margin going upside down on us.
And so our view now is much more informed by what's our view of gas as opposed to needing to "lock margin".
Now today our forward order book is covered by our current hedges and our inventory which is the way that we have always operated in the past.
But we are actually evaluating that policy and dogma as to whether that's something important for us to maintain or whether we want to have a little more flexibility in our approach to that going forward.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And our last question is from Andrew Wong with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So we started to see some UAN exports from China last year.
Can you just talk about how you expect that might evolve over time and how it might impact UAN or urea pricing? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yes we did see some exports out of China to the United States to Mexico and to Australia.
But when you look at the total exports that came out of China it's still relatively small.
We have been there.
We have looked at the structure that is in place to support that export capability and it's de minimis.
There are a few tanks at the port.
They have to truck product into the port and small storage – now that can all be built out but it's really not prepared for the export capability like we have at Donaldsonville where the tank is right next to the dock.
We can load ocean-going vessels of various sizes.
And so I think what the Chinese were doing last year was getting accustomed to moving product.
I think over time as you see capacity come on in the United States that would be at best a rare occasion.
And so its impact we don't see it as being that impactful.
And their cost structure is high enough that it doesn't really impact us there either.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then maybe just switching over to capital allocation and share repurchases just could you reconcile your comment earlier regarding slower repurchases through the first half of this year with your view that shares are currently well below intrinsic value? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Andrew our issue is at the moment our focus is 100% on bringing our projects online and if we need to sort of husband capital a little bit here in the first half of the year to ensure that we do that then that's pretty easily done.
It doesn't change our view on the attractiveness of our share price.
It's simply just a short-term issue.
And as Dennis said as we get by the end of the first half D'ville urea should be done and starting off with some cash flow coming back in off of that we'll have that much better visibility into what's going on with schedule and timing on the rest of the projects and be in a really good position to be able to make that decision at that time.
But again this is in a spirit much more open transparent communication about our intentions maybe than we've ever been in the past.
Just saying hey look our priority right now is getting the cash flow coming in the door on these projects.
So if you're looking for a big repurchase don't look for it probably in the first half of this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great I appreciate the comments.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
Please proceed with any closing remarks Mr.
Swenson.
Investor Relations &amp; Corporate Communications</strong> Thank you.
That concludes our call for today.
As always I'm available for any follow-on questions.
Thank you everyone for your time and interest.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carmen and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question-and-answer session towards the end of the presentation.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today Mr.
Dan Swenson Treasurer.
Sir please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Swenson Treasurer.
And with me are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development; and Chris Bohn our Senior Vice President of Supply Chain.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its first quarter 2015 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide two of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we posted our financial results for the first quarter in which we generated $486 million of EBITDA and $4.79 in earnings per diluted share.
Our first quarter was about three things: great operations a strong order book and cash deployment.
This enabled us to deliver roughly $500 million in EBITDA even in a quarter characterized by cold wet weather which delayed applications; and abundant nitrogen imports which put pressure on prices.
The global cost curve continues to demonstrate its reliability and CF Industries continues to deliver significant cash flows.
Now let me provide a little more color on our execution this quarter.
We had a really strong operating quarter with our ammonia plants running at a system-wide capacity utilization rate of 99% even with a major turnaround at our Verdigris Oklahoma facility.
While delivering strong production numbers importantly we ran our business safely achieving an all-time record safety performance with our 12-month reportable incident rate falling to 1.1 its lowest level ever and well below the industry average of 2.8.
We had a strong order book coming in to 2015 which enable us to realize attractive average prices for our products relative to market conditions.
Our average ammonia price was 15% higher than last year due to a tighter market in our decision to forego some less-attractive sales in the middle of winter in order to have the inventory available for spot sales in spring.
Our UAN prices were relatively unchanged as again we held back from less-attractive winter and early spring sales choosing instead to wait for the application season demand to emerge.
And while our urea prices were lower on a year-over-year basis we were pleased with the decision we made in the fourth quarter to lock in forward sales at prices that were very favorable compared to how the market developed in the first quarter.
We continue to have a cost advantage from low prices of North American natural gas.
Although the weather was nearly as cold as last year's record-setting winner natural gas prices have continued a downward trend.
With production growth and an abundant level of gas reserves both spot prices in the NYMEX forward strip are well below where they were this time last year.
Accordingly we have decided to lock in 50% of our total gas needs at these low prices through the end of the year and have hedges in place for roughly 15% of our gas requirements for the period January to October of 2016.
Dennis will provide additional color on our gas hedging in a moment.
Work is progressing well on our expansion projects at Donaldsonville and Port Neal.
Our urea plant at Donaldsonville is expected to begin production during the third quarter of this year.
The structural steel and vessel installations are essentially complete along with over 70% of the piping.
The vast majority of steel for the UAN plant has been erected and the piping is well underway.
And we are confident of a fourth quarter start-up target for that plant.
Work on the projects continues to be in line with our last cost projection of $4.2 billion plus or minus a few percentage points.
Additionally we invested in share repurchases during the quarter.
We became more comfortable with the projected timing and levels of our cash outflows for the balance of the year on the expansion projects.
This allowed us to comfortably restart our share repurchases which was timely given that our share price had dropped below $300 even further below our view of intrinsic value.
We repurchased 812 000 shares during the quarter and an additional 493 000 subsequent to the end of the quarter.
Additionally we increased our revolving credit facility from $1 billion to $1.5 billion providing us further liquidity.
As indicated on slide 12 of the deck these repurchases have contributed to an increase in our nitrogen capacity per 1 000 shares which was about 53 tons prior to the Terra acquisition and stands at 143 tons today.
By the middle of 2016 including the production from the expansion projects this will increase to 180 tons with additional upside from potential future share repurchases.
Now let me hand the call over to Bert to walk through our sales results for the quarter.
Bert? Distribution and Market Development</strong> Thanks Tony.
We are pleased with our sales results for the first quarter of 2015 as it showed the benefit of how we manage our business depending on varying market conditions.
Our ammonia segment had lower sales volume when compared to the first quarter in 2014.
Since we had lower inventory available coming into the quarter we decided to maintain some of it across the seasonally weak months of January and February.
That decision benefited us in April as we saw strong demand emerge.
And we were actively shipping ammonia to customers during that time period.
Although our sales volumes decreased we had much stronger average sales prices this year due to the industry having a tighter North American inventory balance than in the first quarter of 2014.
We sold a significant amount of ammonia into this market and as a result we're able to realize an average price of $542 per short ton this year compared to $472 last year.
Our urea volume increased in 2015 compared to 2014.
We believed prices were attractive early in the quarter so we took advantage of available inventory and sold it during a time of favorable pricing conditions.
Throughout the quarter urea prices declined at the U.S.
Gulf in association with high global supply and a notable increase in Chinese exports.
In response we used our logistical assets to move products to regions we felt offered the most attractive pricing opportunities.
The strong order book we had coming into the quarter and the decisions we made about when and where to sell our products allowed us to realize an average urea price of $344 per short ton.
Our UAN segment had sales volume that was slightly lower than the prior-year period as we had fewer attractive sales opportunities where product was readily available.
Our average realized price was in line with last year as the UAN market was relatively stable and traded at strong unit level premiums to urea.
As we look to the second quarter we are enthused about our prospects.
Shipments have been brisk during the past several weeks as farmers progressed with field work.
Ammonia demand has been strong as farmers seek to make up for a shortfall in fall 2014 ammonia application.
Pricing conditions have been attractive in association with this strong demand.
The urea markets saw a reduction in global prices from January through April due to continued high production and exports from China.
With U.S.
Gulf prices trading down to an average of $280 per ton at the end of March we believe a significant number of marginal producers especially in China are not able to cover their cash costs.
This view held true as show in the April Indian urea tender where Chinese producers did not offer supply at prices they deemed too low.
Urea pricing recovered somewhat after the tender moving up to $300 – maybe even to $325 per short ton in NOLA by early May.
We believe that the cost curve continues to hold and observe that occasionally prices will dip below the theoretical floor similar to what we saw in October of 2013.
And then when those marginal producers slow down shipments it creates the condition for a price recovery.
UAN shipments should be robust this spring due to good overall nitrogen demand.
With deferred fall ammonia applications and the relatively tight ammonia market we expect that UAN will be the product of choice for farmers' nitrogen needs.
However the decline in prices in the urea market is expected to weigh on UAN prices as well.
We entered the second quarter with a favorable order book and we'll continue to take new orders as we progress through the quarter and into the fill season.
We normally don't speak to the second half of the year on our first quarter call but I will make the observation that with the start-up of our new urea and UAN plants in Donaldsonville we will have less net ammonia available for sale in Q3 and Q4.
This will allow us to make decisions with our customer and sales mix to make sure we are realizing the highest value available for our ammonia inventory.
As always we will balance our production mix based on product prices in order to maximize our earnings.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Bert.
We had a good operating quarter as evidenced by our 43.6% nitrogen product segment combined gross margin $486 million of EBITDA and $4.79 of diluted earnings per share.
A few discrete items impacted the year-over-year comparability of our EBITDA.
These include the losses we had on foreign currency derivatives this year compared to the gains we had on those items last year.
Largely offsetting these was the swing from a mark-to-market unrealized loss on gas derivatives last year to an unrealized gain this year.
Our ammonia segment cost of sales is reflective of the price of natural gas that we purchased and used in the fourth quarter to produce ammonia inventory that was sold in the first quarter as represented on slide six.
Our reported ammonia segment gross margin percentage was also negatively affected by ammonia that we purchased at market prices from our Trinidad joint venture and then resold to Mosaic at similar market-based prices.
We had a full quarter of these sales in 2015 compared to only a partial quarter in the prior-year period.
The profit from the production of this ammonia continues to reside in the equity and earnings of operating affiliates line of our income statement.
In the first quarter we had realized losses on gas hedges of $33 million.
These hedges were entered into during the third quarter of 2014 when gas prices were near $4 per MMBtu.
However as gas production increased and spot and NYMEX prices decreased we benefited as the first-of-month settlement prices dropped to around $2.50 per MMBtu at the beginning of April and May.
We believe North American gas producers have exceptional efficiencies and are driving innovations to continue increasing their production capacity while decreasing their costs.
However as Tony mentioned we also believe that the current gas price environment presents a good opportunity to take some cost risk off the table for the rest of 2015.
In accordance with this view we decided to hedge 50% of our total gas needs for April through December with 4.2 million MMBtus per month or about 20% of our needs hedged with collars between $2.30 and $3.20 per MMBtu and 6.5 million MMBtus per month or about 30% of our needs swapped at $2.86 per MMBtu.
Additionally we believe the forward curve out into 2016 also looks compelling at this time.
We have chosen to hedge about 4 million MMBtus per month for January through October of 2016 with an average strike price of $3.04 per MMBtu.
We continue to monitor and evaluate the gas market and will look at appropriate additional opportunities to hedge our gas exposure.
The decline in our gas costs has been coincident with the decline in oil-based energy costs worldwide.
Oil prices have since stabilized around $65 per barrel Brent.
While the decline in oil prices is providing some cost relief to producers buying gas on oil in contracts these producers are not the marginal production for urea.
That continues to be Chinese producers using anthracite coal which at recent mine mouth average prices of about $130 per metric ton has been relatively stable.
Our capital expenditures during the quarter totaled $445 million with $318 million spent on the expansion projects.
And as Tony highlighted as of May 1 we have repurchased about 1.3 million shares since the beginning of the year.
We returned $377 million to shareholders through these repurchases and further increased our nitrogen capacity to about 143 tons per 1 000 shares.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dennis.
We delivered strong results in the first quarter despite difficult weather and market conditions.
And we are well positioned for another strong quarter in Q2.
The global cost curve continues to provide an accurate model of how the industry operates and North America is clearly the advantaged location for nitrogen production.
We are executing well and our business is producing reliable sustainable cash flows.
We are delivering on our strategy to increase cash flow per share by increasing nitrogen capacity per share which will see a dramatic increase as we bring on our new capacity additions beginning in Q3 of this year.
Although our shares have dramatically outperformed all of our peers as shown on slide 13 given the substantial growth in nitrogen capacity per share we are about to experience there is still an awful lot of runway left for us.
Finally I would like to congratulate and thank our operating team and the plants and distribution facilities for keeping their eyes on the tasks at hand and keeping themselves and each other safe.
It is a great accomplishment to work safely while running our facilities as hard as we are.
Keep up the great work.
With that we will now open the line to answer your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask you to limit yourself to two questions.
Should you have additional questions we ask that you reenter the queue and we will answer additional questions as time allows.
And the first question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Can I just ask you as you think about what's happened with Chinese exports this year and the change in the tariff policy or the lack of a seasonality to it right so it's flat all year long.
Do you envision one that exports will decelerate as we move through the year? And two just as we saw probably weaker pricing in the first quarter as a result of an increased amount of exports if we see fewer exports year-over-year in later periods – and I'm thinking maybe during fill season – do you think we'll have less of a sort of a price decline during seasonally weak periods of time? I hope that makes sense.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Good morning Vincent.
This is Bert.
And so it's been an interesting development over the last several years as the Chinese exports have consistently ramped up peaking last year we believe.
And then the changes that are taking place within China relative to the tariff change electricity costs freight costs and then currency issues.
And so when I look at what could happen in the coming months with exports being stable with 4.4 million tons coming out in the first quarter I would expect it to be a little more stable and probably less.
Well with their lack of participation in the tender and then now trying to set a price floor it looks like there's some probably more ratable nature taking place within the Chinese production community.
And so in terms of fewer exports or in the later periods and supporting a fill price I think you're spot on.
I think from what the expectation was probably in March which was the floor of the market to what fill will be to probably what reality will be in Q3 will be at a higher level.
Okay.
And if I could just ask you I picked up from one of the trade publications that maybe some of the rainy weather near Donaldsonville had maybe pushed back the start time of the urea facility.
Is that correct or incorrect? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well good morning Vincent.
Obviously when it's real soupy in D'ville it's hard to get as much progress as we'd like.
But we are still absolutely committed to a Q3 start-up and there's nothing out there that would suggest anything different than that to us today.
It might have moved it a week or two later in the quarter than what we had originally desired.
It doesn't change the overall sort of rough timing of a Q3 start.
Okay.
Great to hear and great job on the execution.
It's really great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Don Carson from Susquehanna Financial.
Yes.
Thank you.
Bert a question on your forward order book.
You mention that your book is well priced and certainly above some of the lows that we saw in New Orleans.
I think you mentioned $280 short ton NOLA on urea.
We've obviously seen a nice rebound in pricing.
I think there's a barge yesterday at $335.
So how does your book compare to current spot prices? Is it reflective of those current spot prices? And it sounds like you position yourselves that you got a lot of inventory to take advantage of the spot uptick.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
So probably not going to give exact numbers but we're pleased with that order book because as I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we did stay out of the market and kind of set on the sidelines during the market lows.
And we've seen I think an unexpected relative to the industry and where inventory was positioned a nice price increase.
And so the price that you quoted $335 is reasonable for a spot barge in May.
And we're even seeing positive pricing out into June and into late June.
And so how does our book compare and with the current market? I think favorably.
And we do have inventory and we're selling into this market and anticipate it to continue probably through June and a little bit later especially into Indiana and some of the pivot areas through UAN.
Okay.
Just a follow-up for Tony on share repurchases.
Last quarter you were a little hesitant to repurchase shares until you felt better about the expansions which – or at least that's what you said on the call.
But as you felt better of the completion does that mean we can look forward to an acceleration of share repurchase? Or are there any other constraints such as debt levels and ratings that would cause you to hold off on the rate of share repurchase in the current quarter and the balance of the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Don.
So as you know the latest repurchase authorization that we're operating under was put in place last July and it was for $1 billion that run through 2016.
We've got about $250 million left on that authorization today.
And we're going to go ahead and continue to make as rapid a progress on that as we can given threading the needle on the issues that you talked about which is maintaining appropriate liquidity and kind of getting through the discussions with the agencies.
As Dennis mentioned last call and we continue to be focused on we'd love to go ahead take out some additional debt associated with the new cash flow that's coming on stream with the expansion projects and put that to work at share prices that are woefully low right now and vacuum up as many of those as we can.
So we haven't changed our strategy with respect to that.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning P.J.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Last quarter and even this quarter you talked about stability in Chinese anthracite coal prices.
But the data I've looked at year-to-date I think anthracite coal is down 10%.
Thermal coal is down even more.
So maybe there's a difference in data.
But what do you think is the cash cost of anthracite coal – urea cash cost of anthracite coal-based producers? Thank you.
Yeah.
P.J.
this is Dennis.
We're looking at about $130 at a mine mouth cost right now.
And if you look at the slide I believe it is on page – just grab it here for you – look at the slide on page 10 okay? What it shows there is it's about – it says $132 per ton.
It takes approximately 30 MMBtus to 35 MMBtus per ton – or MMBtus per ton of urea of anthracite coal to make it.
And our view is that at the transport cost from mine mouth to the plant is probably on average around $15 per ton.
So if you look at the mathematics there and you add all that up plus the transport to the coast it's probably going to come in around $310 per short ton NOLA would be the cost of Chinese producers at the current coal prices that we see.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
That's very helpful – go ahead.
Sorry.
No.
Go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
So my second question was you guys make a lot of money by making these in-market decisions about when to sell ammonia urea UAN and what to sell the basis difference and all that stuff.
That expertise allows you to make more money than you would otherwise make.
How do you make those decisions? Is that institutionalized the process or is that just Bert making all the calls? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's why Bert gets the big money.
No.
So Bert and his team – and I'll turn it over to him just momentarily here – but we take a very analytical approach to kind of understanding where the market sits.
So we try to understand all the factors that go into it.
What cash costs are in other parts of the world what import levels look like coming in to the U.S.
what demand centers there are outside the U.S.
to soak up some of those tons that are moving around the globe.
What producer and downstream inventory positions are and how many acres are going to be planted and what demand looks like and how we see it developing.
And so Bert and his team take all of that information and put together kind of their view of demand and where they think prices will settle and then they build the book around and take our positions based on that information.
And it just turned out to be prophetic in that approach.
It's easier for me to compliment you to have to do it yourself.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Very nice.
I think we have a very good team.
And the team is united around many of the same issues and we have a process that's been developed over the years where it's a quantitative view of the market.
And the market is an international market.
It's not a market share issue.
It's not a North America market but we're playing in a world market and the team is broad.
We have people all around the world through KEYTRADE and as well as with our domestic team with different levels of experiences.
But it starts with supply and demand.
And then you work your way through from distribution to the international markets to storage assets and distribution capabilities with different modes and freight options and arbitrages that are available.
And then you have to bring in the whole customer dynamic of psychology and thinking around and risk and reward as well as timing with what they're thinking acres.
And then the last one is probably our production options on.
We have many different products or legs of the stool that our company stands on with urea ammonia UAN ammonium nitrate DEF.
And so when you look at the production mixes that gives us a lot of optionality and we're building even more advantages into the company with these new production plants.
And so when you put that all out before you and you have those types of choices it allows us to be successful.
And we enjoy the position that we have.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you for the detailed color.
Thanks.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Samuelson from Goldman Sachs.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe first question for Dennis on the gas hedging going a bit further out on the gas hedges both in 2015 and 2016 than has been the recent experience.
And maybe at a higher-level walkthrough kind of the institutional approach to gas hedging.
And is it just a market view on the natural gas market or the risk approach on your cost base? Walk us through the considerations you make when you step further out on the hedging.
Adam I'm going to go ahead and ask Chris Bohn who's with us on the call today who handles all of our gas procurement and supply logistics to address that one.
Yeah.
Good morning Adam.
As far as our philosophy on natural gas hedging it really hasn't changed.
We believe that there's still very strong North American natural gas fundamentals and that's due to the immense resource space we have and then the declining production costs that we're seeing specifically over the last six months.
And if you recall our strategy is really underpinned by two points.
One is to mitigate risk.
And a lot of the hedging we did last year was to mitigate the weather risk when we see saw some of those drastic spikes.
And then additionally was to lock in attractive prices.
And I would say that's really where given the strong fundamentals and the flattening of the curve where we're participating today.
The positions we have in place for 2015 we feel very comfortable with where we're participating all the way down to $2.30 for 70% of our production requirements.
So that's great.
Looking out into 2016 we just saw some very attractive rates at the $3.04 and decided to move in to those.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then maybe a second question on UAN.
And I think earlier this spring you saw a pretty wide kind of price disparity on an N equivalent basis between UAN and urea.
That since narrowed somewhat.
Maybe talk about what you're seeing with customers if that price spread has really driven some switching between the products and how you think about that premium moving forward.
Yeah.
So the spread that we saw was driven by a couple of different issues and ammonia stayed fairly steady from Q4 into Q1 and now through Q2.
But it was urea that we saw a worldwide drop and again as we mentioned earlier driven by the excess of Chinese exports and the imports that arrived into North America.
UAN with the fill programs that we've put in place and then the subsequent sales I'd say blocks that we did in Q4 and into Q1 we're able to sustain the price level of UAN.
We believe in UAN.
It's got a we believe a pretty positive future not only for this year but in the future years just because it's such a great product and its versatility agronomically.
And so we believe that the retail as well as the farmers segment will continue to be attracted to that because of the advantages it offers to the farmer.
And they're willing to pay more for it.
And so yes it has narrowed for two reasons.
UAN has come off a little bit as we've gone through Q2; and urea has come up.
And so – but the premiums in market on the retail level to the farmer has stayed pretty consistent.
It's really on the NOLA and the inferior (30:26) production or the producer to the retail and wholesale segment that was pretty wide.
Regarding switching – and we talk about this each year – we haven't seen a lot.
As I mentioned we have – probably we will not hit the record ammonia level that we did last year just due to the fact or the impact of less inventory available to sell.
That being said ammonia even at a price spread to urea and UAN has been – it's been a positive six months or at least now we're in the fifth month – but a positive two quarters.
And I think we're going to see that for both urea and UAN also as we go forward.
All right.
Great.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
And our next questions come from the line of Chris Parkinson from Credit Suisse.
Thank you very much for taking my call.
You started the year with lower ammonia inventories and you mentioned the first half should be lower in terms of deliveries versus the first half of 2014.
But given the recent price action in Midwest ammonia and also strong April plantings and some key anhydrous states can you just give any color on how you're positioned to further benefit from your production versatility specifically versus urea? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Chris I'll give you just some high level and then I'll ask Bert to further opine on topics that I missed.
But if you go into the segment results even though there's great performance that we've had on our ammonia business this year our profitability per nutrient ton is better on the upgraded products than it is on ammonia.
So to the extent that we can upgrade ammonia into urea and then further upgrade it into UAN every time we upgrade ammonia we get more margin for those same molecules of nitrogen.
So that's a better decision for us.
So in some ways us continuing to run our upgraded plants as hard as we can has a double benefit.
The first one is we get more margin on the products that we're upgrading to.
And the second one is it means that you don't get sloppy in terms of the total amount of ammonia that's out there which means that's it's a tighter ammonia market.
And the prices then are that much higher on ammonia as well.
So it's kind of the gift that keeps on giving.
Bert you have any other...
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> I think relative to the issue or specific to ammonia this year we had just a great run in terms of how it began in the South and then we had some weather issues.
But the Western Corn Belt kicked off with Nebraska running very very hard.
And then as it moved east into Iowa and Illinois that's when the North started kicking off in North Dakota and Canada which is still going very well.
And so it allowed us for the distribution assets for that incremental ton to get it in market and focus.
This is where our supply team did a great job and the distribution team running 24/7 putting the product in some specific terminals with the pipes and our barges and having product available.
And that was probably one of the key success factors for this period.
Perfect.
And just my second question would be just when you look at the volatility of Eastern European supply over the last let's say 12 months or so can you just address your own in-house views on some of the oil and (33:54) contracts there the timing of it potential new agreement as it pertains to ammonia? I understand obviously only a handful of these producers use those type of contracts but just any color there would be appreciated.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So a lot of those contracts Chris are somewhere in the six to nine months long a few of them a little bit longer than that.
The other issue around kind of deepwater ammonia or NOLA ammonia that's relevant for us I guess and largely only in two ways.
And while occasionally we will do an export ammonia cargo that then has to compete on the deepwater ammonia market generally the places where it really comes into play is the price at which we buy ammonia out of Trinidad and then the turnaround and the price at which we sell it to Mosaic in Tampa.
The deepwater ammonia price doesn't really affect the in-market ammonia price too much because there's no availability really for traders to be able to move ammonia up and into Corn Belt because they don't have the storage assets.
So it doesn't affect really our ammonia business that much other than on the industrial side.
But...
Yeah Chris.
The other thing is just looking at nitrogen more broadly and thinking about urea.
And if you look at slide nine in our deck it's got our updated version of the cost curve for urea.
And what you'll notice about that versus prior cost curves that we were showing when oil prices were at $100 a barrel is that some of the smaller columns related to Eastern Europe and Western European production have moved left from where they had been before to reflect the fact or to reflect the effect to the degree there is an effect of reduced oil prices on the ability to produce.
But when you step away from those movements you'll see that A) those columns are not very thick on the graph; and B) at the end of the day the marginal producer still is the anthracite coal producer in China.
And that sort of remains unchanged.
So as we think about oil prices and the effect that they really had in our business the answer to that is not very much.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Ben Isaacson from Scotiabank.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
This is Carl Chen stepping in for Ben.
Thank you for taking my question.
So just wanted to circle back with regards to your expectation for the spring.
How much of the Q4 pent-up demand do you expect to be shifted into the spring of this year? And looking forward how should we think about the summer fill program given the limited producer inventory? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Okay.
The expectation for the first half is very positive.
We're projecting 89 million to 90 million acres of corn and we're seeing healthy applications.
So above 180 pounds per acre for corn and you're seeing possibly some switching in the southeast.
It's been very wet in that area but that corn acreage area is pretty small.
Positive rice acres coming in.
And so the expectation for us in terms of how the rest of the quarter Q2 will progress we believe that inventories will come out of the quarter low for all products.
And we think the industry will be in the same position as well as the wholesale and retail sector.
And that will set up then a positive start to the fill season.
We don't really anticipate a fill season for urea.
We've never really done that.
It's more as the market progresses and again as we've mentioned earlier it's more of an internationally driven area.
Ammonia as I mentioned in my remarks we are bringing on the production in Q3 and Q4 for the expansions in Donaldsonville.
And so the excess ammonia or the extra ammonia that we would have put out into a fill program probably will not be put out or the degree that we have in the past.
And then we will prepare for Q4.
For fill then focused on the last product would be UAN.
And traditionally we've had very successful fill programs that are driven by the need to logistically move the product into place with our retail customer base.
And we're working with them.
We'll start probably working on that in June with an expected later period start.
And we think it'll go well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Korn from Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
Dan congratulations again on the new title.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure thing.
Couple questions for you.
First if we're going to hover around this 89 million-acre level of corn planting here in the U.S.
and that effectively caps the total demand for nitrogen here.
What steps do you need to take do you think to maintain your edge in distribution that we've talked about if this really becomes a matter of market share ex your expansions? Are there any partnerships or tie-ups or others asset investments that you're going to need to do particularly if we get competitors' projects in the Midwest starting up in 2017 2018? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Matthew.
Couple of things so even after all of the capacity projects that are in flight come on stream so the most notable of those are our two projects.
North America will continue to import about 20% of our total nitrogen requirements.
So really what we're doing is for the most part kicking out the majority of imported products.
Now we will periodically do an export cargo here or there but North America will continue to be an import-driven marketplace for the foreseeable future.
We have entered into as you said a couple of longer-term more partnership kinds of relationships with companies like Mosaic for ammonia and Orica on ammonium nitrate supply.
And so those are things that we continue to evaluate and look at.
But day in and day out we don't see in the near term there being a dramatic change in the way that we go to market and the way that we do business.
We also have the largest most expensive distribution asset base in North America.
We intend to continue to leverage that to full effect.
Bert do you have any other sort of thoughts? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
I think going back to – even if acres have been capped and actually over the last five years we've seen a fairly narrow band of corn acres from 90 million to 98 million.
And even in the 98 million year not all of that was planted.
So I'd say we're probably in a 90 million to 95 million acre band.
And so we've effectively been capped.
And so where that goes then is our product mix and where we take our products how we move our products what product we're producing the growth of DEF and the whole industrial side has been positive to CF.
How we've moved our contracts with the Mosaic contract and the Orica contract moving to some long-term contracts that secure the liability of some of our ammonia as well as ammonium nitrate movement.
And as Tony mentioned just how we seamlessly move products through the market how we can store and bridge different markets it maximizes our efficiency.
And the last two things are our people.
We think we have a great team that are working with our customers to be able to move our products.
You mentioned distribution.
Some of our industry colleagues have focused on gaining distribution in different markets in Brazil or India or different places.
I'd say at this point we're not looking at that but we have great relationships out in the world and we'll continue to move our products.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Matthew one other thing which is global demand for nitrogen is growing at about 2% per year.
A lot of that at least with respect to the U.S.
is going to be on the industrial side in particular DEF.
But there are few other places where that will continue to grow as well.
And so even though nitrogen from an ag-application perspective may be relatively constant there are other places that we're looking to to be able to move that product into.
So it's nice to be participating in a market with pretty sustained overall growth characteristics on a global basis.
That's a good dynamic to be in.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks John (sic) [Tony] (42:36).
Then let me follow up with this then.
How many tons of product are you currently selling into the non-ag market? Because I noticed your mention of good sales into the emissions abatement market I was wondering if that's a short-term bump from the new MATS standards or something else and whether that should be ongoing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean think about it as kind of two-thirds one-third in rough order of magnitude.
It's about two-thirds into the ag market and about one-third into the industrial and other kinds of application.
Now embedded in industrial we would put the ammonia contract with Mosaic.
We'd put the ammonium nitrate contract with Orica.
Those are clearly non-ag-related sorts of contracts.
So you bundle all that together it's about a third of our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Thank you.
Tony as you think about the new UAN capacity and the rest of the capacity at Donaldsonville do you anticipate having a ready market for all that capacity at the beginning? I guess I'm trying to think about the competitive dynamic with the imports at the new OCI plant and how much the market has to adjust.
And related to that how do you think about the importance of that plan in the context of the overall expansion at Donaldsonville? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Mark.
So one of the things we did at D'ville is to build a pretty big acid plant 1 500 tons a day.
That gives us an opportunity to really grow into that acid plant as the market continues on a global basis to develop and use more UAN.
And we are seeing signs of global growth in demand and acceptance of that product in Latin America and other places as well.
So we expect UAN to be kind of a product that continues to get traction on the global stage.
But we also put in the capacity to be able to granulate 100% of the new urea plant and basically turn the acid plant off if we wanted to.
So we've got terrific product flexibility in terms of configuration of mix coming out of D'ville going forward.
And our belief at the beginning was we won't be running the acid plant full out from a UAN perspective and we'll be able to dial it up and down as the market requires.
But I think right now between the various UAN capacity additions coming online in the U.S.
with Weaver and then D'ville that takes up most of what the U.S.
imports in the way of UAN.
There's still a little bit of headroom there.
But we can dial that up and dial it down as needed.
We are also evaluating other uses for that acid plant whether it be industrial sales of nitric acid to other people and so forth so we can get full asset utilization out of that investment.
But I think it's a critical piece overall in terms of our network because it gives us a lot of flexibility to be able to go urea go UAN and move the product into the interior and/or export it as market conditions warrant.
That's really helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Piken from Cleveland Research.
Yeah.
Good morning.
I just wanted to touch base a little bit on Trinidad and how you see the gas availability issues playing out over the next couple of years.
And then second sort of the follow-up question is as your supply agreement with Mosaic kicks in how big of a deal is the Trinidad negotiations with the phosphate manufacturers going to be in terms of determining the cap on (46:39) global ammonia prices? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So good morning Michael.
I'll answer the second question first and I'll kick it over to Chris to talk about Trinidad gas.
But on the Mosaic side the Trinidad product that we moved to Mosaic I believe that contract runs through 2018.
And there's a potential to extend that as appropriate from both sides.
Now that contract we're basically buying product out of the partnership in Trinidad at a market-based price and then we're selling it to Mosaic at a market-based price.
As Dennis said we are getting 100% of the profit; it just doesn't show up in the ammonia segment.
It shows up below the line in the equity interest in subs.
And so that one is very much at play with respect to what's going on in the global ammonia marketplace and the pricing.
The agreement that we have with Mosaic for production coming out of the Donaldsonville plant is on a gas-plus basis to guarantee us a mid-teens kind of return on our investment at Donaldsonville.
So what pricing happens at Tampa or the Gulf or anywhere else is irrelevant with respect to the Donaldsonville ammonia agreement and that's the one that starts on January 1 of 2017.
So that's the Mosaic piece.
And then Chris do you want to handle the Trinidad gas? Yeah.
Michael on the Trinidad gas in the near term here throughout 2015 our expectation is to see somewhere averaging around 15% to maybe 20% of gas curtailment.
There'll be peaks and valleys based on that.
A lot of that is based on when turnarounds are going.
If we know there's going to be a large gas curtailment the producing players down there are managing their turnarounds to be during that period so others aren't affected as much.
But we would expect for the remaining part of the year to see that type of gas curtailment.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thanks.
And then just one last question.
If urea prices do roll over in the summer and return to levels that we saw a month ago I mean what type of ability do some of the international producers have to flex capacity between ammonia and urea? Or do you think the guys who produced urea are still going to remain producing urea? And I'm thinking the non-Chinese producers in this instance.
Thanks.
Bye.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Michael I'll give you quick thoughts and then ask Bert to chime in as well.
I mean producers generally speaking always have the option of not upgrading into urea and trying to sell ammonia.
The issue is there's a relatively fixed amount of demand on the sort of deep-sea ammonia-traded market.
And you start bringing on too much additional supply into that marketplace and you'll see a pretty quick price drop.
And so – and also again if you kind of go back and look at how we do segment reporting by products we get more margin per nutrient ton for urea even at prices in sort of low $300s than we do for in-market ammonia at $570.
So there is a pretty healthy upgrade margin for people moving ammonia into urea and then you've got a much more liquidity in terms of the urea-traded market than you do in ammonia.
So our view is the people that are making urea will likely continue to make urea even at $280 a short ton NOLA.
It's just there's still more margin available there than selling it at $450 or $425 deep-sea traded ammonia.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
The only additional comment is you do have two different markets on ammonia with east versus west and what has been happening out of the AG with ammonia shipments in the east (51:05) and different values.
But you also have to factor in – because ammonia is a little bit of a different bird with where the vessels are and how many vessels are committed to a certain area and the milk runs that they run.
But we do see some positive developments in the caprolactam production phosphate production so the demand basis for ammonia should be there for both east and west.
But I agree with Tony on the upgrades.
And their storage facilities that they have to load deep-sea vessels it's much easier and the value's there for them to continue to upgrade.
And our next question comes from the line of Brett Wong from Piper Jaffray.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wondering if you can talk a little bit about kind of the ag backdrop and kind of what you're seeing or expecting in terms supply and demand for corn and kind of ending stocks as we move through the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bert you want handle that? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
So some good developments in terms of how we're seeing planting progress and the moisture profiles that are available as well as the weather patterns that are developing look very positive for corn development as well as soybeans if – we prefer corn though because of nitrogen demand.
And so ending stocks we've been in the 13.5% to 14% stocks-to-use ratio range.
We expect with the trend-line yield of 165 to probably continue in that same vein staying around the 13% to 14% basis level.
You see some good demand for ethanol.
We think that that will continue to move forward as well as exports maybe 1 billion gallons of ethanol for the year maintaining that trend 800 million to 1 billion.
And so that works for good production levels.
And so when you look at the price for protein and the values for DDGs and the values for ethanol and the ability to export that incremental gallon it sets up a very positive demand trend for corn and we think higher planting levels.
So I wouldn't be surprised we've been in the 89 million to 90 million to see actual corn acres be on the positive side.
Thanks.
That's really good color.
Just then kind of switching to the buybacks just wondering as you kind of get through the existing authorization any discussions around a new repurchase authorization? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We want to finish up what we have authorization for before we get into the next chapter.
But again I think if you look at the sustainable nature of the cash flow generation that we're producing – and in fact even if you look at the margin structure of nitrogen or said differently the margin structure of North American producer of nitrogen it's way above where the margin structure in the long-term outlook is for phosphate.
And it's basically on par with potash.
So until we start trading at a potash kind of multiple given that the sustainable nature of our cash flow and our margin structure is equal to that of potash you can assume that we will be in the marketplace buying our shares down because we just have a different view of again the sustainable nature of the cash flows than other people do.
So even though we haven't gotten there yet that's probably where we're headed next.
That's great.
Thanks a lot Tony.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Sandy Klugman from Vertical Research Partners.
Good morning.
Thank you.
A quick question.
How do you think about the impact of precision agriculture on nitrogen demand? There were some reports from the past growing season that farmers were able to be more economical in terms of their application rates by using some of these advisory services.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Sandy I'll give you kind of my two cents and then I'll turn it over to Bert who's got more expertise in this area.
But the way we view precision ag is it's going to be more efficient use of the nutrients that are put down which doesn't necessarily equate to less overall nutrients.
It just means that you'll end up getting likely less losses to the environment and you'll get more yield for the nutrients that are put down.
And so what that may end up leading to is that you get crop production in those areas that are best able to produce those particular types of crops.
So for instance corn in the U.S.
will make a lot more sense when you're able to do consistently 180 to 200 bushels per acre than it does to try to raise corn in Brazil or sections of Brazil where you've got all kinds of logistical challenges and you don't get nearly the yield.
So in terms of our home demand center here in our production area we don't necessarily see that translating into a reduction in overall nutrient use.
It's more a pickup in efficiency.
But Bert you want to...? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> I think you're exactly right.
It's a whole component for precision ag; seed protection nutrients timing.
And we're working closely with the GROWMARKs the Country Ops (56:44) the CPSs of the world the Helenas.
They're intimately involved with that and it's the attempt to improve the financial performance of each farmer.
Okay.
Great.
And just a follow-up on an earlier question on industrial nitrogen demand.
Apologize if you already answered this but how do you see that one-third two-thirds split evolving over the next five years? And in particular how do you think about the longer-term market potential for DEF demand? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
In terms of the rough as Tony mentioned one-third two-thirds I think that's a good place to be.
If we see a different return profile to the industrial market we'll be more aggressive in the industrial market.
What we've done in the past from the last five years is we've moved from the Terra acquisition we moved more into the agricultural market because that was to our advantage with our distribution assets and where our production assets were located.
It was just a natural for us to leverage our platform.
As we've grown and as we're adding capacity and as we've developed some relationships again with Mosaic and Orica more of the industrial side was attractive.
We improved that contract that we inherited from the Terra acquisition.
DEF's got a very positive growth profile both from integer and the industry forecasts as well as our internals.
You're seeing dosing grades go from 2.5 now – after 2016 to 5.5 and project to possibly to 7.5.
And so with that with the efficiency gains that are achieved as well as the positive emission impact DEF probably has a very long runway.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions for today.
I would like to turn the call back to Dan Swenson for closing remarks.
Thank you.
That concludes our first quarter earnings call.
If you should have any additional questions please feel welcome to contact me.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CF Industries Holdings Second Quarter 2015 Earnings and OCI Combination Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question-and-answer session towards the end of the presentation.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today's conference Mr.
Dan Swenson Treasurer.
Sir please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this call.
I'm Dan Swenson and I'm joined today by Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development; and Chris Bohn Senior Vice President of Supply Chain.
On this call we will review CF's agreement with OCI as well as highlights from our second quarter 2015 earnings results.
Along the way we will be referring to several slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we will host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide two of our webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
We are really excited to provide details on what is a transformational transaction with exceptional benefits to our shareholders our employees and especially our customers.
Before we discuss the OCI combination let me take a minute to review our results for the second quarter.
Last night we reported strong results for the period with a record best safety incident rate and EBITDA of $670 million.
For the first half of 2015 our EBITDA was $1.2 billion which is particularly strong performance given the high level of global supply driven by exports from China.
We've taken on some very advantageous hedge positions for a meaningful percentage of our gas needs for the remainder of this year and calendar years 2016 and 2017.
We have a terrific order book for the second half of this year and we made good progress on our capacity expansion projects.
Given the extremely wet weather in Donaldsonville the urea start-up has been delayed by a few weeks but we expect to bring it on line by the end of September or beginning October.
We executed a number of strategic initiatives since our last call including the divestiture of our interest in KeyTrade and the Houston ammonia terminal and the acquisition of the remaining 50% of GrowHow.
I want to extend an enthusiastic welcome to the 550 GrowHow employees who officially joined the CF team last Friday.
We're excited about the contributions they will make and we're well-positioned for continued strong results across the company in the coming quarters.
Now let's talk about the transaction we just announced this morning.
As you saw in our press release we have reached an agreement with OCI which will transform CF creating the largest publicly traded nitrogen company.
We are combining CF with OCI's European North American and Global distribution businesses.
The main operating assets include the facility in Geleen Netherlands; a greenfield nitrogen facility in Wever Iowa; OCI's 80% interest in an ammonia and methanol complex in Beaumont Texas; a global distribution business in Dubai United Arab Emirates and a 45% stake in Natgasoline a greenfield methanol project located in Beaumont Texas.
These businesses will complement and expand our best-in-class asset base and distribution network.
Our customers and the farmers they serve will benefit from improved logistics reduced shipping distances and a more flexible supply of fertilizer products to better serve their needs.
We expect to generate approximately $500 million of annual after-tax run rate synergies from the optimization of operations capital and corporate structure which will benefit the combined company's shareholders.
The transaction is expected to generate free cash flow accretion to CF shareholders in the mid- to high-teens versus an already very attractive standalone base case.
The OCI businesses will be combined with CF in a new U.K.
company.
OCI's shareholders will receive approximately 27.7% of the equity in the new U.K.
parent plus approximately $700 million of consideration in either cash or stock at CF's discretion at the time of close.
Additionally the new U.K.
company will purchase a 45% stake in OCI's Natgasoline greenfield methanol project for approximately $500 million and we will have a call option on the remaining equity.
The new U.K.
company will be led by the existing CF management team and maintain its operational headquarters in Deerfield Illinois.
As part of the transaction the new company will assume approximately $2 billion of debt associated with the OCI businesses.
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs have provided a fully committed bridge facility to fund the cash needs upon close and we are committed to maintain investment-grade credit ratings after the completion of the combination.
On a combined basis we are creating a company with the premier global operating footprint in the industry increasing our scale scope and ability to serve our customers.
In North America we will leverage our existing distribution network reducing transportation costs and time delays getting product into the hands of our customers the benefits of which will serve U.S.
farmers.
We will be adding one of Europe's largest nitrogen facilities in Geleen Netherlands to complement the two GrowHow facilities we recently acquired.
We expect significant operational synergies through the combination of these businesses.
We're also excited to be adding CAN and melamine into our portfolio as these products are in high demand.
Through the existing Beaumont facility and the greenfield Natgasoline project once it becomes operational we will become the largest methanol producer in North America.
I want to point you for a moment to slide seven.
One of the most exciting aspects of this announcement is that both companies bring significant capacity expansion projects to the combination.
The new company will have an unparalleled growth pipeline that will increase total production capacity by approximately 65% over the next 24 months.
As you see on slide eight our expansion into methanol is a natural one given our previous experience in that business.
CF's core capabilities in chemical production storage and shipping all apply equally well to methanol as they do to nitrogen.
In fact we produce methanol at Woodward and previously owned the Beaumont facility.
Methanol and ammonia both rely on natural gas as the key raw material feedstock for their production in much of the world.
Anthracite-based coal production in China is the high cost producer that sets price floor for both products giving North American gas-based producers a sustainable cost advantage.
With the additional methanol production CF will join a group of over 15 producers of ammonia across the globe that also produce significant volumes of methanol.
I want to call your attention to slide 10 for a moment.
CF has a track record of dramatically outperforming our peers and the broader market in creating value for shareholders.
Since our IPO 10 years ago we have a total shareholder return approaching 1 900% one of the top 10 performing companies in the entire S&amp;P 500 over that period of time.
The combination we are announcing this morning sets the stage for the next 10 years.
Turning to slide 11 this is a view of our business that we have shared in the past.
The biggest difference is in the sheer scale and cash generating capability of the company we are creating.
We expect that on a cumulative basis from closing the transaction through the end of 2019 we will generate approximately between $8 billion and $9 billion of unallocated cash available to continue driving shareholder returns.
Our commitment to the capital allocation principles which have guided us well over the past years remains unchanged.
The stock structure of this deal allows both sets of shareholders to benefit from the significant value creation in this transaction.
As I mentioned earlier we estimate approximately $500 million of annual after-tax run rate synergies from the optimization of operations capital and corporate structure.
We view this as a straightforward integration of well-matched assets in both North America and Europe.
The CF management team has approved – has proven its capabilities in executing integration in the past with the Terra deal.
The new CF will have an enterprise value of over $30 billion once all the new capacity comes on line and the synergies have been fully capitalized.
With this announcement we are creating the world's premier fertilizer company.
To wrap up I'm excited by the tremendous benefits that this transaction will deliver to our shareholders employees and most importantly our customers and the American farmer.
Before we jump into Q&amp;A I want to recognize a few of the very weary-looking people around the table with me today many of which have been going without sleep for days but without whom this transaction would not have occurred.
First I want to thank Nassef Sawiris and his entire team at OCI.
They are terrific to work with and I look forward to welcoming Nassef as our largest shareholder in the future.
I want to thank Brian Duwe and Rich Witzel and the entire team at Skadden; Rich Robinson and his group at Morgan Stanley; John Vaske and the entire team at Goldman Sachs; and especially my team: Doug Dennis Adam Rich Gene Dan Terry and a host of others.
But what really keeps us going is the folks that run the business day in and day out Bert Chris Phil and Wendy.
Thank you for all of your efforts.
We also look forward to welcoming to our Board in the future Alan Heuberger who is currently with the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Investments; and Greg Heckman formerly the CEO of Gavilon.
With that I will now open the call to questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Chris Parkinson of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Perfect.
Thank you.
So just very quickly OCI clearly has a vast array of distribution assets globally.
Can you comment a little more on how these assets will augment your existing production and growth initiatives specifically from D-ville? And then any comments there particularly on the FITCO JV would be greatly appreciated.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Chris thanks for the question.
So as we talked about before D-ville is ideally situated to be able to export at those periods of time when there's attractive margin opportunities by exporting product.
The fact that OCI has a really well-established distribution system and capability particularly in regions as you mentioned like FITCO in Brazil that are in nitrogen-deficit areas that need to import products matches up extremely well with our ability to export at those times.
So we view this as a hand-in-glove kind of synergistic opportunity.
Perfect.
And just it's kind of a corollary of that question but you've been fairly successful managing the UAN balance in the U.S.
but can you see – can you just comment a little bit more on how you see this evolving once Wever's online? And then also can you parallel the theme about how you view the CAN market in Europe as well please? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so Chris I'll start off and then I'll ask Bert to comment as well.
But look even after all of the capacity that being contemplated in North America comes online the U.S.
is still going to be importing about 25% of our total nitrogen requirements and still importing well over a million tons of UAN.
So the market needs all of the product and in fact UAN is the highest growth product within North America in terms of usage.
It's got a lot of benefits to farmers and there's not any kind of problem associated with managing UAN.
It's a product that's desperately needed and we're there to serve farmers.
Did you want to? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> No I agree I think what this allows us to do is to have additional source points to fit into our existing system to logistically serve our customers in a more efficient way than we do today.
So we're excited about the additional capacity that will come on and also to help our retail customers and wholesale customers.
As Tony mentioned we will still get import market but by putting this together with our system you're allowing that end of the value chain to not have to import taking on possibly a $10 million position that has to come in a ship and have a 60-day voyage from purchase to delivery.
With this additional capacity coming online integrated into our system those customers can then buy smaller lots be more efficient with their capital and then they can serve the farmer.
We do not sell to the farmer; we sell to the retail and the wholesale unit systems.
So we believe this will be advantageous.
Regarding CAN in Europe it's a great product.
CAN and AN are used in a different way than we do in the United States for agriculture different type of agricultural system.
But CAN has been a growth product in a number of different areas as well as some other treatment areas.
So I think it will be a good addition to our platform.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you and congratulations everyone.
Quick question on the synergies can you sort of I know it says that they're going to – you'll get the full run rate by 2018 but any sense of how they should phase in? And can you kind of bucket them a little bit for us? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
There are significant operational synergies in here just like we saw with Terra.
We're going to have as Bert mentioned an ability to plug Wever directly into our distribution network and reduce total product miles that are shipped reducing logistics costs getting our products into the hands of our customers in a more efficient way and a more timely way.
Additionally we see substantial synergy opportunities by managing and integrating Geleen with the U.K.
business at GrowHow.
On top of that our SG&amp;A load on a per-ton basis will get more scale and therefore lower cost per ton.
And we believe that there's going to be substantial capital cost savings as well.
If you look at the facilities being built in Wever it's a Kellogg ammonia plant sort of a big brother to the existing Kellogg systems that we have in place but operating with a lot of similar-sized equipment.
There's a Stamicarbon urea plant that's being built that is very similar to the new plants that we're building at Port Neal as well as at D-ville and Udaask (17:43) UAN complex very similar to the one that's going in at Donaldsonville.
So we have an opportunity to pool our spare parts as well as our engineering capability and get more for less.
Again I think that's good for the marketplace and the farmers.
And then finally there are some structural benefits to this deal as well.
We expect to get a big chunk of those right away and then the rest will phase in sort of over a year or two timeframe before we get everything running on all cylinders.
But we expect to ramp in those savings pretty quickly.
Okay.
And then just on methanol.
Could you I know you mentioned sort of is the same cost curve dynamics as nitrogen does with the anthracite coal in China.
But could you give a view on the dynamics in the U.S.
market? How different are they from nitrogen in terms of being in a net importer or exporter? And sort of what's the outlook for S&amp;D there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so it's looking methanol in North America right now North America is similar to nitrogen in a deficit situation.
We are a net importer.
Methanol application demand is growing by about 7.5% per year globally.
Now a lot of that growth is in China but North America will continue to be in a deficit situation for the next at minimum several years and maybe beyond that.
And so the dynamics at play are ones that we love in nitrogen and it's basically a very natural add-on to what we already do.
Okay.
Thanks and congratulations again.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Don Carson of Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
I'd like to clarify on the synergies Tony.
How much of that $500 million is operational versus how much would be from the – taking the tax rate down to 20%? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Don.
There is quite a bit on the operational side.
Obviously if you look at what our profitability is and the fact that we're a 34% taxpayer currently and what it will be at 20% there's an awful lot of value there as well.
Okay.
And then just on the near-term business Bert you seemed a little more cautious on the near-term outlook than I've heard you in previous presentations or at least that was the implication from the slide.
Can you just talk about how you see second half and first part of 2016 unfolding in U.S.
nitrogen markets? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
If I expressed caution I would say probably just a relist.
We're in a market that is a global market and we're competing across the globe as a producer and as well as a distributor of these products.
And so we pay attention to a lot of the macro issues as well as regional issues.
Macro issues being currencies commodities and we've seen some fluctuations in the commodity – the soft commodity markets the last few months; a rising corn market then a falling corn market which drives demand in North America and South America.
But also some of the economic turbulences whether it be Greece or China and how that can affect our markets.
So I think where we've been is we've been prudent.
We've built a very solid order book going through or into Q4 for UAN.
And we're preparing for fall applications of ammonia and taking orders for that period also.
So I – if I sounded – and I hope I didn't sound negative because I think we are very positive.
We are looking at almost 90 million acres of corn to be planted for next year; those applications will start in the fall.
We are seeing some difficulties in Brazil today and I think that's a currency issue and that's based on last year with some debt dollar debt coming due but it's the real or their local currency has put the farmers as well as those who purchased fertilizer earlier in dollars at a disadvantage.
So we have to see how that develops and how demand develops going forward.
But our order book is solid.
And I think CF is well positioned for this year and probably into next year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ben Isaacson of Scotia Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you very much and congrats again.
Can you just talk about how the market share for nitrogen consumption in North America will look say in 2017 2018 once Wever's on and your expansions are finished? And does that potentially play into some regulatory approval risk? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Ben.
Thanks.
You know look we don't even look at market share.
For us it's not a relevant measure because we run all of our plants 365 24/7 as hard as we possibly can and the U.S.
and North America is still in a major nitrogen deficit situation.
Based on everything that's under construction today North America is going to continue to be an import marketplace bringing in about 25% of our total nitrogen requirements.
So market share is sort of a meaningless number.
We make every ton that we possibly can anyway.
And because it is a global market and because North America has to bid into the system 25% of our total needs from offshore pricing is set in the market based on what the requirement is to bid those tons in and get them up into the Corn Belt.
And everything trades on a global basis.
So look we don't view there being a significant issue here from an anti-trust perspective.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Sandy Klugman of Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So quick question the production assets in North Africa they're not part of the deal; I was wondering if you could discuss kind of what drove this decision? Was it just political considerations? And then if we're trying to assess the economics of the transaction what type of EBITDA contribution from those assets should be backed out? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So good morning Sandy.
Thanks for the question.
You know this transaction is really about doing what we do best and the assets that fit well with our system and our network.
And so that's really what drove the configuration.
This package of assets really helps us drive a bunch of the synergies that we were looking to try to capture.
And one of the benefits of this deal because it is a stock-based consideration is that shareholders from both companies participate in the synergies ratably on a go-forward basis.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then just a quick follow-up question.
DEF I know this has been a focus that could generate let's say better domestic demand for nitrogen.
How does this transaction help you potentially gain an even better footprint in that market going forward in North America and maybe in Europe as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So as you mentioned DEF is a growing product line primarily driven by emissions abatement.
It is a product that we have continued to invest behind additional production capacity.
And it's one of the product lines that's going to be available at the Wever facility.
And that just again fits into our distribution network very well.
It allows us to serve national accounts like Love's and Travel America and Pilot and others in terms of being able to meet needs across their entire network from another source point.
So that's another strong element of this transaction.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
What will be the employee count of the new company? And what's the trailing EBITDA of OCI that you're buying? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Jeff you've absolutely got me and everyone else around the table stumped with the employee count question.
It's not something we've focused on but we can certainly figure that out and get it back to you.
Again we're not really looking at a trailing EBITDA.
It's sort of irrelevant given the amount of capacity that we have coming online.
We're going to be growing total capacity versus our base today by 65% in the next 24 months.
So the right way to think about this is we have two world-scale plants under construction that are going to be online in the next 12 months.
Wever is a world-scale plant that's going to be online in the next 12 months and Natgasoline in 2017.
So as we look at sort of what both sides are contributing to this we've got four world-scale plants that are in construction and it's not a trailing basis that this deal is predicated on it's what the future holds for us going forward.
What are the costs of the $500 million in synergies? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Cost to achieve it? Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So look there is obviously transaction cost associated with the deal.
There's going to be some IT and integration costs going forward.
A lot of those are kind of year one impact and then the run rate synergies are going to kick in for that.
But transaction costs would be typical for a deal of this size.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah hi good morning Tony.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning P.J.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So any comment on China.
With recent changes in coal prices there it seems like your new band for marginal cost of production is $260 per metric ton to $300 per metric ton and that bottom seems a bit lower than before.
So can you talk about how you see the cost curve and what kind of urea price did you use in valuing OCI? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah good morning P.J.
this is Bert.
And when you look at what's going on in China and we've talked about this in past quarters how different regulation different governmental edicts different sector controls that are trying to be put in place on the nitrogen group coal prices have been changing.
We believe they're at a low and over time will probably be moderating up.
We have through various industry publications that number of $260 to $300 per metric ton has been put out there as probably the basis for the marginal producer.
However what we're seeing today is not a lot of activity below $280 per metric ton.
And at the recent Indian tender you saw a lot of resistance from the Chinese industry and not a lot of support.
Now that being said probably 800 000 tons will be heading to India on this recent tender with the rest from Iran and maybe a few other locations like the Baltics or the Black Sea.
But that being said I think the Chinese producer is struggling today; and with the projection of the new VAT tax that's set to come online in September and then what we've talked about in the past on other costs increasing just operational costs such as freight and production that you're going to see that marginal cost increasing slowly.
But that does provide a very nice core for probably the industry around the world and for CF when we're buying gas at $2.70.
And so for a urea price for the deal I'll hand that back to Tony.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
P.J.
on that front we take a look at kind of overall supply and demand and what's coming online in terms of new capacity.
But given there's a number of producers in China that are hemorrhaging money and in fact the Nitrogen Association tried back in May June to put a floor underneath the pricing.
That worked for a while and then it kind of has traded back down again.
Our view is for the foreseeable future the industry is going to continue to trade in a supply-driven mode where there's excess capacity.
And it's really the Chinese marginal production that's going to dictate the floor.
And so our view is sort of $300 per metric ton plus or minus is not out of whack in terms of how to think about the floor price from a traded ton perspective.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you for that.
And with this transaction you add methanol to your portfolio and yes they both are based on natural gas.
(31:37) different because with methanol you get into gasoline.
You get into olefins via the MTO process.
So what are your thoughts on that? And do you want to be in methanol long term? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks P.J.
We're excited about methanol because it allows us to leverage our core capabilities in terms of our process and plant expertise operation safety.
Being able to produce handle store and ship chemicals.
We do that day in and day out.
And the operation of a methanol plant is very similar to an ammonia plant.
And so again our process engineering guys will be a great help to us in that regard.
It does provide a different end-use market which tends to be a bit more ratable and it diversifies a bit our sector exposure.
So there's some benefits there.
And I think that is noticed and picked up by some of the rating agencies as well.
So look we're excited about it and we think it's a great opportunity.
And we'll evaluate it as we go and make the decisions based on what kind of return of capital and expectations we have out of that business versus redeploying capital into other things or growth in that business.
So it's really going to depend upon as we get into it how the business performs and is at the right place for us to have investment of our shareholders' money.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Adam.
So I guess for me the question in the press release and on the slides you allude to a mid-teens free cash flow accretion relative to the CF standalone base case and I want to just be clear on that base case if that assumed further share repurchases beyond the current authorization in 2016 and 2017 that had previously been part of the discussion given a significant unallocated capital or cash flow in the next couple of years.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks Adam.
So look the way we look at this is we've got the industry forecast on price strips and so forth we run them through the model and look at how much cash flow is available to us as a standalone entity and then we look at what it looks like under the new configuration using that same price strip with the different platform.
And of course we assume an ongoing return-of-capital program that's consistent with our capital allocation priorities as we've done in the past.
And so our view is that's an important element of continuing to drive shareholder value and we've modeled the same assumption into both cases.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just quickly the call option to purchase the remaining 55% of the OCI Natgasoline project any incremental color on the terms of the call? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so it's done at the same valuation as the original 45% purchases with equity appreciation for the developer/owner OCI of about 10% per year going forward.
So it gives them a fair return to continue to develop and bring that project online.
It allows us to participate in it once it's online without an additional capital load hitting our free cash flow between now and then.
And it also allows us to really get to know the methanol market and evaluate what the return profile looks like to be able to make that decision appropriately in 2017.
All right great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Byrne from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Yes thank you.
With respect to the incremental tons that you expect to come out of Donaldsonville how would you split those between the domestic versus the export market? And has that changed post the GrowHow and OCI deals? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So – Thanks Steve.
You know look we have been for the last couple of years exporting somewhere in the neighborhood of 500 000 tons a year to 700 000 tons a year.
Our expectation was that would likely grow to about 1.5 million tons a year sort of even without this combination.
I think what it does is it gives us access to some additional distribution points around the globe.
It allows us to leverage some of the locations where OCI has some great relationships.
We can think differently about product into the U.K.
and/or into Europe leveraging the distribution systems either through GrowHow and/or Geleen.
So on the margin I'd say we might be – have opportunities to create incremental value for shareholders by exporting more.
But time's going to tell and Bert's going to do the analysis on what the net backs are for us by keeping that product here and sending it up the river versus moving it offshore.
Bert do you have...
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the main concept is we're ambivalent whether it stays in the domestic market or it's exported.
It's a net back analysis or a platform analysis on what is best for the system.
And there are times when we go through a dearth of orders in North America it makes sense for us to move product offshore in a seamless way which you've seen us do into France the Netherlands and the U.K.
for UAN as well as for ammonium nitrate we've done it in Central and South America; same with urea and ammonia we've moved that all over the world.
And so we're constantly looking at our platform our products our production mix to put that into the right profitability position for the company.
But I do see us exporting more as we build – as we have more capacity and more opportunities and more distribution opportunities we think that will only grow.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Your line is open.
After your talks with Yara ended you talked about how valuable Brazilian distribution would be.
So can you give us a sense of how OCI distribution in Brazil compares with what you might have gotten with Yara? And should we still assume that you're interested in expanding Brazilian distribution beyond what you're getting with OCI? And this is a second question.
How much does your capital spend change? I don't have a great sense of where these OCI projects are in their spend cycles? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Mark.
So very quickly in terms of Brazil OCI has a terrific joint venture partnership with FITCO in Brazil.
It's a very valuable relationship.
They take no currency risk.
They get cash delivery before product hits.
They don't have to demurrage costs or anything.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It really is a terrific relationship and we very much look forward to continuing to work with and trying to expand that relationship over time.
We think that working with partners that know how to manage the local market where we're not taking currency risk or inventory risk is the best way to go.
We'd prefer to partner with people as opposed to having to own the value chain end to end and let those people manage risk in the way that they're better able to do it than we can.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> That's spot on.
What you're seeing with the FITCO or with many other opportunities like that is our desire to do what we do well which is produce and distribute our products to a point but not being exposed to currency demurrage and other risks that are associated with some of these offshore markets.
We know the FITCO people well and the Fertipar people well.
But Brazil is a tough market.
And I think you're seeing that in some of the players today some of the bankruptcies and risks that are coming out now today with the currency problems.
So I think our direction is a little bit different than PCS's and Mosaic where they desire the distribution to the end customer.
That might work well for their business but I think where we are we're very satisfied just staying what we do best.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And then Mark your question about additional capital requirements.
So this is the way I think about it.
By the time we close this transaction Wever will be up and operating and D-ville will basically be up and operating.
The only CapEx left in terms of the capacity expansion projects for us is going to be the remaining tail on getting Port Neal operational.
As I mentioned OCI who does a terrific job of developing and constructing world-class assets is doing the Natgas project and so they're doing the CapEx spend on that to get it up and operational.
So there's no capital load on us relative to getting that project up and running.
And think about it this way which is on an ongoing CapEx maintenance perspective we're increasing our total production capacity when we're fully up and operational and OCI is fully up and operational by about 25%.
And so our sustaining capital is going to go up by about 25% which means if we were spending on average about call it $400 million it's going to be in the range of $500 million-ish in the future.
So that's probably the right way to think about it.
Super helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Piken of Cleveland Research.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for providing color on your forward natural gas hedges.
Could you give us any sense for whether OCI has done any sort of forward hedging on natural gas and how you sort of think about potentially managing some of the risk in Europe and what are your thoughts on locking in some of your cost basis in that side of the business? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Michael.
So right now there is not a significant hedge position in place at least from an economic benefit or exposure perspective on the businesses that we're buying.
We are absolutely looking at how we want to manage gas purchase across our European system now with the combination of both GrowHow and the Geleen asset going forward.
We think there are going to be some opportunities there to bring some of the same approach and discipline that we have in the U.S.
with our existing asset base to bear.
But the great thing about the assets in Europe is the gas cost is declining particularly when a lot of it is the oil-linked gas is some of the highest-priced stuff in Europe right now and it continues to drop with Brent price dropping.
So these assets are getting more and more attractive as opposed to the other way around.
It's really an exciting time to be adding them to our portfolio.
Great.
And then as a follow-up with respect to how you plan to run the European business kind of going forward would you expect that the decisions will be made out of Deerfield or are you going to have kind of a separate European sales force and I don't know team leaders and will there be kind of an equivalent of Bert in Europe or will things be sort of run out of Deerfield going forward? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Michael.
So we're absolutely going to have someone moving in to the U.K.
to be running the U.K.
operations.
Actually that's part of Bert's team.
And because it is a global market and prices are set globally we're going to be very coordinated in terms of what happens over there with what we do on this side.
So think about it as being a coordination effort but local decision-making based on the dynamics in play in the local market.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Charles Neivert of Cowen and Co.
your line is open.
Morning guys.
One quick question with all of the capacity now that you're going to be owning in Iowa when it's all said and done do you think that the Midwest premium that now exists on products like urea and ammonia is going to continue at the current levels or do you think it shrinks down because you're no longer going to be transporting as much? And I mean that's always been an advantage for you guys your transport costs were far lower and therefore you sort of could take advantage of that premium more than most.
Do you think that premium comes down a bit? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank Charlie.
You know again as I mentioned before North America's going to continue to be about 25% running a deficit so – and that product is – tends to be used extensively in the growing regions in the Mid-Continent sort of Corn Belt region.
So there will still be over a million tons of UAN that's got to find its way up the Mississippi and into the application region.
There is still all that ammonia and urea that's coming into the country.
And the way that pricing is set as you well know it's the price in the Gulf plus the transport cost to get in to market.
And that – it doesn't change as a result of this transaction; it's more of the same.
Okay.
Also you didn't mention this quarter – this is just sort of going back to the quarter how much of the ammonia that you did this particular quarter was – went to Mosaic through the Caribbean operations? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm going to ask Bert to handle that.
Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yes.
The Mosaic agreement today is principally out of Trinidad and so we're bringing that product from PLNL our joint venture based in Trinidad on vessels up to the Tampa terminal and it's about 50 000 tons 60 000 tons per quarter.
And so not – when you look at the totality of what we did in the quarter coupled with what we did in the six months we were – had almost a record actually our second best year or six month period in ammonia.
Why? Well a lot of that was driven with the favorable weather in the Corn Belt and the ability to continue to move ammonia into different parts of the Corn Belt as demand materialized in those positions.
So it was a very very good ammonia season for us to date.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The other thing I'd say in that regard Charlie is Bert's being a little modest here but he's really led a significant amount of capital investment in our distribution facility so that we can bring more product in more quickly we can refresh and reload the tanks and then we can also do outbound much more quickly.
And as a result of a bunch of those investments in our asset and distribution network we're able to serve the needs of the customers that much more efficiently which is why we continue to deliver terrific ammonia volumes year-in and year-out.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Wong from RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So actually want to focus on the tax part of synergies I mean with the regulatory focus on companies trying to lower their tax rate by moving headquarters can you just talk about any potential regulatory challenges that you might expect and how you plan to address those potential issues? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Andrew thanks for the question.
Look I would view this as a combination with great industrial logic.
This is sort of normal course cross-border M&amp;A.
And the issue at the end of the day is OCI is a Dutch company.
And in order to be willing to do this combination we needed to have a European headquarters.
They weren't interested and it didn't make sense from a value destruction standpoint to keep the headquarters here.
So that was not a deal that was on the table.
They weren't interested in it.
And the only way to really do it was to move the headquarters.
So this is not a tax-driven deal.
Sure it's a nice little bit of juice but this is a deal with great industrial logic great strategic benefits.
And it's sort of ordinary course cross-border M&amp;A.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just following on the export questions earlier could you just maybe compare the net-backs that you get and the margins for exported product versus some of the U.S.
product that you sell? Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Well it depends product by product.
And we have exported in the past year all four of our major nitrogen products being ammonium nitrate UAN urea and ammonia.
And you have to remember for each of those products there are different demand periods.
So for example ammonia is a narrow window in November and then in April and May.
For UAN it's mostly an April/May consumption period urea is more consistent throughout the year.
And so as we look at different markets or different points in the United States that can be a freight view from our different production locations that are on different railroads.
And so when you're looking at an export opportunity that is at Donaldsonville that's the only facility in North America that can export.
And so it's compared against that next best option for freight and delivery cost net cost to the retail or wholesale customer.
And so compared against that and the timing and the shipments and the needs of the system exports on paper can be a lower net-back but an optionality can be a better decision for the company.
So that's how we look at it.
We look at it holistically at the time and trying to plan our production runs and product runs to best benefit the system and our customers throughout the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Korn from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning.
Congratulations again everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Matthew.
Inc.</span></strong> So looking at this transaction versus others that you looked at in the past that ended up not going through it looks like the Wever plant the facility is a major difference and its presence here in the given the competitive landscape of nitrogen North America.
When you're looking out over other projects that have been proposed that are in near term or could be constructed any other opportunities anything else that looks interesting to you if you think that consolidation in the North American market is something that's attractive? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we're at the moment worried about just kind of getting this one both integrated and firing on all cylinders so we've had a lot of people kind of burning the midnight oil in order to get this one to this stage and we've got to get it closed and get it operating before we think about anything else.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Fair enough.
We're all paid to look ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're excited about 55% new capacity coming online in the next 24 months.
That's some pretty sizable growth right there.
Inc.</span></strong> No it's true.
I told my wife all about it this morning.
Let me ask this then on methanol because I like I'm sure many others here are going to be less familiar with this market.
In North America methanol as a fuel additive and a potential blend into the fuel stream is that a real opportunity for growth here? Is that something that's given the change maybe in the political climate around the ethanol mandate is that something that seems realistic? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well there is a possibility actually to move or to do a methanol-to-gasoline process.
And that is one of the options that in fact OCI is looking at for the Natgasoline project itself.
And that has some really interesting implications in particular there's some demand in California for this – it's really an ultrapure form of gasoline.
So we're going to evaluate that hand-in-hand with OCI as we look forward and figure it out.
In the U.S.
though principally most of methanol production is currently used in formaldehyde and acetic acid processes it's not used that much for energy currently in the U.S.
but there is that optionality.
Although I got to say we're big fans of the ethanol market we're supporting the corn growers in ethanol.
Inc.</span></strong> All right very fair.
Thanks a lot folks.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have for questions today.
I would like to turn the call back over to Dan Swenson for closing remarks.
Thank you.
In response to Jeff Zekauskas' question about our employee count with the close of the GrowHow acquisition we have about 2 900 employees today; and with OCI being incorporated into the combined entity we anticipate that we'll have about 3 500 to 4 000 employees at transaction close.
Thank you for your participation in today's call.
Feel welcome to contact me with any follow-on questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by and welcome to the CF Industries Holdings Incorporated's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a remainder today's conference maybe recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Dan Aldridge Director of Investor Relations.
Sir the floor is yours.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Aldridge Director of Investor Relations and with me are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development; and Chris Bohn our Senior Vice President of Supply Chain.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its third quarter 2015 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we'll review the CF Industries results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide two of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by acknowledging the outstanding effort of our people to keep themselves and each other safe.
Our safety performance reflected in our reportable incident rate has continued to improve and at the end of the third quarter was a new all-time best rate of 0.80 incidents per 200 000 work-hours.
Safety is a hallmark of operational excellence and something we focus on every day.
It is a critical component of our implied license to operate and it is gratifying to see our team continue to improve our performance.
This is notable in itself but all the more remarkable because in addition to our regular operations we have thousands of extra people on our sites working to complete our capacity expansion projects along with several scheduled plant turnarounds.
I would like to thank all our employees and contractors for the focus and safety leadership they've demonstrated to contribute to this great result.
CF Industries reported EBITDA of $256 million for the third quarter and over $1.4 billion for the first nine months of 2015.
The third quarter is seasonally our slowest quarter of the year and this year in particular had a lot of noise running through the numbers.
Looking a bit more deeply into our results you will see that the EBITDA for the third quarter was remarkably similar to third quarter of 2014 after giving effect for certain distinct items.
Most notably unrealized mark-to-market losses on natural gas hedges transaction costs related to the deals announced during the quarter and gains from the remeasurement of GrowHow along with a few other items.
As you can also see from the slide – from the data on slide 21 EBITDA for the first nine months of 2015 is largely unchanged from our nine-month results for 2014 after normalizing for the non-operating item noise in both periods.
I'll now turn the call over to Bert and Dennis to go through the details of the quarter and then I will wrap-up with an update on our strategic initiatives.
Bert? Sales Distribution and Market Development</strong> Thanks Tony.
The global fertilizer market has continued to be very competitive and the supply of fertilizer has been heavily impacted by new exportable global production and lower ocean freight rates.
During 2015 and through the third quarter the devaluation of multiple currencies only exacerbated this situation.
Chinese government devalued their currency during the third quarter.
This devaluation along with less expensive coal and ocean freight help to push the international price of urea lower.
However over the last few months China has been reducing its exports.
This decline has also been evidenced in the last three India urea tenders which saw lower Chinese producer participation.
Additionally over the last few weeks several large curtailments of urea facilities have been reported in China.
The weak ruble continues to give incentive to Russia nitrogen producers to export rather than to supply domestic Russian demand.
Prices are higher outside of Russia and payment in dollars is more advantageous than in rubles.
The Brazilian real also continued its decline during the quarter and has had a negative impact on the urea market where Brazilian imports are down nearly 38% year-over-year.
In North America the third quarter is traditionally a lower demand quarter as farmers focus on the fall harvest and manufacturers build their inventories in anticipation of the fall ammonia application and spring fertilizer seasons this year was no exception.
While all these factors have led to a depressed pricing environment we believe pricing is beginning to stabilize and that we have reached the seasonal floor of anthracite coal-based production in China at around $250 a ton delivered to the U.S.
Gulf.
Sales volume for the third quarter was 3.2 million tons.
Production volume was heavily impacted by the turnaround and refurbishment at our facility in Woodward Oklahoma.
The facility was offline for 75 days during the quarter impacting year-over-year production by approximately 200 000 tons combined of UAN ammonia and DEF.
We entered the third quarter with adequate levels of ammonia inventory after a very robust first six month shipment pace.
The new Donaldsonville urea plant was expected to start production in the third quarter and therefore consume most of the excess ammonia inventory position.
However the urea plant will come on later than expected.
Coupled with the previously scheduled downtime of upgrading capacity to Donaldsonville these drove higher levels of net ammonia than usual and we made the decision to sell spot ammonia into lower-priced export markets.
During the third quarter we completed the successful UAN fill program that was launched late in the second quarter.
We were able to book over 3 million tons for the campaign at healthy netbacks.
Ammonium nitrate continued the trend of lower demand that began in 2014.
The third quarter is normally a slow demand period for AN in North America and 2015 is proven to be especially challenged.
However we were able to maintain an adequate ammonium nitrate production rate in the Yazoo City by utilizing the export channel.
In the United Kingdom AN is also experiencing slow demand but is more of a seasonal issue and we expect there to be good agricultural demand going forward.
We're optimistic about the future of North American AN given our supply agreement with Orica that will be starting in 2017 as well as continued growth in the United Kingdom.
The fundamental demand characteristics for nitrogen are strong.
In North America nitrogen fertilizer demand is expected to be slightly higher in 2016 with about 15.7 million tons of consumption.
The harvest is progressing ammonia applications have begun and the current returns for the 2016 crop based on new crop futures favor corn plantings.
As a result CF now expects 2016 plantings to be 90.5 million acres which is 2.1 million acres higher than the current year.
We have an appropriate level of inventory of product that we believe is well positioned to support our customers' needs for the fall ammonia application and spring season.
Along with stabilizing prices and lower imports this could lead to better than expected pricing for the fourth quarter.
We expect to be well positioned to sell all that we can produce.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Bert.
Beginning this quarter we have changed our segment reporting moving from four segments; ammonia urea UAN and Other to five.
Ammonium nitrate will now be reported as its own segment.
Prior to this change ammonium nitrate was part of the Other segment.
This is as a result of its greater role in our portfolio with the addition of the former GrowHow assets in the United Kingdom.
In the third quarter we generated $256 million of EBITDA on sales of $927 million.
This compares to $338 million of EBITDA on sales of $921 million in the third quarter of 2014.
As Tony discussed EBITDA results were lower than the prior year period due to a few distinct items.
First our cost of goods sold was affected by an unrealized mark-to-market loss on our natural gas hedges of $126 million.
Second we incurred $37 million in costs associated with our acquisitions.
Third we had approximately $15 million in costs related to the expansions of our Donaldsonville and Port Neal facilities.
And finally these were partially offset by a gain of $94 million related to the remeasurement of our investment in GrowHow.
During the quarter we also recorded approximately $30 million in other expenses for certain items.
These items included $17 million in fixed cost absorption related to the turnaround and refurbishment at our Woodward Oklahoma facility.
There were also approximately $6 million in costs related to the financing of the OCI deal.
The expansion projects are progressing well at both Donaldsonville and Port Neal.
We announced an increase in the projected capital costs of roughly 10% versus our previous estimate of $4.2 billion.
The main factors driving the estimate up are the finalization of engineering drawings later than we anticipated and the productivity of our contractors.
As engineering has been completed we have found that the actual construction quantities required to complete the projects exceeded earlier estimates provided by the engineering contractor.
Increases in quantities result in more labor hours required to complete the job.
And because we have placed a priority on schedule that also means more craftsmen more extended shifts and lower productivity than originally expected.
However we now have virtually all of the engineering work completed so the uncertainty going forward at least with respect to quantities of materials has been significantly reduced.
Weather and labor productivity will continue to be variables in the equation but we are beginning to see the finish lines particularly at Donaldsonville.
Including the estimated cost increase the projects are still expected to generate after-tax returns in the mid-teens which is well above our cost of capital.
This is because our initial financial forecast assumed a forward gas strip much higher than the gas strip available today.
Additionally when we did the original project economics we used a conservative nitrogen price forecast for the first several years of project operation.
For the full year 2015 we expect our total capital expenditures to be approximately $2.6 billion.
This consists of approximately $2 billion for the capacity expansion projects and approximately $600 million of sustaining and other capital expenditures.
In the third quarter the company repurchased 358 000 shares for approximately $22.5 million bringing shares outstanding down to 233 million as of September 30 2015.
Including shares repurchased during the first two quarters this brings the company's year-to-date share repurchases to 8.9 million shares for approximately $527 million.
During the quarter we completed a $1 billion private placement of senior notes.
We intend to use the proceeds to fund our capital expenditure programs and for general corporate purposes.
In the third quarter of 2015 the average realized cost of natural gas purchased by the company for North American operations was $2.77 per MMBtu a 37% decline year-over-year.
The average realized cost of gas purchased by the company in the United Kingdom in the third quarter was $6.43 per MMBtu and gas in the United Kingdom continues to trend downward as the effects of lower oil prices filter into liquefied natural gas prices and long-term gas contracts indexed to oil.
The overall average realized cost of natural gas purchased by the company in the third quarter was $3.07 per MMBtu.
During the third quarter of 2015 we did not enter into any additional hedges for the balance of 2015 but added to existing hedges for 2016 and 2017 in addition to initiating hedges for 2018.
These hedges and the fixed basis differentials we have in place for our Port Neal and Courtright complexes have taken significant amount of cost risk off the table.
For additional detail on the company's natural gas hedges please refer to the natural gas table in the appendix of the earnings release.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dennis.
Our performance financially has been very solid in 2015 particularly so given the significant headwinds we have faced; a challenging global market where abundant supply has pressured product prices currency exchange rate moves that have either helped some foreign producers become more cost competitive or made it more challenging for some importing countries to buy product and concerns over the commodity sector in general.
Even in the face of these difficulties our results for the quarter and the first nine months of 2015 were essentially unchanged from our 2014 results after normalizing for a few non-operational items.
This continues to demonstrate the strength of our business model and the enduring advantage we have from plentiful low-cost North American natural gas.
If you refer to slide 11 you will see a table that shows various EBITDA outputs for the standalone CF business after our capacity expansion projects come online as a function of our realized cost of natural gas and our average realized selling price of nitrogen products on urea equivalent basis.
You can clearly see that we remain highly profitable over a very wide range of market conditions.
On a trailing 12 month basis our average realized gas cost was $3.07 per MMBtu and average realized urea equivalent price was $343 a ton.
What this shows is even with the challenging market conditions over the past 12 months this business is very profitable and generates a significant amount of the EBITDA.
Regardless of all the noise going on around us and the fears in the market those who take more than just a cursory look at our performance will recognize the following in controvertible fact.
Our business continues to run well and we continue to deliver the EBITDA.
I would now like to pivot from the quarter and speak about the bright future ahead of CF Industries.
Over the last few months we have announced several strategic moves which will deliver significant growth in our cash generating ability.
The completion of the capacity expansion projects along with the three major transactions we've announced is expected to increase the production capacity of CF 65% by the end of 2017.
All of these initiatives have very attractive individual return profiles with unlevered after-tax returns well above our cost of capital.
And when taken as a group these initiatives are unmatched in our industry and represent an opportunity for significant near-term shareholder value creation.
On Tuesday we announced that the OCI deal has cleared U.S.
antitrust review process.
This is a major step forward in closing this deal.
And upon completion this transaction will give us the premier global footprint in the nitrogen fertilizer industry and allow us to fully leverage our global assets.
We continue to expect that we will close the OCI transaction in Q2 2016.
Our transactions with CHS are groundbreaking and should be highly accretive to our shareholders.
The product supply agreement provides us ratable off-take from a premier agricultural cooperative with which we have had a longstanding and productive relationship.
The deal provides CHS with up to 1.1 million tons of urea and 580 000 tons of UAN at market prices.
CHS has $2.8 billion equity investment in CF Industries Nitrogen LLC provides them an opportunity for achieving manufacturing economics via dividends and has validated the strength of our business model and the value it can create.
In essence a highly knowledgeable market participant values the standalone CF Industries business at an effective enterprise value of over $30 billion even before giving effect to the OCI transaction.
On the capacity expansion front we are pleased to announce that the granular urea plant at Donaldsonville is now mechanically complete and in the process of being commissioned.
We will make an announcement when the plant has achieved stable production performance.
The Donaldsonville UAN plant is on track to start up in the fourth quarter of this year and the ammonia plant to follow in early 2016.
Port Neal is also progressing well and we continue to target a startup in mid 2016.
Finally we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% equity interest in GrowHow which has made CF the largest nitrogen fertilizer producer in the United Kingdom.
These operations are well positioned in an import-dependent region and we are delighted that they are now fully part of the CF organization.
Taken together these initiatives represent significant opportunities for our company and our shareholders.
Before I close I want to reiterate that our philosophy and approach to capital allocation remains unchanged from what we have said and done in the past.
As you can see on slide 12 we expect that over the period from 2016 to 2019 we will generate significant excess cash that is unallocated.
Our first call on that capital remains investment back into the business when we can find projects within our strategic fairway that have a risk adjusted rate of return well above our cost of capital.
Beyond that excess capital belongs to and will be returned to our shareholders just like we have done consistently in the past.
I would like to thank our entire team for getting us to this point.
Many people have worked tirelessly over the preceding weeks and months to move our initiatives forward.
We have a very bright future ahead of us and we are just at the beginning of the journey.
With that we will now open the line to answer your questions.
Operator? Thank you sir.
And it looks like our first question in queue will come from the line of Chris Parkinson with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Perfect.
Thank you very much and good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Your realized ammonia price during the quarter was still slightly lower than many expected including us.
Could you just quickly comment on any differences in selling patterns here that affected your netbacks? And also if you expected benefit at all from the recent increases in the Midwest ammonia prices? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bert? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Hey good morning.
This is Bert.
And thanks for the question.
You're exactly right ammonia price was lower.
When you look at ammonia in the third quarter it is a non-agricultural application ammonia quarter.
We had a little bit that might bleed in from Q2 just for some side-dress but it's predominantly an industrial quarter.
And that was reflected in our result.
When you look at the – what drives many of our industrial contracts that would be Tampa-based pricing which was $460 in July and August and then $445 in September.
So for an average let's say of in the $450s.
Taken to a short ton that gets you pretty close to $400 and that reflects a lot of what was driving our numbers as well as gas-based contracts when you have gas in the $220 to $270 range during the quarter that drove the pricing realization lower.
Now we've exported – as we mentioned in our comments exported or sold into the spot market around 18% to 20% of our volume and that came at those numbers.
And so when you roll that up we're in line with what the international markets were actually higher but lower I think what you all expected.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And just a quick – a very quick follow up on – in addition to some of the increased costs you incurred during the quarter it still looks like some costs – on some line items were still fairly bloated in addition to the downtime at our Woodward.
Is there any comment on how we should be thinking about your margin per ton production going forward and any additional color – was there anything else that was non-recurring in the third quarter that we should be parsing out? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Chris remember that unrealized mark-to-market losses on the gas hedge positions rolled through those numbers.
So there is almost $130 million of kind of non-operational non-recurring cost that show up in those numbers.
That's one thing you have to back out.
Yeah.
And there is – yeah we also had $17 million of fixed cost absorption that's rolled through as well Chris during the quarter.
So – but just step back from it Chris our plants run with the same efficiency they've always run gas costs what it costs and our gas price profile is very good and the overheads and stuff associated with the plants are not really any different today than they were before.
So no there hasn't been margin deterioration.
If you look at SG&amp;A it's up a little bit in the quarter but it's about exactly the same for the year and that just reflects the addition of – largely just the addition of the GrowHow assets on a consolidated basis during the quarter.
And then the other operating net line you see that that moves up and down but that's mostly just forex moments for the most part and then costs associated or expense items associated with the expansion projects.
So no there is really nothing in there a much of a story.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you sir.
Our next phone question in queue will come from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Your questions please.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Could you just – I just want to sort of clarify the return calculation on the new projects.
You mentioned that obviously gas prices are lower than probably the last time you stated what the return profile was.
But I also kind of remember back from the July 2013 Analyst Day that in that return calculation you're assuming some improvement in urea prices down the road as you thought that Chinese cost curve is going to go up.
So could you just help us reconcile what gas price you're assuming now versus before and maybe what sort of break-even into the Gulf you're assuming now versus before? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Vincent let me kind of step back and talk about where we sat in 2012 when we made the decision to move forward with these projects.
At the time the forward curve was above $5.50 per MMBtu and that dramatically changes what the profitability of the output of these plants are.
We did anticipate at that time based on the number of projects that had been announced and were in flight in Middle East North Africa as well as in China that kind of 2016 was going to be sort of a low point in the pricing curve.
And so we had put forward as Dennis mentioned in his comments a pretty conservative view of where nitrogen was going to trade over the coming years before it started kind of recovering at the back-end of 2017 and into 2018.
And so nothing really that's happened in the marketplaces is all that dramatic other than the fact that overall the global cost inputs for all hydrocarbons have shifted down but if you look at kind of the effective impact on the margin that we're realizing it is not that dramatically different.
And as such there has been a little bit of deterioration particularly in Port Neal because that's where the brunt of the cost increases have occurred but the Donaldsonville project is still pretty darn close to where we had made the original calculations for a return on that.
And so as a result both projects end up kind of solidly in the mid-teens return.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
Can I just ask you separately post this whole thing with Volkswagen does anything change about the diesel exhaust fluid opportunity set over time? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Actually it's going to be positive.
We're still following that and we just participated in the energy conference here in Chicago and what the implications mechanically will be for these engines that are out already in the market that will be recalled and then for changes to the existing structure of the power unit going forward.
So we do see that as a positive step for DEF.
DEF continues to grow in the 30% to 40% range per year.
We're actively participating actively growing – actively growing our production as we already announced for Courtright and Donaldsonville.
And that's a very positive light for us going forward.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you sir.
Our next phone question comes from Steve Byrne with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Can you quantify how much ammonia and UAN you sold forward and how are those pricing outlook compared to current spot prices? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Good morning.
So for – we don't really give exact numbers although I did say 3 million tons was done in the second quarter and into the third quarter for the UAN fill program.
The fill program is at the end of the season and then that pushes us through generally November December.
We've continued to take sales after the fill program.
So we have a very healthy order book for the UAN for our UAN position going forward and are continuing to participate in the domestic as well as the international market.
As you can see from our price realization at $241 relative to today's NOLA prices that are published in the publications we think that's an incredibly positive position and we're going to continue to build on that.
For ammonia the fall season is just starting; we had a pretty good day yesterday with shipments out but we're adherents and advocates for the 4R program that the TFI and other industry participants are advocating to farmers.
And the crux of that is applying ammonia when the ground temperature is 50 degrees; and today as we sit in sunny Deerfield it's close to be 70 degrees.
So we look at the ammonia season as being delayed but we've got a lot of product sold forward and ready to be applied in November.
If you look at the 30-day forecast which we tend to follow probably every hour these days you've got positive temperatures in the 50s during the day time into the first week of December.
So we think we've got a lot of runway still to go and product is positioned.
And I think this really gives the advantage to CF.
Because of our terminal system we're able to supply and we fully supply when that condensed time does take place.
And I think this year it could be a week to 10 days that the majority of our ammonia goes out.
So we're prepared and price realization we think will be positive.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The other benefit Steve is it looks like the crop is coming off the fields in about the normal timeframe are in fact largely off.
And so there looks like a pretty good runway here in front of us for a really strong application season in the fall given the mild temperature.
So we're really pleased with where we're positioned.
And if we can roll forward a year in anticipation of the OCI deal closing what fraction of Donaldsonville production do you think you might be in a position to export with higher netbacks? And how might that vary seasonally and by what product? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Steve I think as we sit here today based on the dock configuration we're able to export approximately 50% of the D'ville production.
We have enough dock space down there where if that looks like something that we want to increase for a not that dramatic cost we can dredge the channel a little bit do some infrastructure improvements and increase our export capacity.
So we've got a fair bit of flexibility in terms of export capability there.
I would say initially we're going to kind of continue to ramp-up versus where we are but a lot of it just has to do with what is the net kind of – we're not really thinking about it from a netback margin perspective anymore we're thinking about it from a netback after-tax cash flow perspective.
And what we're going to be maximizing is a little bit of a different calculus than what we've done in the past which was focused on EBITDA and margin.
We're going to look at what's the best possible after-tax cash position.
And that might on the margin lead us to tapping into international opportunities if they look attractive.
But it's really going to be an at-the-moment decision based on the different global market conditions and where we can maximize our cash returns.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Next in line is Don Carson with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Bert I wanted to ask you about your urea outlook.
You commented that you think prices have bottomed here and perhaps stabilizing.
A year ago we're at $312 now we're at about $245 $250 NOLA urea.
You hit the trough earlier.
Do you see a bounce quicker? I mean last year we didn't get much of a bounce till early April.
So just wondering what kind of – I mean are you seeing enough attractive forward sale opportunities in urea to put together a decent forward book there? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> So right now you're right NOLA has been hovering in the $240s $250s; we've been realizing a different range of price structure based on where we're selling and how we're selling.
But I do see some positive things coming as I mentioned in my comments with the situation today in China.
We expect profitability or lack thereof is for the marginal producer the anthracite coal producer.
But when you look around the globe we do believe there is sufficient supply available and the cost curve has moved a little bit lower so we may be stabilizing in that $250 to $285.
But I do expect to see some spikes because there is – as we can see from the inventory chain not a lot of inventory is being built in North America as well as in Europe.
And we expect demand to be continued to be strong in India.
So there are some good demand points.
I don't see Brazil coming back this year.
I think as we said 38% down year-over-year.
I think that we're entering their higher demand season October November December January for the second crop corn.
So I would say we'll stay in a range – a little bit range bound this year due to capacity.
And then as Tony mentioned we're fairly positive going forward in the out-years on what can take place.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then shifting to a different subject.
On your gas hedging strategy basically 100% of your needs are locked in for 2016.
Is that the philosophy now to lock in all your needs or do you ever want to have some exposure to take advantage of the potential dip in pricing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Don we haven't really changed our philosophy at all in terms of the forward hedge.
As we sat earlier in 2015 we look forward and we could lock most of 2016 at basically $3 flat and we've been historically criticized for being too slow to lock in gas because people have said it takes risk off the table.
When we saw a forward price at $3 for the year we thought this actually makes a fair bit of sense and we didn't do it all at once we kind of stepped our way into it over a couple of different tranches.
But over the long run we think $3 is a pretty darn good cost and generally speaking if you're drilling in dry gas fields we think that's still below the replacement cost of new production and maybe lower than that or substantially lower than that in some of the wet plays but in a dry gas area.
So that was part of the rationale as we thought about locking that position is.
As we look forward we think the 2017 and 2018 curve is under pressure a little bit by where the current storage position is in the U.S.
and we would expect demand to continue to increase.
So while the positions we're sitting in 2017 and 2018 are underwater relative to where the market is trading today.
I don't think they were bad decisions to enter into in hindsight.
The other thing I want to point out is we have not hedged the gas associated with the OCI production.
So between the Beaumont facility and the Wever facility there is a fair bit of increased gas consumption that we have in North America and that remains completely unhedged and in 2016 2017 and 2018 as well.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Next in queue comes from Joel Jackson with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Just following on that I don't know if you're hedged for any gas in GrowHow UK.
Can you maybe talk about that and what your strategy for that would be going forward? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Joel.
Yeah we currently have not hedged gas in the UK it is something we are spending a fair bit of time looking at and evaluating and similarly we haven't done any kind of forward hedges for the gas that we're going to be needing at Geleen in the Netherlands as well.
Gas currently in the UK is trading sort of in and around $6 and it's kind of up to $6.50 on the forward it's relatively flat.
So as we look at that it's attractive relative to historical there is good margin to be had at that sort of gas price.
And it's something we're looking at but we haven't jumped into that so far.
Okay.
And just following up on something I think Bert was talking about so I mean the big thing this year has been that NOLA urea is really not trading at any premium to China.
Can you really talk about why that is this year? And as the expansions come on in the U.S.
when you talk about the $250 to $285 I mean is your view that's the trading range for urea over the next year as opposed to sort of a floor level? Thanks.
Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah it's an interesting conundrum as we look and watch these markets develop.
I think you're just seeing we're in a time of change and a lot of product has come on and more product will be coming on and we have to find a balance in the markets.
There are times when NOLA has traded below international parity and obviously we watched that with interest.
And when it's above we want to participate at a greater share.
And so there are some tactical moves we'd like to make internally with where we position product where we sell and how we sell.
But I think today with – and you look at the paper market and you look at what the forward markets are offering we seem to be range bound at least through 2015 and I think some of the other changes will come as a result of inventory decisions buying decisions.
But I do see like I said earlier some positive points moving forward with demand coming out of – I think increased demand coming out of India.
I hope in 2016 we see return to Brazil that plant that's in (38:32) not be operating for years.
So the 5 million tons of demand out of Brazil will probably be there and a return to some other markets.
And I don't think that Chinese anthracite coal producer can continue at their current rate of production and we're seeing that reflected in operating rates in China.
And so when you look at the 13.6 million tons exported last year estimating 12 million tons this year I expect that to slowly wind-down to probably an acceptable rate in the 5 million to 10 million tons longer term which sets up available options for CF.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The other point Joel that I'd like to bring up is as you sort of rewind the clock you can look forward and see there was this ongoing tail of new plants that were coming online in China and Middle East North Africa.
That sort of tail by the time we get to the middle of next year is largely empty from there going forward.
The U.S.
plants will be online.
Most of the Chinese plants will be completed and operating.
So there has been this pretty significant build that's left this overhang of capacity and the marginal stuff swings on and off depending upon where price is.
And as you say it sort of puts a relative cap on where prices get to before the marginal producer swings back into production again.
The global nitrogen demand is growing about 2% per year and that requires four to five world-scale ammonia complexes being brought on every year just to meet what the demand is.
And so as we look forward and the existing capacity gets absorbed into the marketplace any kind of rebound in the Chinese economy with attendant increase in coal prices there all of a sudden makes this marketplace shift into a different dynamic from a really over-heavily supplied position to one where there is some price appreciation.
So we think this is kind of the tough area to get through but even at these ranges we're highly highly profitable.
And as we get into a recovery mode we'll participate in that very very nicely.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next in queue is Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your questions please.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe a question on the ammonia market want to get your thoughts on what would happen as you get into early 2016 if Iranian sanctions are lifted and you start to see some more Iranian ammonia onto world markets? And maybe on a related topic how are you thinking about availability from the Black Sea and Trinidad over the next 6 months to 12 months? Thanks.
Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
When you look at that is an issue we're following when the sanctions are lifted.
We have already seen exports out of Iran increased by I think 1 million tons and that could possibly be a further 1 million tons of urea and not necessarily ammonia.
There are discussions we know with some Indian producers to look at possibly putting up a new plant at probably three years to four years down the road but Iran sits on a lot of gas and then it makes sense for them to monetize that gas and they will be a competitive producer and participant.
But I think the ammonia would stay more in the Asia marketplace and – because that push back Black Sea product or Ukrainian production not much of that is going there today.
And so looking at your – the second part of your question what happens to Black Sea and Ukrainian production a lot of that's going to depends on what goes forward with some of the geopolitical issues there.
But I do think that gets backed out and I think Trinidadian supply continues to move into Florida into Europe and maybe even into South America with some of the movements that are taking place today.
Ammonia as well it's – we've hit a low point in the market where Tampa is positioned today.
And so we're continuing to watch that and participate and use the benefit of our terminalling system enable to store product move product and participate at a greater degree of the agricultural markets in Q4 and Q2 of next year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Adam as we look at Trinidad going forward we continue to think that gas is going to be in the neighborhood of 10% to 15% curtailments into point leases like it's been over the last year or so.
And we don't really see any kind of catalyst for additional production coming online in Trinidad.
Given how low ammonia price is and most of those gas contracts are and product linked that the net realized price to NGC and back to the gas producers is lower than the incremental cost of bringing on new production there.
So there is not a catalyst to bring on new production we think those plants are going to continue to run well below what their rate is capable of running and that certainly helps from the standpoint of an overall S&amp;D balance.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe on a related point.
Do you think that as the new capacity in the U.S gets built out as Mosaic starts to source a meaningful increment of their ammonia needs from you guys as opposed to Tampa or the Black Sea that the U.S Gulf has to reflect freight from the Ukraine longer term? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> I think there are a lot of things driving.
That was also a point to change for the industry.
Tampa has always been a price setting mechanism for this hemisphere and you're right there will be changes we have almost 1 million ton supply with – combined with our Trinidadian contract for Mosaic.
But you have to remember that OCP is also increasing production with their diammonium phosphate monoammonium phosphate production.
So a lot of that ammonia can be sourced from either Ukraine or shooting over from Trinidad and there have been some of our colleagues in the industry have already signed some contracts for that ammonia supply.
So I think it longer term yes when our contract starts in 2017 and actually some of our other contracts that position CF well being Orica and CHS we think that all those are part of our strategy to position ourselves in what we think is going to be a good market for CF in all the four products.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll pass it along.
Thanks.
Thank you sir.
Next up is Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
When you allocate your mark-to-market losses for gas hedges across your segments does one segment or another segment get disproportionately affected or how does one think about distributing the mark-to-market losses across the segments? Yeah.
The way we look at that Jeff just I think a good way to think about it is it's basically – if you think about it around $40 a ton.
So for this quarter if you think about the mark-to-market that is embedded in the cost of goods sold for each of the segments it varies by segment.
But if you look at it across the whole business it's about $40 per ton and it's going to be based effectively on – if you look at the gas content in each of the products.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Obviously most of that goes into ammonia and then as ammonia rolls into the upgrade it carries that additional cost with it.
So as Dennis said it really goes as a function of the nutrient content or the end content in each of the products.
So ammonia is going to carry the biggest proportion of that on a per ton basis and then it's going to work its way down.
Okay.
And then I think Bert was commenting at the beginning of the call that maintenance capital expenditures were around $600 million.
And I thought that previously you had spoken of maintenance CapEx as $500 million.
Is there a reason why there has been an alteration or these are just round numbers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So generally speaking the system that we have today runs on a sustaining CapEx; this is kind of just keep-the-lights-on basis of about $350 million a year.
And what we spend about above that generally speaking are things that are improvements.
So we're putting about $60 million into the Yazoo City facility in order to be able to convert Ag AN production into industrial grade in order to serve the Orica contract and make sure that we've got that plant fully loaded going forward.
We're doing some DEF expansion projects in Courtright and in Donaldsonville so that we can add capacity for DEF.
We're doing some DCS implementations to improve our control environment and safety in a number of our facilities.
Those things are on top of it.
So as you look – and by the way a lot of those projects have pretty significant positive return profiles associated with it.
So the $600 million that we're spending next year is kind of all of that stuff bundled together outside of the capacity expansion stuff of which kind of $350 million is keep-the-lights-on; the rest of it has a pretty good return profile to it.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you sir.
Next up is Michael Piken with Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Just wanted to discuss a little bit about sort of your thoughts on the demand by region particularly for this fall.
I understand the Midwest volumes are probably going to be good with the weather windows.
But maybe if you could talk about the Delta the Southwest and some of the other areas where they've had a little bit more weather issues? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> When you look at the by-region generally the Q4 application season is ammonia-focused and we start in Canada and then move south as the weather cooperates.
And we've had an adequate season in Canada out of our three terminals as well as our plants moving that product to the ground.
I'd expect – like I said earlier we've had a pretty good day yesterday but we're still not at full shipping rates out of the terminals.
And so you'll start seeing the Dakotas and Iowa and Nebraska places like that kicking off here shortly.
And then the Kansas Oklahoma Texas region already had part of their ammonia season go in Q3 which was focused on wheat pre-plant and so that's more of a July August September application.
And as we mentioned our Woodward plant was down so we were unable to participate in a lot of that shipment season.
In Texas and for some of the corn acres they've had a lot of good moisture and we're pretty pleased to see with some of the rains that have come through.
That's also good for the Midwest which allows ammonia to set and so with a good moisture profile in the soil that allows your applications to move forward.
In the Delta I can't really comment too much in that region we're getting ready for ammonium nitrate in the Southeast in the Delta region.
Other than that that's pretty much all I can comment.
Okay.
Terrific.
Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> And then we'll look to Q1 and Q2.
All right.
Terrific.
And then if we do end up having a bigger ammonia run as you guys sort of anticipate nationwide how does that impact your thinking on what UAN volumes might look like in the first half of next year.
Thanks.
Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
When you look at ammonia over time it's fairly consistent.
We're projecting 4.7 million tons.
It has been a little over 5 million tons in years past when we were – and we had some higher acres numbers.
But we see acres recovering into the 90 million range – 90 million 91 million.
And so I think with the pricing structure that's available to a farmer and through the retail system it's pretty attractive to apply ammonia.
But we have to think of all the three major products in conjunction or in – together on an end value.
And so you can't get too distanced from what ammonia is for urea and UAN.
And we're mindful of that and we're keeping our pricing in line with historical averages.
So we're fairly positive on UAN demand and what will take place for Q1 and Q2.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question in queue comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
It's Dan Jester on for P.J.
Given the comments today about a bit more inflation in your project costs as you get closer to the finish line has OCI informed you of any cost increase or delays to their project in Iowa or the methanol plant in Texas and if so who would be responsible for addressing those higher costs? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Dan so the contract that we have with OCI puts an absolute dollar limit cap on the amount of cost that kind of gets transfer to us from the completion actually both of those facilities.
So we know what the ceiling is in both cases and at least with respect to Wever my understanding is OCI has a fixed dollar cap limit for the construction piece with the construction company that they're using.
So it really at this point is kind of on the contractors' nickel once they – there is a little of cushion in there that once they're through that cushion it's all on the contractors' nickel.
So we're kind of $1 certain in terms of at least the top end of the cost if it comes in lower than that it will be a favorable surprise to us.
But we're anticipating and modeling and assuming that we're going to bear the ceiling on those costs on those projects.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I think we've touched on it a couple of times in the call already but I just want to clarify is the 12 million tons of Chinese exports that you were thinking about this year for urea is that a good run rate to think about going into 2016 or is there a possibility that that could come down again? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah when you look at China every year is an anomaly.
When you see the numbers ramp-up from zero tons 2 million tons 4 million tons 8 million tons 13 million tons and so we're modeling this year coming down to 12 million tons.
I think based on – again cost structure market optionality and how we see the market developing I think that's a declining run rate.
But I'm not comfortable giving you a specific number.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And it looks like our next question will come from the line of Andrew Wong with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
So in the prepared remarks I think you mentioned OCI's close expectation is a mid-2016.
Is that any different from prior expectations? And can you just talk about what needs to be done after that – for that transaction to be close? And when the transaction closes does that mean you can start doing the repurchases right away? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Andrew so the – we've got antitrust clearance now in the U.S.
We filed our final filing for European antitrust clearance and so really the kind of the long pole in the tent on this whole process revolves around kind of the SEC process from getting the S-4 offering document through the SEC review period – process and having an effective document that we can send to shareholders.
As soon as that goes to shareholders as effective we can post our annual meeting date or our special meeting date we'll have the meeting for the vote on both the OCI and the CF side and then according to Dutch Law there is a 60-day wait period following the approval of the shareholders for a reduction in capital in the OCI business that gives their creditors a chance to be notified appropriately.
So it's really kind of the wait period between noticing the annual – of the shareholder meeting having a shareholder meeting and then the 60-day creditor notice that pushes us how we think likely into kind of the Q2 time horizon.
Part of that depends upon how quickly we can get through the SEC review period on the S-4.
But we're certainly working very diligently on trying to expedite that process as much as possible.
And then once we're closed as long as we're not in the dark window or the blackout window around a quarter between sort of the quarter closing and announcing results that type of thing.
The window is open and we'll be able to go ahead and initiate share repurchases at that point.
Okay.
That's great.
And then just switching gears a little bit over to Woodward.
I think in the past you've done a really good job minimizing the disruptions from just normal plant turnarounds but impact from Woodward seemed to be a little bit more material than expected.
Was the turnaround longer than anticipated? And going forward can we expect any sort of guidance around some sort of – the extended maintenance more than the usual type stuff? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So on Woodward this year it was a pretty major turnaround.
This was really the first opportunity that we've had to go in and kind of convert the plant over to the CF's standards for doing things.
So we implemented a full DCS system in the Woodward plant.
We did a complete re-harp of the reformer and then there was just a fair bit of found work from things that – in the preceding period before we owned the plant had not really kind of been kept up to our standards.
And so as a result of the found work it did extend a little longer than what was originally planned and the costs were a bit higher that led to then the fixed cost absorption that we had to go through.
But our focus is to make sure the plants are safe make sure we can get high on-stream and reliability out of them and we feel very good about the state of that plant now on a go-forward basis so that we'll be able to run it hard.
And any potential for guidance going forward on a sort of like extended turnarounds? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We generally speaking don't provide a lot of turnaround information part of that is because we've managed very carefully kind of what our inventory position is and how we satisfy our customers' requirements and we don't think it necessarily helps to give all of our competitors that sort of detail around how to plan for what our production looks like.
Okay.
No that's fair.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
And at this time that does conclude our time for questions.
I'd like to turn the program back over to Dan Aldridge for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Huey (59:21).
That concludes our call for today.
I'm available for any follow up questions.
Thanks everybody for your time and interest.
Thank you presenters and thank you to all of our participants for joining us today.
This will conclude our call.
Thank you.
And have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CF Industries Holdings Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shannon and I'll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question-and-answer session towards the end of the presentation.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
Dan Aldridge Director of Investor Relations.
Sir please proceed.
Thanks Shannon.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on this conference call for CF Industries Holdings Inc.
I'm Dan Aldridge Director of Investor Relations and with me today are Tony Will our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Kelleher our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bert Frost our Senior Vice President of Sales Distribution and Market Development; and Chris Bohn our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing.
CF Industries Holdings Inc.
reported its fourth quarter 2015 results yesterday afternoon as did Terra Nitrogen Company L.P.
On this call we will review the CF Industries' results in detail and discuss our outlook referring to several of the slides that are posted on our website.
At the end of the call we'll host a question-and-answer session.
As you review the news releases posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at cfindustries.com and as you listen to this conference call please recognize that they contain forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide three of the accompanying presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
This conference call will include discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures.
In each case a presentation of the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP and coinciding reconciliation of a non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the earnings release and the slides for this webcast presentation on the company's website www.cfindustries.com.
Now let me introduce Tony Will our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
Last night we posted fourth quarter and full year results for 2015.
For the fourth quarter CF Industries generated EBITDA of $254 million and full year EBITDA of $1.7 billion.
After taking into account hedging losses and impairment loss on our Trinidad joint venture equity investment costs related to both the CHS Strategic Venture and the OCI Transaction and expenses related to the expansion projects adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $451 million and adjusted EBITDA for the full year was $2 billion.
Despite difficult market conditions we generated gross margin of over 25% in the fourth quarter and over 35% for the year.
If not for the unrealized mark-to-market losses of roughly $100 million on natural gas hedges our gross margin for the fourth quarter would have been approximately 34%.
And if not for the unrealized mark-to-market loss of approximately $175 million our gross margin for the full year was roughly 40%.
Our quarterly and full year results continue to demonstrate the cash generating capability of this company.
We consistently deliver solid results because of our cost advantage position within the industry despite the fact that the global fertilizer market is oversupplied.
In several production regions of the world currency devaluations and other factors have reduced costs for high-cost producers some of which have continued to run despite negative margins leading to excess supply.
As a result there has been downward pressure on prices.
Urea transactions have been reported at price levels not seen in the decade.
However even against this backdrop we still delivered full year adjusted EBITDA of $2 billion.
Our business is not like other commodities.
It shares little to nothing with iron steel copper or coal.
A country or region with a slowing economy may stop building skyscrapers ships and highways but its people still need to eat.
Global nitrogen demand remains strong and growing.
To be sure there is excess supply but we occupy the lowest cost position in the industry and continue to generate significant cash.
All commodities are not created equal and it is critically important to keep a perspective on the underlying fundamentals of our business as distinct from others.
First several weeks ago there were reports of urea trading in the U.S.
Gulf at or below $200 per short ton.
While some business was done at this level the volume was extremely thin because these prices were well below the replacement cost for the marginal producers.
As we suspected all along available volume was scarce and just two weeks later urea is now reported trading in the range of $250 per ton up more than 25% from the beginning of February.
Second we have seen a decrease in both Chinese exports and urea plant operating rates.
The most recent industry publications for the Chinese fertilizer market indicate that operating rates for coal-based urea producers have declined to 66% in January from 73% in December.
While that may not sound like a large amount this seven point drop in Chinese operating rates equates to a reduction of approximately 6 million tons of urea on an annual basis.
These facts suggest to us that previously published prices are not sustainable.
Third even at the $200 per ton price trough published in January a typical U.S.
Gulf producer of urea generates roughly 50% cash margins.
This is driven by low cost North American natural gas providing us the sustainable advantage versus producers in other regions further bolstered by the import-dependent nature of North America.
So it should be obvious that the sky is not falling that nitrogen is not like other commodities and that our business remains highly attractive and continues to generate significant cash.
Turning to our strategic initiatives we have made significant progress and are now in full delivery mode.
Since our last earnings call we amended our announced business combination with OCI's European North American and global trading and distribution businesses to incorporate in and become a tax resident of the Netherlands.
We expect to close this transaction in the middle of 2016.
We commenced our strategic venture with CHS receiving a $2.8 billion payment and have begun shipping product under the supply agreement.
We have also entered the final stages of our capacity expansion projects.
The Donaldsonville urea plant has been in production since November of last year.
The UAN plant is mechanically complete and in the process of being commissioned.
And we expect the welding and piping work on the ammonia plant which represents the majority of the remaining work and cost to be completed within the next eight weeks.
We also expect Port Neal to be mechanically complete in the second quarter of 2016 meaning all of our spending on these projects will very soon be behind us.
The total costs for both projects remains in line with our previous estimates and similarly our projected returns for the projects have not changed.
I'll now turn the call over to Bert and Dennis to go through the details of the quarter.
And then I'll wrap up with some perspectives on strategy and the longer term outlook.
Bert? Sales Distribution and Market Development</strong> Thanks Tony.
The global nitrogen market continues to be supply-driven with increased availability of internationally sourced product pressuring prices.
During the fourth quarter prices for all fertilizer products declined including nitrogen.
Excess supply around the world and new capacity coming online all helped to push the market lower.
Urea prices declined throughout the quarter decreasing from a high of $260 per short ton fob NOLA at the beginning of the quarter to $220 per short ton fob NOLA at the end of the quarter.
As Tony said very little business was done at these low levels as the market was highly illiquid.
During the fourth quarter the Chinese government allowed the yuan to devalue further continuing a trend that began in the third quarter of 2015.
When accounting for the devaluation along with a decrease in coal prices and continued weakness in ocean freight cash costs of urea production for the marginal Chinese anthracite coal-based producer are now estimated to be near the seasonal low of roughly $225 per short ton delivered to the U.S.
Gulf.
As Tony mentioned production rates in China are declining and some high-cost producers have already curtailed production or shut down altogether.
Exports out of China were 1.5 million tons lower in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014.
For the full year 2015 exports totaled approximately 13.8 million tons which is slightly higher than the full year 2014.
In the U.S.
industrial ammonia demand was impacted by lower phosphate production and the fourth quarter agricultural ammonia application season was negatively impacted by weather.
Warm weather into early November coupled with the combination of rain and snow later that month limited most of the Midwest from getting applications completed.
In addition customers were reluctant to buy urea and UAN during much of the fourth quarter due to the prospect of lower prices in the future.
So weather-related disruption of the fourth quarter ammonia application season along with delayed purchases of UAN and urea during the fourth quarter should lead to a larger than average spring demand and a corresponding rebound in prices as nitrogen fertilizer must be applied on an annual basis.
Ahead of spring the company is well positioned with inventory prepared to serve key markets.
Nitrogen fertilizer demand in North America is expected to remain steady in 2016 compared to 2015.
Current projected returns for the 2016 crop based on new crop futures continue to favor corn plantings over soybeans.
As a result 2016 corn planting is expected to reach approximately 90.5 million acres which is a 2.5 million acre increase from 2015.
North American natural gas continues to provide the company a substantial cost advantage compared to other global producers.
The North American natural gas market began the fourth quarter of 2015 with minimal price movement and lower volatility.
However that quickly turned into a sharp downward shift in prices in the latter half of October.
Stronger than expected El Niño conditions brought warmer weather that continued through much of the quarter and was a large contributor to the significant decrease in gas demand.
Natural gas consumption in North America for residential and commercial uses during the fourth quarter of 2015 was 16% lower than the end of the fourth quarter of 2014.
Despite the continued decrease in rig count gas production continued at record levels during the fourth quarter and the storage balance in North America reached a record level of 4 trillion cubic feet at the end of the injection season.
Now let me turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Bert.
In the fourth quarter we generated $254 million of EBITDA and earnings per diluted share of $0.11.
Included in these results were approximately a $98 million unrealized mark-to-market loss on our natural gas hedges a $62 million loss for an impairment of our PLNL joint venture equity investment $20 million in transaction costs related to the OCI Transaction and the CHS Strategic Venture $15 million in expansion costs for our Donaldsonville and Port Neal facilities and a $3 million loss on our foreign currency hedges.
When taking these items into account our adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $451 million and our adjusted earnings per diluted share was $0.76.
For the year we generated $1.7 billion of EBITDA and earnings per diluted share of $2.96.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $2 billion and our adjusted net earnings per diluted share was $3.88.
Our realized natural gas cost for the quarter was $3.07 per MMBtu and consisted of purchased natural gas of $2.66 per MMBtu and a realized loss of $0.41 per MMBtu on our natural gas hedges for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Our natural gas cost has declined by 25% when compared with fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full year 2015 our realized natural gas cost was also $3.07 per MMBtu a 28% reduction compared to 2014.
During the fourth quarter the company did not enter into any additional natural gas hedges.
The company completed a review of its equity method investment in Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited PLNL our 50% investment in an ammonia production joint venture located in The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
This review assessed the recoverability of the company's carrying value of the investment.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 the company recognized an impairment charge of $62 million relating to its investment in PLNL due to continuing gas curtailments from the government controlled gas supplier and the expectation is that these curtailments will continue.
On December 18 2015 the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes PATH Act was signed into law and applies to tax years 2015 through 2019.
One of the provisions of the Act permits companies to deduct 50% of their capital expenditures for federal income tax purposes in the year qualifying assets were placed into service.
As a result of this provision for the year ended December 31 2015 the company recorded a federal tax receivable of approximately $120 million that is expected to result in a tax refund.
This receivable is primarily associated with the new urea plant and related offsites that were placed into service at the company's Donaldsonville Louisiana complex during November of 2015.
In 2016 the company expects to place into service the new UAN and ammonia plants at Donaldsonville and the new urea and ammonia plants at Port Neal.
Most of these assets will also qualify for the 50% bonus depreciation for fiscal year 2016.
As a result of these additional assets being placed into service in 2016 the company expects to have significantly reduced cash tax payments for the year.
For the full year 2015 our total capital expenditures were approximately $2.5 billion.
This consists of approximately $1.7 billion for the capacity expansion projects plus approximately $600 million of sustaining improvement and other capital expenditures and $155 million of capitalized interest.
For 2016 the company expects to have capital expenditures of approximately $1.8 billion of which $1.2 billion will be for the capacity expansion projects and $600 million will be for sustaining improvement and other projects.
With that Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&amp;A.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thanks Dennis.
Before we move on to Q&amp;A I wanted to review our near and longer term outlook and the significant benefits of our strategic initiatives.
As we have already discussed our business continues its strong operating performance delivering $2 billion of adjusted EBITDA in 2015.
Looking at the fundamentals the cash margins for North American producers are in the 50% to 60% range even with today's market conditions.
Against this healthy backdrop over the next roughly six months we are about to grow significantly adding 60% new production capacity to our portfolio with very similar margin structures to our current business.
We are investment grade and have a very strong balance sheet having just received $2.8 billion in cash.
Our spending on the capacity expansion projects is quickly coming to an end as we expect to be fully mechanically complete within the second quarter.
Our business combination with OCI is expected to deliver roughly $500 million annually in after-tax full run rate benefits.
And we expect our longer term effective tax rate to drop from 35% into the low 20%s making us that much more efficient at converting EBITDA into cash.
Finally bonus depreciation will provide us significant cash flow benefit this year.
The bright future we've been talking about is arriving now.
This is a lot of very positive change all being delivered in a short period of time.
However one thing is constant through it all and that is our focused strategy for driving total shareholder returns.
Our goal is to grow cash generation per share and our capital allocation philosophy flows from that.
We first look to grow our cash generation the numerator in the equation.
We do that with investments that have risk adjusted rates of return well above our cost of capital and only if they drive cash flow per share accretion.
Otherwise we look to reduce our outstanding share count thereby reducing the denominator in the equation.
Consistent with our past actions all excess cash will be returned to shareholders but we are fully committed to maintaining our solid investment grade credit rating.
As we look forward we believe there will be significant cash available for deployment.
We will do that consistent with our singular goal of growing cash generation per share just like we have in the past.
I want to end today's call by thanking all of our employees who have worked so hard not only on all of our strategic initiatives but also keeping the core CF business running so strongly on a daily basis while delivering our best ever safety performance a truly remarkable accomplishment.
Many of the steps we have taken are already showing results and I am excited that the next six months should see all of our initiatives move from planning and development into actually delivering cash flow to the bottom line.
With that we'll now open the line to answer your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Our first question is from Ben Isaacson with Scotiabank.
You may begin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
This is Carl Chen stepping in for Ben.
Thank you for taking my question.
So we have seen an incredible rally in the urea prices over the past weeks owing to the prospect of an early spring.
Can you please also comment on your expectation for the strength of the ammonia and the UAN pricing recovery given that Mosaic decided to curtail that production in Q1 and this early spring could reduce the need for UAN side-dressing? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Carl I'm going to ask Bert to take that question.
But just one observation when you talk about an incredible rally in urea I mean the observation I think that a lot of us around the table would make is that the trough pricing that was reported in January was a little bit artificial.
It doesn't really reflect where the market has any kind of liquidity or volume.
And that's one of the reasons why it looks like it'd come back because the minute there was any sort of demand it rebounded to what the real value of the product is.
But Bert do you want to handle the - Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> No I agree with you about the urea market.
It has recovered probably to more of a normal price range.
And I think we have an anomaly like you said very few barges were traded at those lower levels.
And we know that because we entered the market to buy a few and they were not there.
I do anticipate we are seeing now probably the opportunity for an early spring.
Applications have already begun in the Southwest Texas Oklahoma and the temperatures this weekend are very conducive to continue that activity.
And I think as you see that warming trend move through drying trend throughout the Midwest I would think that within a month in the upper Midwest that being Nebraska Iowa we may even see applications beginning then.
You're correct that a lot of the ammonia stays within the producers hands and is available to the customers those being the retailers which then sell to the farmers for application.
And I think the order trend has been a little bit different than in previous years but the feedback we're getting from our customers is that there will be significant demand.
We lost a lot of ammonia applications in the fall just due to the weather issues we articulated and so that – and it will still be needed to be applied.
And so as you move that to spring we're going to need almost a record ammonia season in order to fill some of that nitrogen demand which I think will be difficult.
And so for your comment on UAN we believe that's going to fall either to urea or both the urea and UAN.
And we're positioning our products and our terminals with our customers for that eventuality that we're seeing a pretty healthy market going forward for nitrogen on the demand side and a parallel positive position for pricing going into and through spring and even on the back half.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Perfect.
And then maybe just a follow-up question.
We have seen some reports indicate that Chinese urea producers are producing below costs and stockpiling in the anticipation of a strong spring application similar to last year.
If this spring application disappoints in China do you have a sense of how this residual inventory could weight on urea prices abroad? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Today the indications we're getting out of China are that the terminal and the port inventories are lower than normal.
And that makes economic sense.
As what we said in the comments was we believe that the Chinese producers a majority of them have been operating at or below costs.
There is very little incentive for them to push products to the ports.
So we're seeing the Chinese industry operate rationally.
And according to economic principles eventually gravity does work even in China.
And so when you look at today what's going on in China wheat top-dress has begun in China and you're seeing product move into those markets.
Today the domestic price is better and there the incentive then is for the Chinese producer the urea producer to keep that product moving to the interior.
And then they'll probably look to the export market as we move through spring.
Today if you loaded a Chinese vessel let's say March 1 and we're sending that to the United States to New Orleans it would probably be a 45 day voyage and then discharge arriving in mid to late April and you're starting to get a little bit late.
There have been some Chinese vessels sold for this spring and we think they'll arrive in late March through early April.
But once you get past April it's difficult to have that product be applied for the spring and post planting season.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Byrne with Bank of America.
You may begin.
Yes.
Thank you.
Bert do you have an estimate of how much nitrogen inventory is in the retail channel now? And how does that compare to historical levels for mid-February? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah Steve good morning.
It is a little bit anecdotal but we do spend a lot of time trying to determine what the physical inventory position is whether that'd be dry on urea or UAN in the tanks.
Most of the ammonia is sitting with us or the other producers in the terminal system throughout the Midwest.
And so what we know just based on imports and production levels of UAN we expect that those levels are lower than historical due to the fact that we trended into fertilizer year 2016 at a low level of inventory entering that season and then the production and imports together with that build our number.
On urea I think there's a sufficient inventory to begin the season.
You can look at the import numbers and then again at the production numbers and our production numbers.
So there is enough probably in position but is in the right position and then the second round of product that needs to be available.
And I think that's why you've seen this rally is the scramble to get product in position.
And how would you characterize those customers of yours? Are they fully engaged now in rebuilding inventory for what you described as that second round or some of them still on the sidelines? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> It's like a family.
Everybody has a different opinion when you sit around and talk politics same thing about inventory on fertilizer.
We've just participated in a TFI and met with a majority of our customers and we had the whole range of opinions of I'm not going to buy until the farmer comes in to purchase and they'll pay the appropriate price at that time to those who have prepared and we're anticipating.
And so we're working with each of our customers at their risk level or their risk appetite and some of that inventory has stayed with us and we're quite fine with that because we believe in the size of this spring application season and the need for this product will be probably very robust.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe a question on the UAN market if I will I mean you've had a pretty big spike in urea in the last 10 days or so.
And I know Tony you said hey that was depressed in January and there's very little volume there but at the same time the UAN market trended down in conjunction with urea.
And if I look at spot pricing I would say that urea is trading at a premium on an end value basis to UAN which seems unusual.
And so I'm trying to think about A how your order book on UAN looks prospectively given there's less dependence on imports there? And B how you think about the balance between the two products on an end value basis as we go into the spring? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah good morning Adam.
You did see a movement in UAN in January.
We readjusted or adjusted our prices at that point but the urea market stayed very steady July through into January.
And there was a reflection on an end basis at that time to move UAN more in line with urea.
But as you've seen urea move up we've seen a demand build for UAN and we believe that will continue through spring.
UAN's a great product.
It's so versatile and how it can be used not only in wheat and corn.
And so I do believe that you're going to see a price increase or a value increase going into spring for UAN as well.
And as you look at your own order book today versus prior years on UAN would you say you're ahead of last year behind last year or any comments there? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah every year is different.
And so it's more of you can be ahead or behind them I'm not sure if that's as meaningful as what the value associated with the product and the gas price.
So we're pretty excited about the level that we're able to buy our feedstock.
And I would think that at these lower levels it's not as attractive to us to sell.
And so we would prefer to wait for some appreciation.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
You may begin.
Hi good morning.
This is Neel Kumar calling in for Vincent.
I was just wondering if you could speak about some of the inputs you're assuming to build up to the marginal cost figure of $225 per short ton specifically in terms of anthracite coal prices freight? And also can you just talk about how these inputs have changed from your 3Q estimate of marginal cost of $250 to $285 per short ton? Yeah sure Neel this is Dennis Kelleher.
I'm just trying to get to this slide that you're talking about here in the deck.
What we've done here is basically what we look at is basically all of the costs that exist at the plant site and that includes cost to ship the coal to it the costs at the plant sites that are incurred and the cost to ship that product to the port and then obviously to load it so that it can be loaded on the boat and shipped to the U.S.
Gulf.
So all of those inputs sort of from the coal mine all the way through to the product arriving at the U.S.
Gulf are included here.
And what we do is on a regular basis we're going to update that for everything from Chinese exchange rates to Chinese coal costs in addition to that to freight rates and we do this across the curve.
And so what's happened if you look at sort of where we've come to is you've seen a decline in coal prices but you've also seen a decline in the RMB exchange rate and we've also seen a decline in shipping rates.
And so that's what accounts for sort of the shift to downward in what we call the seasonal floor price range.
And I want to be clear that this is a seasonal floor price range because we're saying it's $225 to $270.
And what we do perhaps differently from the way other producers look at it is we look at the fluctuations in monthly off-take for urea.
And so during low periods you'll see lower prices like we've seen here in January and February.
And then during high periods like when you get into the spring it takes more dollars to bid the more expensive marginal producers into the market.
But that's basically how we do this.
We look at each of the bars here in the cost curve and we will update that.
With respect to China we've got a lot of insight because of studies that we've done on a plant-by-plant basis.
And so we will update the cost on a plant-by-plant basis for the various subsets of their producers.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> But to be specific we're assuming $115 per metric ton (31:41) coal and using RMB exchange rate of $6.55.
(31:49) So that's $6.51this morning.
Great.
That's pretty helpful.
And there's a quick second question.
I was just wondering if your thinking has changed at all in terms of target leverage.
I know previously you had mentioned 2 to 2.5 times.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> On the leverage front we're still 2 to 2.5 times.
I think as we get through the OCI transaction and reduce our effective tax rate you could argue that the same amount of EBITDA actually goes farther because we're much more efficient at converting EBITDA into cash.
So you can see maybe another half turn of additional leverage that we could take on so somewhere in the 2 to 3 times range I think is probably reasonable but we haven't socialized that necessarily with all of the rating agencies and so forth.
And our view is always we want to maintain solid investment grade rating but have an efficient balance sheet.
So we're going to thread the needle on those two constraints.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joel Jackson with BMO Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning.
I wonder if you could give a couple of updates on methanol and the Natgasoline project.
Where are you in your thoughts on that commodity and if that is something you want to keep in the deal? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Good morning Joel.
So as we've talked about in the past there is a closing condition for Natgasoline that it has project financing.
It is a very difficult project financing marketplace out there right now.
And so in the last that was able to satisfy the closing condition or we otherwise wave it then Natgasoline would be excluded from the deal.
So we're not in a position right now where it's a decision time on any of that but the closing conditions are pretty clearly spelled out.
That's one of the reasons the lack of project financing was one of the reasons along with comments that we received from the SEC that in the last S-4 filing that we made which you saw was an assumption that Natgasoline was not part of the deal with a footnote that said it could be included.
And that reflects just the status of financing on that project.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And a couple of updates can you talk about Verdigris some of the outages there? And also there are a lot of trade general reports that perhaps as the new capacity at D'ville's come up there's been some issues with that production.
Are there any issues that you could speak of? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> We're very happy with the new plant at Donaldsonville.
It's running well.
And look I don't know how people drew that conclusion that the plant isn't running well.
I think as Bert mentioned we saw where pricing was trading on urea and thought hey at that level we're buyers not sellers.
So our decision to go in and grab a few barges had nothing to do with production problems.
It was all about intrinsic value of the product versus where it was trading.
So Chris I'll let you talk about it.
Manufacturing</span></strong> Yeah.
And on the Verdigris we have an ammonia plant.
When we were doing the turnaround last year on the ammonia plant we saw that we needed to replace some of the internals and catalysts.
And that's the work that we're doing right now on that plant.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> It's just some routine maintenance that we're taking care of.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Don Carson with Susquehanna.
You may begin.
Yes.
Thank you.
Just question your forward order book I noticed your customer advances were down almost 50% in dollar terms year-over-year.
I assume your forward order book volumes were down even more.
And Tony you made references to some barges you were buying because of intrinsic value.
It seems you've been more aggressive in buying out barges this year where you think the price is attractive.
Is that an accurate assessment? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Well I'd say Don that we have not really done that historically.
And so even if were we to buy one or two barges that would be by definition more aggressive than we've been in the past but we just looked at the numbers and said this price makes no sense.
And we were – we have more than enough demand to accommodate us bringing on some barges.
So we were in the mode of wanting to vacuum some of that up.
I'll ask Bert to comment on the forward order book.
Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Couple of things on the forward order book.
When – just on the overall price differentials for this spring compared to last spring you've seen probably $100 per product change.
So that's just on the aggregate dollar terms you mentioned.
But having a forward order book or not having a forward book to me is a reflection of your view of the market.
We are interested in selling forward.
We have a plant and logistical assets that we need to maintain and move.
So there is an incentive and matter of fact there is a requirement to make sure that that happens.
However that's also compared or contrasted against what the market is offering and the view that we think the market's going to improve.
So the incentive to have a forward order book in January and December just wasn't there.
And we have the capability to hold that product in inventory or change the production mix or export product.
And so we were able to maintain and move through those periods a lot better than I think we used to.
And that's what you're seeing to me is reflected in that number rather than a desire to be out there to build the order book at lower prices.
So most of this recent price fly up should be realized as you go forward in contrast to last year where you had locked in more forward business? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll let you make that decision but we think the spring is going to be positive.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Matthew Korn with Barclays.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning everybody.
Let me ask this what right now are the most opportune export markets for you today both in geography and product? Wondering if the disarray in Brazil has allowed there for any development for foundations of a UAN market down there.
And then just in terms of housekeeping how much product that you actually send offshore this past quarter and this past year? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah.
So when you look at the export markets it's the marginal ton or the incremental ton for us at this point.
We're in North America.
It's an import market where we have our assets well placed.
And when I say asset that's the whole base production logistics terminals pipelines to serve the American or the North American farmer.
So we want to be active participants in this market and monetize our position here.
And then the next step is looking at the export market.
As we're adding this new capacity to be a 12 month 365 day producer of these products you need to be able to move things out and at times move them out in large quantities.
So that's when we look to the export markets.
We are active today in France in Belgium Argentina Mexico Brazil on UAN.
We've opened up Columbia recently.
And so when we're focused on products today it's predominantly a UAN play.
And then next step we've had some ammonia exports.
We've worked with various people in that market as well as destination consumers but urea is coming.
As we've brought up the new plant and as we move to the spring we believe that we'll be active more in the world urea market.
And so I think you'll just see our export participation continue to grow and to be an integral part of our business.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> The other thing I'd add to Bert's comment is that particularly once we're through the OCI transaction and have that trading and distribution business as part of the fold our desire to export will likely increase.
And that's one of the reasons that Bert and his team have been really developing some of these other market opportunities for us like UAN into Brazil and Argentina giving us ready demand and outlets for that product as we go through the OCI deal.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
Let me ask this then everyone of course is focused on currency implications for price floor risk.
But on a different angle is there any immediate risk you see as a function of China's removal of their crop price support? Does that that put their domestic planting their nitrogen demand at significant risk or threatening its ability to absorb as much of its own supply? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> So Matthew just on the currency devaluation issue.
You know that central bank stepped in recently and provided some exchange rate pegging that's actually more favorable than where we thought things were likely going to go.
We thought the exchange could close to $7 and it's kind of pegged and the holding steady at $6.51 or $6.50.
So from that perspective I think there is at least as we see it today a little bit less risk on the exchange rate side.
But Bert why don't you go ahead and handle that? Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> Yeah I think when you at what is going on with corn price supports and corn production you've seen an interesting change over last 10 to 15 years as China has outsourced their soybean production to Brazil Argentina the United States and has continued to grow and with that grow their end demand for corn and wheat and the stockpiles of corn aren't high.
That has created some perverse incentives.
And so you see sorghum and DDGs and things – and those substitute products coming in at a greater level into China.
So I think with this release on pricing for corn you're probably going to see – you could see maybe a lower level of planting but again it's at a pretty high price today with that subsidy and – but they also have a fairly low yield.
So several things are changing in China.
The move to acquire Syngenta which we believe with the seed technology and then germplasm associated with that and the change possibly to GMO products in China I think we have an evolving situation coupled with the change in the economy this currency devaluation all of these things together.
I think it's a little early to predict what that result will be to nitrogen but we see each of these steps as positive opening steps and greater participation in the global market which sustains the price of corn soybeans and wheat going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
Thanks gentlemen.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Two easy questions.
You mentioned the prospect of a stronger than normal back half of the year.
I'm curious if you expect to carry out more inventory from spring or whether the ramp in new capacity is enough to take care of that? And then the second question I'm assuming you're still unhedged on the European business.
And I wonder if you could talk about how your hedging strategy is going to evolve as you pick up OCI? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> So let me I think make one clarification and I'll ask Bert to pick up that one.
But I think when we're talking about a stronger second half of the fertilizer year as opposed to a stronger half of – the second half of the calendar year because what happened was...
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> ...
with the low level of application of ammonia in the fall or relatively lighter application we still see total nitrogen aggregate demand in North America being roughly equivalent to where it was last year.
So corn acres are up a bit.
Wheat acres we think are down a bit.
Overall kind of the same amount of nitrogen but with less going down in the fall that means more has got to go down in the spring in order to get the same kind of yield.
So that's why we're pretty bullish here on the spring application season.
I think everyone says the second half of the year once you get past July 1 that's a complete reset and you start all over again.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> I don't know that we're taking a strong position on that one.
Relative to Europe yeah we are completely unhedged both on the UK production as well as anything on the Continent.
And our view historically has been that we hedge in order to take out price volatility typically associated with weather-related events.
And recently here as we got into last year we took some longer positions in North America.
Obviously those positions are upside down.
And as we have kind of stepped back and evaluated our thinking on this I think you'll see us head more towards our traditional approach which is the hedging is really not try to lock-in any particular cost base over a long period of time but it's really to take out seasonal volatility and possibly get rid of some basis risk.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Parkinson with Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Can you comment on your longer-term expectations regarding the respective cost curves for ammonia and nitrates versus urea due to the regional differences of feedstock costs FX et cetera? And then based on this how do you perceive the average price spread in terms of nutrient tons? Do you believe parities will hold or even potentially expand specifically in the potential event of further yuan depreciation? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Yeah Chris.
Let me start off on kind of the long-term or how we view sort of mid-cycle pricing which is the way that we kind of evaluate that is based on low cost gas regions bringing on new capacity new capacity will continue to be added until the next marginal plants only reaches its kind of cost of capital return.
And that's the price at which we say is kind of long-term mid-cycle prices.
Even though feedstock costs have declined as you've said one of the things that's helpful in that equation is the fact that capital cost continues to increase.
And the lowest cost gas region right now in terms of added new facilities is North America.
And if you look at what the cost to bring new production on in North America it is very high as we know all too well.
And the result of that is we have not seen a dramatic shift in our long-term view of where pricing has to be in order to support a healthy marketplace.
It's moved a little bit but not dramatically.
And it's really the vast majority of the cost is in the ammonia-making step from a variable cost perspective.
And so we believe that you'll continue to have to have sort of traditional increases in relative values the more upgrade you do because you've got to pay for new capital.
Even though there's not very much variable cost there you have to pay for the new capital to put in each new step in the upgrade process.
And the functionality of UAN as Bert was talking about earlier is greater than urea or AN or whatnot.
So each step in the process has to return appropriate capital and also farmer gets more utility out of UAN so they pay a premium for it.
So we don't see that there being a radical change in terms of the underlying margin or pricing structure between products.
And in fact over the long term we don't see a radical change in terms of where we expect product pricing to trend.
Yes.
Specific though Chris for the cost curve we've looked at the urea cost curve as you know that's the most widely traded globally nitrogen fertilizer there is.
When we look at the cost curve and dial ahead 2018 2019 Chinese anthracite coal production remains the marginal producer.
So from a cost curve perspective although there will be additions in between and subtractions puts and takes at the far right hand side of the cost curve remains Chinese producers and at the far left hand side of the cost curve we believe maintains North American production which is where we sit.
So we don't see any major shift in terms of what the actual supply curve looks like going forward.
Perfect thank you.
And just a quick follow-up now that's been roughly six months since the announcement of the OCI deal can you just give a little comment on regarding your confidence in the ex tax synergy number across both the U.S.
and also European potential? Do you still feel just as comfortable as you did then or have there even been new discoveries for potential opportunities? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Yeah Chris as we continue to do meetings and integration planning with our OCI counterparts we continue to find opportunities and other synergies that were not necessarily previously known.
I wouldn't say that all of those are in the tax front.
In fact most of them are not they're mostly on the operational side but there hasn't been any change in law at this point.
And so our confidence level and projections are based on current law.
So that remains as it was and that's why we say from an effective tax rate we're sort of in the low 20%s where we'll settle out we believe.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
You may begin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
It's Dan Jester on for P.J.
So if I hear Bert correctly we missed some application in the fall the winter buying season was pretty slow and there's a risk of maybe an early spring.
In the past that has been a scenario in which the supply chain has gotten pretty stressed.
So can you talk if you're doing anything differently from a logistics standpoint this spring compared to the last couple of springs? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Dan.
I'll let Bert answer that but I wouldn't say it's a risk of an early spring.
I'd say that's nothing but positive news if In fact we start moving product here earlier than normal.
But Bert go ahead.
Sales Distribution and Market Development</span></strong> So we look at a number of scenarios and like any company would be doing scenario planning and looking at our asset capability and meet the customer demand staying in contact with our customers what they think they're going to see.
And so I do believe you will have a stressed system.
That being said we have set up with our barge service provider ample service and what will be coming out of the plant mostly Donaldsonville on barge and utilizing our terminals that are served from the pipeline as well as by barges that being ammonia and we are well positioned for that and then it's UAN.
And so when you look at probably in our early release on barges for ice lock getting up into the upper Midwest to our furthest northern most point in Minneapolis we think we'll be well supplied well positioned.
And as you see the weakening in the oil and the coal markets on rail we're getting a lot better service from our rail providers.
And we have 5 000 to 6 000 railcars in our service as well as extras if needed.
And we're fully utilizing those assets to get product in position.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> The other thing I would add to Bert's comments Dan is that given our broad base of in-market production and all the different major rail lines that we're on plus all of our storage in different locations we are sort of really able to deal with supply chain stress and disruptions on any of the rivers or rail systems I think better than most people because of the diversity of our asset base and our mix.
And so in a lot of cases when those discontinuities or stress points happen it benefits us disproportionately compared to other people.
So we're not afraid of it necessarily.
It oftentimes brings some benefit to us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
Thanks.
And then just quickly on Trinidad gas curtailments have been going on there for several years now.
So is there something that changed your view about the outlook for Trinidad that forced the impairments this quarter? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Yeah I think a couple of things Dan.
As you know most of the Trinidadian base gas contracts are indexed off of the underlying product.
So in our case for our one plant joint venture indexed off of ammonia pricing.
Some of them are off of methanol price; some of them are off of ammonia price and so forth.
And so what's happened is as product pricing has come down that means the gas price into the Point Lisas has stayed has also correspondingly come down.
And it means there's less money going to NGC National Gas Company.
It's in the situation where at the price that's currently being paid for the gas that's below what we believe replacement cost of gas in Trinidad is.
And so one of things that is different today than maybe a year or two ago was we believe that curtailments may have been more temporary in the past and that new production was coming online.
As we sit here today gas price doesn't justify the new investment needed to bring on additional production.
And at the lower product pricing in the marketplace you can't make up for the loss production that we're losing.
So it's that combination of factors that's really led us to take the impairment.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Andrew Wong with RBC.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thank you.
Good morning.
So regarding the share repurchases I mean I know they're on hold because of the OCI Transaction how quickly can you resume repurchases after the transaction is complete? I know there's blackout periods and stuff like that.
So if you can just walk us through some of that thinking? And then what sort of magnitude can we expect for this year? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I would say Andrew we are focused right now on getting through close.
And as part of that process of course we're evaluating and updating our capital position.
We believe as I said earlier that there's a lot of things that are really wind in our sales.
So a combination of the CHS venture commencing and getting that cash in the door and the benefits that we're going to be receiving as a result of bonus depreciation means that we've got a lot of liquidity.
And given where the share price is trading of course we're very anxious to start deploying that.
But we need to get through the close first and then we'll make an appropriate announcement.
It's going to require authorization by the new Board of Directors of the newly constituted company before we're able to do anything but I'm as anxious as anyone to get after it as soon as possible.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then maybe just switching to something else the Chinese nitrogen production.
I know that there's recently been some reports that they have lower operating rates.
Do you have a sense of whether these are more temporary type curtailments or are we talking about more permanent type shutdowns? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> I mean I think our view is there has been a lot of new capacity coming on in China and the excess overhang is capacity that the world doesn't really need but these reduction in operating rates tend to be more offset – permanent offset against some of the new capacity that's come on.
We don't think that it makes sense for that – all of that production to be running where it was.
And so when you see operating rates come back I think it's not because they're producing – going to be producing more it's because some of those plants are going to be permanently shut down and taken kind of off of the capacity curve.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for your questions for today.
I'd like to turn the call back to Dan Aldridge for closing remarks.
That concludes our call today.
I'm available for any follow-on questions.
Thank you for your time and interest everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Have a wonderful day.