Good day and welcome everyone to the Chesapeake Energy 2011 First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our 2011 first quarter financial and operational results conference call.
With me this morning are Aubrey McClendon our Chief Executive Officer; Steve Dixon our Chief Operating Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; and John Kilgallon our Manager of Investor Relations and Research.
I will have prepared remarks by Aubrey and Nick and then we'll go to Q&amp;A.
Aubrey? Good morning.
We hope you had time to review yesterday's 2011 first quarter operational and financial release.
We are off to a very good start to 2011 and I would like to begin my remarks by highlighting three significant achievements in the first 90 days of the year.
First I hope you noticed that we have already reached our 25% debt reduction goal of the 25/25 Plan.
Now we just need to maintain where we are from here on and that is our plan.
Secondly we have efficiently and uniquely built an internal oilfield service company as a way to counter oilfield inflation and enhance the efficiency of our operations.
We believe this enterprise is worth at least $7 billion and we intend to seek a partial monetization of it in 2012.
Third we have established industry-leading leasehold positions in two potentially very significant new liquids-rich plays.
The first of these is the 1.2 million net acres that we have acquired in Utica Shale play of far Western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio.
The second is the 1.1 million net acres that we have acquired in the Mississippian Carbonate play in Northern Oklahoma and Southern Kansas.
We expect to initiate JV efforts in both of those plays in the 2011 second half and to provide more production results from our efforts in both plays as the year progresses.
In the meantime I would remind you that recent liquids-rich JV acreage values have been in the range of $5 000 to $20 000 per net acre.
Using something in the $10 000 per acre range would indicate that these positions could be worth $23 billion to our company combine that with the $7 billion of service company value pickup and you can say that we are highlighting more than $30 billion of potential value creation in this quarter alone.
Given where our stock is valued at preopening today I guess I can say no good deed goes unpunished and also I guess I'm glad that we didn't highlight say $60 billion of possible value creation this quarter.
Our stock might be down even more.
As for our production we had an excellent quarter despite tough winter weather.
It is a testament to the quality of our operations team and to the diversification of our asset base that our production exceeded expectations for the quarter.
Most importantly our liquids production continue to grow rapidly and we remain on track to reach 150 000 net barrels per day by year-end 2012 and 250 000 barrels per day by year-end 2015.
During the 2011 first quarter we averaged 67 000 barrels per day.
Quite an impressive jump from just 32 000 barrels per day 2 years ago in the 2009 first quarter.
Just to remind you we believe there are 13 significant liquids-rich plays currently under development in the U.S.
and we have leading positions in 11 of them a top 5 position in the 12th and have no presence in the  13th which for those of you who are curious would be OXY's California play.
Here are the 12 that we are in: the Granite Wash Cleveland and Tonkawa and Mississippian plays in the end of Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma and in the Texas Panhandle; the Eagle Ford Shale of south Texas; the Niobrara Shale in the Powder river and DJ basins the Avalon Bone Spring Wolfcamp and Wolfberry plays in the Permian Basin the Three Forks/Bakken play at the Williston Basin and the Utica Shale in Ohio.
We believe it is simply unprecedented that we have assembled leading positions in 12 of the 13 most important liquids-rich plays in the U.S.
and very attractive per net acre lease hold cost.
This will lead to very substantial net asset value creation for Chesapeake shareholders for decades to come.
I next would like to highlight the very valuable and substantial vertically integrated service business that Chesapeake has built in the past 2 years.
Taking advantage of the equity-value creation that are on-going demand for oilfield services creates everyday we have decided that in certain service business lines that present significant potential growth chokepoints or offer unusually high profit margins Chesapeake will seek to supply approximately 2/3 of our own demand for such services.
For example today we own the fifth largest drilling contractor in the U.S.
the second largest compressor rental company in the U.S.
and the third-largest oilfield trucking and 2 of the equipment rental business.
In addition we are in the process of building our own hydraulic fracture simulation company which we expect we'll have 250 000 horsepower in the field in the next 18 months.
Ultimately we may seek to build a fleet of around 750 000 horsepower to serve our current 1 million horsepower daily frac-ing needs which surely will grow in the years to come.
In addition to avoiding potential growth chokepoints and capturing high profit margin business lines these service company investments also provide a very significant inflation hedge and value-creation vehicle.
As case in point please consider our 5-year-old investment in Frac Tech which soon will have a cost basis of only $100 million with a value that we estimate could be $1.5 billion by year-end 2011.
Chesapeake's industry-leading drilling and completion activities require a high level of planning and project coordination that we believe is best accomplished through vertical integration and ownership of a significant portion of the oilfield services that we utilize.
This vertical integration approach also creates a multitude of cost savings an alignment of interest operational synergies greater capacity of equipment increased safety and better coordinated logistics.
In addition our controllable large portion of the oilfield service equipment we utilize provides unique advantages in accelerating the timing of leasehold development and therefore accelerates the creation of present value from our vast inventory of undeveloped properties.
Based on projected levels of unconsolidated EBITDA from our oilfield service assets of approximately $1 billion in 2011 and $1.4 billion in 2012 we believe the combined value of our oilfield service assets including the $1.5 billion potential value of our 30% investment in Frac Tech is worth more than $7 billion.
We're in the process of beginning to evaluate various alternatives to partially monetize our oilfield service assets and expect to achieve a very good result in 2012.
I'll now turn the call over to Nick.
Thanks Aubrey.
As you noted the first quarter was truly remarkable for Chesapeake and we're extremely proud of our first quarter results and our progress thus far in our 25/25 Plan.
A few headlights I'd like to point out on our operational and financial results for the quarter.
Net income came in at $518 million or $0.75 per fully diluted share and operating cash flow is $1.4 billion on production of approximately 3.1 Bcfe per day.
Of course on the last day of the quarter we closed the sale of our Fayetteville sale assets to BHP Billiton for about $4.65 billion in final proceeds which represented just over $400 million cubic feet a day or approximately 13% of our average daily production in the quarter.
I'd like to point out that given our fairly high exit rate for the quarter we are approximately back to where we were at our exit rate for year-end 2010 with our current production levels.
That means that we effectively replaced the entire amount of Fayetteville production in our growth during the first quarter of this year.
To that end we continue to invest aggressively in our existing portfolio of assets and spent $1.7 billion on drilling and completion costs for an F&amp;D of $1.25 per mcfe having added approximately 1.3 Bcfe of reserves.
Given we estimate we will spend about half of our CapEx on liquids properties this year.
I'll also point out that 1 Bcfe is equivalent to $217 million barrels of oil equivalent.
On the cost side of the equation we continue to have very favorable lifting costs and F&amp;D costs in a very challenging services environment.
OE was down $0.05 per mcfe last quarter but has guided to stay at approximately $0.90 per mcfe going forward pro forma for the Fayetteville.
Many of you have already noted in your comments yesterday evening and this morning that drilling and completion CapEx guidance is up approximately 10% for 2011 and 2% to 3% for 2012 versus our last set of guidance.
This is driven by a combination of factors that is primarily related to oilfield service cost inflation and slightly higher costs of finding oil.
The primary cost line that has increased this completion cost and I would like to note that due to the Frac Tech restructuring we will have an economic gain on our investment there more than offsetting the increase in CapEx.
This is the direct reason we're very happy to have a $7 billion service organization at our disposal providing both a financial and operational hedge on rising services costs and the availability of a crucial equipment and services.
Shifting to the transaction front we announced the results of a very successful tender of our senior notes and convertible bonds yesterday with the proceeds of our Fayetteville transaction.
When the tenders close we will have purchased approximately 1.3 billion of straight senior notes and 700 million of convertible bonds for a total of $2 billion in debt retirement.
Importantly underlining the converts that were retired we're about 10 million shares of Chesapeake's common stock.
Again tying the operational success in here we were able to sell 13% of our production use the proceeds to permanently retire 17% of our outstanding debt and we'll able to continue growing our production sequentially -- or likely continue to grow our production sequentially and reach our 25% 2-year production growth goal by the end of 2012.
As you all update your balance sheets and your models I'd like to point out that at the end of the quarter our carries from JV partners are approximately $3.5 billion due to us over the next 2 to 3 years.
This now includes the carry with our Niobrara JV with CNOOC and we expect we'll grow this year with JVs in the Utica and Mississippian plays at a $1.25 F&amp;D cost that equates to 2.76 Bcfe of proved reserves we will add to our balance sheet over this period solely with the funds collected from these carries that represent full collection of our purchase price from these sales of working interest in our plays.
On the hedging front we remained nearly fully hedged for gas in 2011 and have hedged approximately 35% of our first half 2012 gas production.
We did lift approximately $768 million of hedges during the quarter primarily related to needing to adjust our hedge book for our Fayetteville sale.
The proceeds from these lifted hedges will show up through the remainder of this year and into next year in the quarters of their respective hedge as realized gain.
Lastly we have completed and expect to shortly close our ninth VPP for approximately $845 million on 180 Bcfe of reserves or $4.69 per Mcfe.
The reserves in the package are approximately 80% gas 20% liquids and this brings our total VPP sales over the course of 9 transactions to 1.2 Tcfe at a total sales value of $5.5 billion for an average per mcfe sales price of approximately $4.60.
With that operator we'd like to open up the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Real quickly looking at the VPP recently some other folks have entered into royalty trust instead of VPPs and I was curious maybe you could comment a little bit about how rating agencies treat the well how they treated this debt even though it probably it shouldn't be treated as debt and whether there's an advantage to maybe looking at royalty trust and is that something that you'd consider going forward? Dave that is something that we have talked about and will consider.
We don't yet have a real clear picture about how the rating agencies will look at them.
I did spend some time with the rating agencies last week and reviewed our VPP position with them.
They don't all look at VPP's the same.
And so I think that -- a hope that we have is that we can continue to make the case that these are in fact royalty interest sales similar to a royalty trust and we'll see where this all plays out.
But the royalty trusts that have been done are very effective monetization tools and something that we would consider.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I appreciate that.
And then just focusing on your vertical integration strategy for a moment can you talk a little bit about are there people constraints that you're encountering? And as you pursue vertical integration I would guess you're sourcing some of the people from existing service companies that might have more stability with a service company that's internal to an E&amp;P company and just kind of wondering how that's affecting the landscape with service providers outside of those that you've vertically integrated? Dave several good questions there.
In reverse order even though we do provide a lot of our own services if you strip away our internally provided services I still think we are the largest US-based customer for service companies in general so in total.
And so there's still plenty of business Chesapeake business for outside service providers to compete for everyday and they do so.
With regard to the benefits of what we do certainly enhanced coordination of operations is the easiest thing or the most important thing that we can talk about when you get people on location that all work for the same company.
Communication is easier you share the same financial incentives and everything is better and we think safer as well.
With regard to the hiring of people you hit on a very important note.
If a fellow works for a third-party drilling contractor for example he knows that he's likely to be laid off every 2 or 3 years.
No fault of the company that he works for it's just that's the rhythm of the business.
And when a guy comes to work for us he knows that we won't ever lay down our own rigs.
And so we know that just looking for example at the turnover inside of Bronco which was basically an industry average company was somewhere between 150% and 200% per year the turnover at our own drilling company is somewhere around 25% per year.
So dramatically different approach to the business and outcome where you're not in this constant cycle of hiring training firing hiring training firing we're able to keep guys and attract the very best.
So lots of reasons to do it and again to hit on a point Nick made and from several people today that they are upset that we increased our CapEx guidance for the year by $500 million.
But we didn't increase our activity with this kind of mark-to-market  where we think frac costs are going to be but we have an almost perfect offset to that through our investment in Frac Tech.
And I hope people will recognize that we built not only a service company that will create efficiency and lower funding costs but also acts as a unique hedge against the rising oilfield service costs.
Great.
Thanks for the clarification.
And one last thing more of a cleanup item.
Looking at the unproved properties acquisition which I'm assuming is incorporating lease hold or it has in the past running about $880 million give or take is that particularly front-end loaded? In the past you talked about your acreage acquisition cost being about 1/3 of what it was last year.
And if I ran that forward it will be a little bit above that.
So just trying to tie that up.
Sure.
We would expect that to be an attention that some people would pay to during this release.
There is a lot of 2010 spillover we talked about that that we had probably $600 million to $700 million of deals that were signed in 2010 that would spillover into 2011.
The vast majority of that is going to be in the first quarter.
I would also direct you to the line under that which is sale of leasehold during the quarter which was $3.3 billion which is the result of our Fayetteville sale but also our Niobrara sale.
And so for the quarter we are $2.5 billion ahead.
I have said on many occasions whether we spend $2 billion gross or $2.5 billion gross it will remain my goal for the company to end up the year with negative leasehold cost and we're obviously off to a good start there.
And our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Can you talk about your liquids realizations and the drivers of the change in your guidance widening out the differentials as a percent of WTI? And beyond 2012 should we expect that that differential will narrow based on what you know about the mix within your liquids portfolio particularly maybe some comment on the Utica and how that plays a role as well? Sure.
Good question Brian.
During the quarter about 53% of our production was NGL are long term -- I'm sorry 53% was oil rather than NGL 47% was NGL.
Our long-term model is 60% oil 40% NGL.
It's simply a function right now of the Granite Wash's throwing off so much so many volumes of NGLs in our kind of black oil plays if you will the Eagle Ford the Niobrara and  Cleveland Tonkawa and Mississippian for example plus our Permian plays are certainly just in the very beginning of their ramp up.
So we expect that we'll trend up to around 60% oil.
NGLs are running today depends on where you deliver them either Bellevue or at Conway but they're running 47% 48% of WTI so you're kind of $52 or $53 a barrel.
And so that's $9 or so per mcf compared to $4 or so per mcf on natural gas.
So natural gas liquids are highly valued and not as high as oil and that's why we are focused more on finding oil.
We widened our guidance simply because we also took our long-term oil price up to $100 and when we did so we basically didn't increase our realizations very much and this attributed the whole $10 increase to a wider guidance.
There's a second thing at work of course which is you do have take away issues in many of these plays which have led to a greater basis differential against WTI and of course there's also the WTI differential as well.
And there are lots of initiatives underway to correct the basis differentials in the various fields but of course also several recently announced projects that we're engaged in also that will help fix the basis differential from WTI to Brant[ph].
So lots of progress to report over the next couple of years and closing those basis differentials.
In the meantime we are on track to meet all of our liquids production goals and to reach that 60% oil percentage as well.
And what's your expected split in the Utica in terms of oil versus gas versus NGLs? I don't have enough information to project that yet Brian I'm sorry about that.
Okay.
And lastly can you provide a little more color on your Williston position and activities there.
I may be recollecting incorrectly but I believe you've mentioned in the past that you're testing more new concepts as opposed to the Three Forks/Bakken but I think you mentioned the Three Forks/Bakken here.
Can you just give us an update on what you're seeing there? Yes.
We actually haven't started to drill there yet Brian so I can't update you but I can just confirm that we have around 200 000 acres in the play and I think we'll end up in the 250 000 to 300 000 range.
And probably we'll look for a partner during the course of the year but that's all that we have mentioned about the Williston at this point.
Okay.
Are these new concepts or is this the same kind of Bakken/Three Forks that others are pursuing? We just need to limit it to conversation about the Williston if I can at this point.
Our next question comes from David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Couple of question.
Eagle Ford it looked like rigs increased production is that -- am I reading into that or is that a function of bottlenecks in the play or can you talk a little bit about that? I'm not sure David what you're referring to.
LLC</strong> Just looking at the quarter-over-quarter production kind of the Eagle Ford.
I guess bigger picture getting away from that specific detail can you talk away take away right now? Yes.
Sure David you're referring probably to the table on Page 6.
LLC</strong> Yes.
We still have -- and I'll let Steve jump in here too.
But we have lots of logistics issues in the Eagle Ford where we are limited by the amount of oil that we can produce.
And so we have a whole lot of oil shut in and maybe Steve has more.
Yes.
And there is a lot of bottlenecks associated with trucking part of it was also completion prohibitions during the dear hunting season over the winter.
And so we were able to get some oils drilled but a lot didn't get completed until the spring.
So we should have a very good quarter in the second quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
In any particular part as far as your entire acreage? Any region that's more impacted than the others? They're everywhere.
Well in the oil hauling the trucking choke it kind of affects everyone.
We are putting in quite a bit of the liquids pipelines so that will get fixed.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Aubrey in the press release there was a comment there about you could spend $100 billion over the next decade.
Can you talk -- can you give us some more color around that or just kind of what that message was coming from that state? Sure.
It's just growth it's just what we're possible that we'll be able to spend based on what our asset is and what our cash flow will grow to.
So it's a big company and it's going to become a bigger company as we create the value out of these huge liquids positions in 12 of these 13 leading plays.
And we're going to be a leading oil producer in the country in the next few years and that will continue we think for many more years after that.
But David that would be gross.
And our next question comes from Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Say Aubrey just wanting your general thoughts on current M&amp;A activities and prices in areas like the Permian Eagle Ford Powder River and DJ including the Niobrara kind of what you're seeing today versus the start of the year and is it kind of sort of playing out as you thought? Neal are you referring to -- I think you said M&amp;A is that right? Inc.</strong> Yes sir.
I'm just kind of want to...
Honestly we don't play in the M&amp;A market and don't really even look in the M&amp;A market.
We by acreage post sale and then try to sell it at retail through JVs.
So if you're referring to acreage values I think that you can look at the  Anadarko transaction with KNOC in the Eagle Ford and you'll see a $20 000 acre print.
You can see some other deals.
You can look at SandRidge's royalty trust and back into an acreage value there that's probably the same amount.
So we see continued strong interest in participations and what we think is the most profitable place in the world to look for and produce a barrel of oil.
And that's in the U.S.
and so we had these commanding leasehold position that we think are going to continue to increase in value.
So if you're referring to corporate M&amp;A or producing property M&amp;A not in a good position to comment because we simply don't look at that anymore.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And then your comment about the oil services obviously your down in position in a lot of those.
Do you continue to look for a little privates I mean whether it's on the fluid side or some other parts of the completion area that you would think that sort of add to your stable? Well we bought 3 rig companies in the last 6 months or so 2 private companies that were kind of special situations that brought us I think 13 rigs if I recall.
And then we're doing Bronco.
And Bronco just happened to be an opportunity that we thought we should take advantage of.
Everything else we've done really through organic growth that's how we're building our own pressure pumping operation.
That's how we're building all of our other service lines.
So again on occasion on the service side I guess we might look at existing small private companies primarily in the Oklahoma City area but for the most part it will all be organic growth.
Inc.</strong> And are all the Bronco rigs are those still operating? Did you keep those basically in the same location and you're still operating those as they were kind of when you took that over? Just to reminder you we haven't -- we don't own Bronco.
Yes we are tendering for Bronco and that date tender date I believe is May 23.
So it is business as usual for Bronco.
And afterwards then our goal is to use those rigs for our own benefit as their contracts roll off with the existing E&amp;P companies.
Our next question comes from Gary Stromberg of Barclays Capital.
You have some comments in your other report on the benefits of achieving an investment grade rating? And then Aubrey in your comments you talked about having already achieved your 25% debt reduction goal and your plan is to maintain that level of debt reduction.
You have more monetizations obviously in the works here with the JVs and oil service potentially next year.
What do you do with those proceeds? And I guess part 2 is Nick you mentioned you may met with the rating agencies last week.
What did they say about that have to do to get to investment grade? I'll take the first part and go over to Nick.
I want to remind you Gary that we do have other CapEx demand other than E&amp;P.
We have midstream demand we have service company demands and so  our goal is to have our debt stay where it is our go down while of course our asset size will continue to grow up to increase over time.
And we can pull off I don't know what we'll get from an asset monetization on our service company we tend to be pretty conservative than what our expectations are.
But like we did with the Fayetteville sale when we can hit a home run and we'll propose to use that excess to pay down debt.
So that remains our goal.
Of course one of the problems in attacking our debt structure is the premium at which our debt trades today.
So we have to be mindful of shareholder value as well.
And so in this case we took about half of the Fayetteville proceeds and use them to repay long-term debt that trades in the open market.
We took the rest to pay down our revolver.
So going forward this company is going to continue to increase its asset size while its debt level will remain where it is or go down.
And we will continue our steady march towards investment grade.
The more important thing to me than the rating is where the market -- how the market sees where the company is today and its credit statistics.
I don't think we'll ever see eye-to-eye with the rating agencies on VPPs they're quite simply just wrong in their approach to that.
But that doesn't mean that that is they are -- anything other than tremendous economic and financial monetizations on our part.
So the market though sees us as a strong crossover credit.
And I hope in the next year or so that that will continue to trade in the investment-grade territory.
And how long it takes the rating agencies to get there I can't predict.
But I know it will trade there before our rating gets there.
I'll turn it over to Nick now.
Yes.
So the second part of your question was really what the rating agencies have told us we need to do and of course it's not quite that formulaic.
There's many reiterations that they go through on their side and they have reacted well to our 25/25 Plan  progress thus far this year and we'll continue to keep them apprised of what we plan to do in the future but there's no specific target we can give you guys.
I'll just point out again the 25/25 Plan like Aubrey said attacks both sides of what we think is the key equation which is debt to assets and it lowers the numerator and increases the denominator pretty aggressively.
So we're eager to continue to make progress there and have those show up on our results.
We'll go next to John Abbott of Pritchard Capital Partners.
Aubrey I had a question about the breakdown of the segment contribution from the oil services side.
Do you have kind of a rough breakdown between gathering pressure pumping transportation and drilling? I guess just...
No.
We don't break it down.
Just to remind you gathering is not in there.
So that's in our midstream business.
So at this point we prefer to just think about it as one consolidated integrated business rather than break it out by business line.
And we currently account for our Frac Tech investment on the equity method and don't have any of our pressure pumping equipment in the field yet.
So primarily you're talking about rigs and traditional other service equipment.
Okay.
And the pressure pumping that you're constructing is the 100 000 horsepower this year and 200 000 next year I'm not remembering that.
100 000 this year and 150 000 next year for a total of 250 000.
Okay.
Got it.
And just can you -- are you disclosing -- I think you have said in the past your acreage cost in the Utica was about $1 100 $1 200 in acre.
Is that...
No.
I think the last conference I was with I talked to about around $1 500 or so.
So that's more or less in the ballpark.
Okay.
Got it.
And the Mississippian or the Bakken or the Williston are you disclosing that or? I don't think that we have -- but Mississippian would be well less than that.
And a lot of our acreage there is legacy leasehold that have essentially today no cost basis.
So when you get a little further down the road we'll be happy to talk more about our cost basis there.
But the Utica acreage is by far more expensive than the Mississippian acreage.
Okay.
Got it.
Great.
And just one question any update on Susquehanna County and the EPA trying to get involved.
When do you expect to be...
Sure.
I'll let Steve Dixon address that.
Well we have provided all the data of the incident to the DEP and we expect to be able to get back to work fully hopefully later this week.
We provided both data on chemicals used the release and the failure itself that was in the wellhead where a leak developed on the connection at a flange.
And so we got basically all that data to them late Friday and expect to be able to move forward again later this week.
Might also add that the cessation of our completion operations was voluntary on our side.
We just needed to make sure we had double checked all of the other wellheads but didn't have a repeat of this incident.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Rehan Rashid of FDR.
On your 39 000 well to drill $100 billion of CapEx to spend over time from a people standpoint what functionality is the most acute to address and just in general people adds over time that we need to address? We don't really think about having people bottlenecks because we have been so successful at building our culture here and attracting a particularly young employee base.
We have about 11 000 employees today about 4 000 of which are in Oklahoma City.
Half of those 4 000 are 33 years of age and younger.
So we are certainly building the next generation of leadership in our company and the industry right here.
I think we're receiving about 500 resumes a day.
So we have no problem running out of potential people to hire.
So I don't really think about that as a chokepoint.
We've got the leasehold we've got the partners we have oil prices where we think they're going to be strong for years to come and we think gas prices that -- maybe have another year or so to struggle.
But after that we'll start to pick up as well.
So we think we're really well-positioned to meet a growing industry's needs.
And we think the world needs more clean energy in the form of natural gas and it certainly needs more liquids energy in the form of oil.
One more quick one for next year the CapEx does that include some more level of service cost inflation or how much of it? Yes.
We really had built into next year some things that we weren't sure we're going to take place this year.
So I think we're in pretty good shape with where we are.
But the prediction of CapEx is difficult because it's really two things have affected us lately.
One is the dramatic increase in completion cost which again I think we fully offset by our hedged position in Frac Tech.
The second though is that we have such a huge leasehold inventory base that as the industry ramps up it's drilling we spend a lot more money on non-op participations.
And so you've seen the oil rig count really aggressively move up in the last 90 days.
That has probably caught us even by surprise.
And another portion of that CapEx increase for the year is non-op.
And we really don't focus or spend a lot of time modeling production growth from those incremental non-op rigs but they do have a CapEx increase.
So those are the two main drivers of this year's increase.
And next year we'll see but we think we like where we are there.
And we'll go next to Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets LLC</strong> It's Scott Hanold at RBC.
And a quick question for you on CapEx in terms of spending for your oilfield services some of the stuff you're building internally.
What amount do you look at for 2011 and 2012 and I'm assuming that's not included in your drilling and completion expenditures? I'm sorry what --  did you ask what the amount is Scott? LLC</strong> Yes that's right.
We haven't -- yes we haven't disclosed that because we're -- for various competitive reasons.
We do tell you what our drilling CapEx is likely to be to the best of our abilities.
But at this point we haven't set forth the public specific CapEx budget for service side nor have we done so on midstream.
It is reported though in our I guess in our Qs.
If we want to -- Nick if you want to talk more about that or just wait until the Q comes out and let it speak for itself.
Yes we spent relative charge really in completion of CapEx.
We spend a modest amount of capital on our services business every year and we'll continue to do that.
We are growing it right now the way that I would think about it for you guys as we were at approximately 160 rigs at our peak back in 2008.
We're at approximately at our peak level again now and we're growing and so our need to invest in the services businesses is front and center of our minds again as we get to the point where we're increasing our operated rig counts.
We'll continue to invest there but it's relatively modest compared to what our joint completion CapEx is.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can I ask you in terms of the pressure pumping you all are building is a lot of expenditure yet to be done or is there a certain amount that you obviously have to commit initially to get that process started? Yes.
There are progress payments made along the way and there's -- some has been made and some is yet to come.
So it will be kind of a methodical quarter-by-quarter payment program there as we continue to add crews over time.
We talked about a 2011 and a 2012 delivery of horsepower but of course they don't all show up on one day.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Understood.
One last question.
In terms of your hedging and sort of using these -- selling forward or I guess the written calls on the oil.
It looks like you indicate that you've got 41% of your forecasted production that's covered by these.
But if I'm not mistaken you had indicated that roughly 55% of that production though is NGLs -- or I'm sorry is oil.
So when you kind of look at that balance where do you want to be in terms of how much of your oil do you want to commit to some of these hedges? Well if the price were right and we didn't want to keep some oil open for further increases.
We could hedge 100%.
Natural gas liquids do trade pretty closely to oil.
If you look back where they were a year ago when oil was $30 a barrel less.
And Conway was at 43% and Bellevue was at 53%.
And within 1 percentage point that's where they're both are today even though the price of oil has gone up by 40% in the past year.
So we think you can hedge NGLs pretty effectively through hedging oil.
But we are pretty optimistic about the price of oil going forward and we sold some calls to enhance our ability today to brighten that oil future to buy leasehold that we wouldn't otherwise have been able to afford in some of these oily plays.
And so right now as I look at our overall hedge position versus our entire resource base we've hedged at about 1% of our entire resource base.
In the meantime we've made $7 billion in cash hedging in the past 10 years.
So hopefully we can make that much more in the next 10 years.
LLC</strong> And just to clarify a little bit because maybe I wasn't clear there.
How much of your oil volumes would you be willing to commit to that? Like if I were look at -- right now you're seeing about 41% but if you're just to look at the actual oil volumes itself it's probably somewhere closer to 75%.
Would you be willing to go in excess of that because of those NGL volumes or would you kind of limit it to where the oil volumes would actually be? Scott I think I tried to just answer that by saying that we're certainly willing under certain circumstances go to a 100%.
But on oil it's highly unlikely that we would find ourselves incentivize to do so unless you had a really rapid spike in oil prices from here.
We believe that world oil demand will continue to grow.
World NGL demand will continue to grow.
And we're optimistic about oil prices and so we'll periodically hedge.
But at this point we're not looking to take oil hedges to 100%.
Okay.
Thank you and thanks to everyone else.
And we look forward to further conversation with you and hope you have a good day.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
Again we appreciate everyone's participation today.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our 2011 second quarter earnings and operational's results conference call.
With me this morning are Aubrey McClendon our Chief Executive Officer; Steve Dixon our Chief Operating Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; and John Kilgallon our Director of Investor Relations and Research.
Our prepared remarks by Aubrey and Nick should last about 20 minutes and then we'll launch into Q&amp;A.
Aubrey? Good morning.
We hope you've had time to review yesterday's 2011 second quarter operational and financial release.
The quarter was very successful on a number of fronts and they have set the stage for further successes in the second half of 2011 and throughout 2012.
Because the quarter progressed quite smoothly operationally and financially I will focus my comments on providing an update on 4 of our best liquids plays about which you haven't heard much from us until now.
These 4 would be the Mississippi Lime play in northern Oklahoma and southern Kansas; the Cleveland and Tonkawa tight sand plays in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and last but certainly not least the Utica Shale play in eastern Ohio.
First with regard to the Mississippi Lime horizontal play.
Chesapeake discovered this play in April 2007 with the drilling of the Howell 1-33H well in Woods County Oklahoma.
This was the first modern horizontal Mississippi Lime well drilled in Oklahoma.
The well's cost was approximately $2.7 million and we found approximately 285 000 BOE in this well a very very successful first effort.
However 2007 was also the year in which we discovered the Colony Granite Wash play in western Oklahoma a play that has now seen us drill 126 wells and developed 225 million gross barrels of BOE reserves from those 226 -- 126 wells.
Because we were unsure of the ultimate size of Mississippi Lime play and unsure how predictable the rocks would be we ended up developing our Granite Wash assets more quickly.
However in the past year it has become more clear that we have a major play on our hands in the Mississippi Lime and so we ramped up our leasing and drilling efforts quite significantly.
Today we own 1.1 million net acres in the Mississippi Lime the most in the industry and we are presently using 6 rigs to develop its leasehold.
We anticipate increasing our rig count to 10 by year-end 2011 and anticipate reaching a drilling activity level of 30 to 40 rigs by year-end 2014 or perhaps 2015.
To date we have drilled 56 Mississippi Lime horizontal wells and have found an average of 415 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well and an average finding cost to date of approximately $11 per barrel obviously very very attractive results to date.
We are planning to develop Chesapeake's 1.1 million net acres on 160-acre spacing and therefore believe we can drill up to 6 750 net wells on our leasehold in the years to come.
This could create approximately 2.2 billion barrels of unrisked oil equivalent impact to Chesapeake.
We anticipate pursuing a JV or other monetization event in this play in the first half of 2012.
We are extremely proud of our northern Mid-Continent asset team for discovering this very significant play 4 years ago.
It will be an important contributor to the upward march of our liquids production in the years ahead.
Next I'd like to talk about our Cleveland and Tonkawa play which are also located in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma.
Although they are separate and distinct tight sand formations our results from the Cleveland and Tonkawa plays to date have been close enough to each other that we use one combined pro forma EUR for these 2 plays.
One reason you've not heard too much about these plays is that Chesapeake's 720 000 net acre leasehold position across these plays is so dominant that no other public E&amp;P company has been able to build a meaningful competing interest and talk up the play.
Part of this leasehold dominance is a direct result of Chesapeake's history in the Anadarko Basin.
From 2001 to 2007 Chesapeake built the industry's leading acreage position in the basin lease by lease and acquisition by acquisition as we executed our "let's get long" natural gas business strategy.
During this time we were drilling wells to develop conventional formations from 12 000 to 25 000 feet deep.
Perhaps you noticed last week our press release describing the success of one such deep conventional well the Buffalo Creek 1-17 a Chesapeake Deep Springer well that has now produced more than 60 billion cubic feet of natural gas and is one of the 6 most productive gas wells ever drilled in Oklahoma.
It has now paid out its capital investment more than 37x since we drilled it.
Incidentally Chesapeake now operates 4 of the 6 largest gas wells ever drilled in Oklahoma.
Because of this unmatched leasehold position in the Anadarko Basin Chesapeake possesses unique informational and operational advantages which have enabled us to discover several large new plays in the region.
The Anadarko Basin is today one of the 2 premier liquids-focused basins in the U.S.
with the Permian Basin being the other.
Chesapeake now owns more than 2 million net acres of leasehold in the Anadarko on which we believe about 720 000 should be prospective for the Cleveland and Tonkawa.
To date we have drilled 116 horizontal Cleveland and Tonkawa wells and our gross estimated pro forma reserves are approximately 600 000 BOE per well providing finding and development costs of about $12 per barrel.
These economics are providing us with exceptional returns from our Cleveland and Tonkawa investment.
We now have 16 rigs drilling in these plays and anticipate increasing this rig count to around 25 or 30 in the next few years.
We expect to develop these 2 plays on 160-acre spacing the same as we used to develop the Granite Wash to the south and therefore believe we could drill up to 4 400 net Cleveland and Tonkawa wells on our leasehold and therefore develop about 2.0 billion barrels of unrisked oil equivalent net to Chesapeake.
We're very proud of our Anadarko Basin asset team for discovering the Tonkawa horizontal play in 2008 and also being very early to understand the significance of the Cleveland as well.
These 2 plays will remain primary drivers of Chesapeake's surging lease liquids production in the years ahead.
With regard to the Utica Shale we are happy to report confirmation of market rumors that Chesapeake has made a major new liquids-rich discovery in the Utica Shale of eastern Ohio.
In some respects the play reminds us of the Haynesville Shale in the fact that we worked undercover for more than a year to develop the basic geological and petrophysical model.
We built the largest leasehold position in the play and then drilled the first discovery wells.
This is certainly also the case with the Utica where we started working on the play 1.5 years ago started buying leases shortly thereafter and today quietly and efficiently have built the late -- have built the largest leasehold position in the play.
Importantly we're the only company that has drilled a producing horizontal Utica Shale well in Ohio.
On the other hand economically the Utica looks similar but is likely superior to the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.
The similarity is that we expect the Utica to have 3 phases: a dry gas phase on the eastern side of the play a wet gas phase in the middle and an oil phase on the western side.
Their difference is that we believe the Utica will be economically superior to the Eagle Ford because of the quality of the rock and the location of the asset.
While we are not ready yet for competitive reasons to discuss our production results to date or our reserve estimates for the future I can confirm that we have drilled 9 vertical wells have drilled 6 horizontal wells have drilled and analyzed 3 200 feet of proprietary Utica core and have examined over 2 000 well logs that have penetrated the Utica to date.
As with every other shale play the highest returns go to the companies that have focused their leasehold buying in the core of the play as Chesapeake has done in the past in the Barnett Haynesville and Marcellus and as we are doing again in the Utica.
So what's the Utica going to be worth to our shareholders? Based on what we have seen from our first wells and what we have seen from recent Eagle Ford JVs and other JVs across the industry we believe our 1.25-million net acres in the Utica should be worth $15 billion to $20 billion for Chesapeake shareholders.
That's a big number to be sure but we believe we understand the hydrocarbon potential under our acreage and we also know a fair amount about how to create and extract value from a play such as this.
I might also add that in the Utica as in the Mississippi Lime we have been approached with a number of alternative monetization ideas that we believe will be quite competitive with the standard industry JV process.
We are very excited about this new Utica discovery and believe over time it will be more important to us and the industry than the 4 other major unconventional plays that Chesapeake has discovered over the past 4 years: the Granite Wash the Haynesville Shale the Tonkawa sand and the Mississippi Lime.
We're also very excited about the Utica's very positive implications for the state of Ohio and in fact for the entire U.S.
as the Utica should emerge as a key driver in the future growth of U.S.
energy supplies especially in natural gas liquids.
I would like to complement the efforts of Chesapeake's Appalachian Basin asset team for their discovery of this play and for assembling the remarkable and dominant leasehold position we have acquired in the past year.
I would also like to express my appreciation to Governor John Kasich who was elected Ohio's Governor in November of last year.
Governor Kasich like Governor Corbett in Pennsylvania is a no-nonsense pro-business leader and he has already built a strong team that is supportive of our industry and also supportive of a stable and business-friendly legislative and regulatory environment.
In addition to supporting the industries that supply energy Governor Kasich's administration has consistently demonstrated encouragement for the capital investment job creation and collaboration with industrial energy consumer that can also help expand demand for natural gas.
Finally there is a significantly underutilized workforce in eastern Ohio.
And through our drilling efforts leasing efforts midstream pipeline and processing efforts plus our plan to help build out the nation's badly needed CNG and LNG transportation infrastructure we accept -- expect to assist in a major economic rejuvenation of Ohio.
I might also add that the only public company with an acreage position of any real size in the core of the Utica play is EnerVest in Houston.
EnerVest is a highly regarded MLP whose CEO is John Walker a very good friend of Chesapeake's over the years.
We are 50-50 partners with EnerVest on some of their Utica acreage and on other of their acreage they retain 100%.
We expect to continue working closely with them as we develop the play in the years ahead.
Reflecting the size of our leasehold position and the drilling results we have seen to date we are beginning a very serious ramp-up of Utica drilling activity.
We started with 1 rig 7 months ago are now up to 5 rigs and expect to be at 8 rigs by the end of this year.
And ultimately we are likely to reach around 40 rigs drilling in the Utica by year-end 2014.
One final element in my remarks is that sometimes we are asked to comment on our overall gross operated production from our major plays so I thought I would give you a rundown this morning as follows.
I'll start with the Haynesville.
It was discovered by Chesapeake in 2007.
Current gross operated production is 1.7 Bcf per day.
That's been built 100% organically in just 4 years.
The Chesapeake's Haynesville asset we're a stand-alone company.
It would remarkably be the seventh largest gas producer in the U.S.
by itself.
Barnett.
First Chesapeake production was in 2004.
Current gross operated production is 1.25 Bcf per day.
We remain the second largest producer in the play behind Devon.
Marcellus.
First Chesapeake production was 2008.
Current gross operated production is 730 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day.
We are the top producer in the play.
Granite Wash discovered by Chesapeake in 2007.
Current gross operated production is 420 million cubic feet of gas per day the most by far in the play.
Permian Basin horizontal plays.
First Chesapeake production was 2007.
Our current gross operated production is 100 million per day equivalent.
Eagle Ford Shale.
First Chesapeake production was in 2010.
Our current gross operated production is 20 000 barrels of oil equivalent making us the fourth largest producer in the play to date.
Cleveland and Tonkawa.
The Tonkawa was discovered by Chesapeake in 2008.
Current gross operated production is 25 000 BOE per day making Chesapeake the largest producer in these 2 plays as well.
So that's a total of 4.5 Bcf per day in gross operated production from plays that basically didn't exist 4 years ago.
I hope you'll agree that's a pretty remarkable achievement and a distinctive one as well.
I also hope that you can see from the gross operated production amounts just how quickly we can ramp-up production from new plays.
I expect we will do quite well in accomplishing the same ramp-up in the years ahead from other new plays most notably the Mississippi Lime Cleveland and Tonkawa and Utica.
You might also note from our press release yesterday that if we had not sold our Fayetteville Shale assets the VP #9 (sic) [VPP #9] assets earlier in the year Chesapeake's year-over-year production growth would have been 700 million cubic feet of gas equivalent today which coincidentally happens to be roughly equivalent to the average daily production of Petrohawk Newfield and Pioneer 3 very fine companies with enterprise values averaging about $15 billion per company.
Another way to think about this achievement of 700-million-a-day year-over-year production growth is to consider that in this past year we've developed organically the same amount of production that Concho and SandRidge have on a combined basis.
These are 2 other very fine companies with a combined enterprise value of approximately $20 billion.
This is further evidence of the extraordinary value-creation machine that we have built for the benefit of Chesapeake's investors.
And as important as the really incredible growth that we have achieved we are also quickly migrating to liquids-focused plays which will sharply increase our profit margins and returns on capital in the years ahead.
In closing I'd like to alert you that our much discussed ramp down of drilling activity in the Haynesville and Bossier plays is well underway.
From our high watermark a few months ago of 36 rigs which were needed to HBP our acreage today we are down to 33 rigs.
And of those rigs 9 are drilling their last wells meaning they should be released in the next 30 days or so.
We expect to be down to just 15 Haynesville and Bossier rigs by year-end 2011 and expect to hold that activity constant until natural gas prices improve in the years ahead.
This should be bullish for natural gas in the years ahead.
I'll now town -- turn the call over to Nick.
Thanks Aubrey.
The second quarter was truly a very successful quarter for Chesapeake where we continued on our 25/25 Plan by achieving a high organic production growth rate and completing our $2 billion bond tender.
As Aubrey discussed on the production front we're very excited about our rapidly growing oil and natural gas liquids production.
Liquids production was up 19% quarter-over-quarter and 62% year-over-year.
This quarter 16% of our total production came from oil and natural gas liquids which equated to 28% of our revenue.
We are very quickly becoming leveraged to oil.
In addition our natural gas production continues to grow causing us to increase our 2-year estimated production growth rate to 30%.
Therefore as of today our 25/25 Plan officially becomes the 30/25 Plan.
And it's my hope that before year-end 2012 the plan may be amended once again to accommodate further debt reduction and that it becomes known as the 30/30 Plan.
Net income for the quarter came in at $528 million or $0.76 per fully diluted share beating consensus estimates by 4%.
Operating cash flow was a very strong $1.4 billion (sic) [$1.2 billion].
As you review our detailed release you may note an increase in our LOE per Mcfe.
This was driven by removal of our Fayetteville assets from the portfolio a very low operating cost region.
On the reserve front we announced yesterday evening that we added 2.7 Tcfe of proved reserves in the first half of the year.
Coincidentally that's approximately the same amount of proved reserves we sold in our Fayetteville Shale transaction for $4.65 billion giving another data point to support the value-creation machine we have here at Chesapeake.
Additionally from the value perspective the Fayetteville reserves were 100% gas.
The reserves we replaced them with through the drillbit were 31% liquids and cost us only $1.29 per Mcfe to find and develop.
As a reminder the PV-10 of our proved reserves at the 10-year NYMEX strip on June 30 is $27.4 billion or 70% of our $39-billion enterprise value.
Of course in addition to our proved reserves we hold $4 billion of midstream assets $7 billion of oilfield service assets $3.5 billion of drilling carry and over $2.7 billion of other assets and investments which totals about $44.5 billion.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our plans and closing the net asset value gap for you all where based on the items I've just ticked off investors are getting our 13.2 million undeveloped acres which we estimate hold about 18 billion barrels equivalent of risked unproved resources for less than 0 pretty remarkable opportunity for value.
As part of our revised outlook yesterday evening we have also adjusted our production and CapEx guidance for the remainder of 2011.
The increase in our production is the result of the great success we continue to have with the drillbit and highly prolific nature of our plays in particular the Haynesville and Marcellus for which we increased the estimated ultimate recovery for the Marcellus to 5.75 from 5.25 Bcf per well.
On the CapEx front we are ramping up our Utica drilling based on the very encouraging results that we've seen to date and that Aubrey elaborated on previously.
However oilfield service inflation cannot be ignored as the primary culprit in our increased CapEx guidance.
Unique from others in the industry we are hedged against this inflation and have benefited greatly from our strategy to be vertically integrated into the drilling rental tool trucking and now pressure pumping businesses.
Based on a recent internal analysis we completed on the Eagle Ford we estimate that when we drill a well with our own service company assets our drilling and completion costs are 17% lower than when drilled with third-party providers.
Also we have invested approximately $1.2 billion in our oilfield services assets to date inclusive of our Frac Tech stake and believe they are worth approximately $7 billion today.
Lastly I'd like to highlight updates to our hedge book.
We are 79% hedged on gas production for the second half of '11 and approximately 33% hedged for the first half of '12.
We do believe that there is likely more upside than downside risk to the gas curve over the next 12 to 24 months which is reflected in our current hedge position.
We remain relatively unhedged on oil.
With that operator please open up the line for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first hear from David Heikkinen of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Aubrey as you think about the $15 billion to $20 billion valuation is that before a monetization or after? It's basically just what we think the acreage is worth in a monetization and so in this guidance -- yes 8 8s exactly.
Now over time of course as we convert the leasehold into producing assets it'll be worth a lot more than that.
I'm just saying today based on what we've seen in JVs and what we think we've got here it's not unreasonable to think about an 8 8s valuation of the asset at that level.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And would you classify the wells you've drilled so far as oil wells? Dave we're not going to release anything further about the play than what we've said.
But in time we certainly will.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And the split of what 3 regions you've actually leased in either? [indiscernible] but I mean -- you're a research analyst and other people are as well.
I mean there's public records out there and wells are hard to hide so there's plenty of information out there if people want to go find out about it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And then seeing large companies now start splitting up to unlock value and you all have talked a lot about the sum of parts value how do you think about the benefits of being a larger company as you kind of aggregated the assets? Even splitting up and selling parts how do you keep the whole thing together or do you think about a bigger benefit of splitting up to unlock value? I think that -- couple of things.
First of all we've spent between $1.5 billion and $2 billion acquiring leasehold in the Utica.
If we were a smaller company we wouldn't have be able to take on that risk.
We've put together one of the nation's largest collections of oilfield service assets which are going to give us have given us a hedge against rising service costs that nobody else has.
Our -- the frustration here is that yesterday we have to increase our drilling CapEx by $500 million in 2011 and 2012 but we also couldn't say "Hey we think we made more than that in just the increase in value of our service assets during that same time." So to me the integrated approach makes sense.
Our size and scale enables us discover things that we wouldn't otherwise be able to do.
So Nick may have some comments on -- or some thoughts on that as well.
Hey David.
You commented on the breakups that you see in the industry and that's really counter to the strategy that we've outlined here and that we're trying to pursue.
We would like to pursue partial monetizations of these businesses not dissimilar to what we achieved with our Midstream business so that we can point to the value that we've created in these businesses and also capitalize them separately.
We believe there are different cost of capital for each one of these businesses.
And it's efficient and frankly a little clearer for the Wall Street community if we do it separately.
So we like that model.
We think it gives us an opportunity to recognize value from what we've created.
But vertical integration is core to our strategy and we don't want to give up the control and ability to affect how we use those assets in the field everyday.
And would you think differently about our 2011 2012 CapEx budgets if we're able to show that our service assets are worth $7 billion rather than $1 billion or $1.5 billion as our cost basis? That's our plan to be able to do that and think we will be able to do that and think investors will benefit from investing in a company that is uniquely able to offset almost all if not more than the service company inflation that it faces in the operating environment today.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then that actually segues into the final question I have.
If I just back of the envelope looked at the 30 to 40 rig program 25 rig program in the 3 plays or 4 plays you just outlined.
Do you get multiples of your drilling budget just in those plays potentially? Can you talk about how you overall fund a 2014 plan and what's your total budget would be or the implied budget is from what you just outlined? Sure.
David we've budgeted out through 5 years so out through 2016.
And I also saw your note this morning.
Remember that the CapEx that we talk about here is a net CapEx so there's $2 billion this year of carries in that and about $2 billion next year as well.
And as we move forward in developing these plays we'll have a carry in the Utica.
We'll have a carry in the Mississippi Lime as well.
So when you talk about a 2014 plan being $3 billion net to the Utica at 40 rigs that's true but we don't expect to be paying 100% of that.
So...
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Yes I was trying to get to the 8 8s value as well.
I understand I understand what you did.
And I thought you did a great job on doing that maybe a couple of billion dollars light on the low side but still thought it was a great piece of work.
But we're aware of the capital obligations and that's why we entered into these JVs to help us shoulder the load.
With regard to where we end up I think you've been with us on the road and you know that we are targeting about $10.5 billion to $11 billion of EBITDA in 2015 and cash flow would be right underneath that of course.
And so with those resources which come from both expanding production but also from a much more profitable mix of production as our production becomes more liquids focused we believe we'll have plenty of capital to do everything that we need to do.
And I reiterate that's with keeping our debt where we targeted to be which is right around $10 billion at the end of 2012 and also of course not to be selling any stock during that time as well.
Next we'll hear from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Can you add a bit more color on the reasons beyond the geography of the stronger gas production? How much of that was related to well performance versus using longer laterals reducing drilling days reducing backlogs? Just give us some sense as to the reason in both the Haynesville the Marcellus and it seems like in some of the other plays as well for the strength in gas production.
Well I think it's related to kind of the opposite of what you read in the New York Times these days perhaps which is that as you drill more wells in these plays they get better not worse.
And so -- Steve as I think about our first Marcellus estimate I think we were around 3 Bcf a well.
Yes.
We've steadily stepped it up as have others and so the evidence just became overwhelming to us.
And our core part of the play in northeastern PA and southwestern PA that we're finding at least 5.75 Bcfe.
So production has been overrunning our estimates which were predicated on lower EURs.
Haynesville we started out with 6.5 Bcfe and I think that's where we still are.
Production rates still over time have certainly tended to increase as we learn more about the play.
And I think sometimes people forget -- these are not -- these 200-foot thick shale formations there's a lot to be learned about then once you establish initial production with where's the right 20 feet where's the right 30 feet to drill.
And we were starting to discover that in all of our plays and so were able to more optimally placed wellbores going forward.
If you think about the Barnett -- Steve I think we started at 1.6 Bcf on -- I think.
And today we're up to 3.2 Bcf per well? 3.3.
3.3 3.3 Bcfe.
So anyway just -- this is what's so different about what we do today.
In the old days your first well at play was your best play and every well thereafter seem to get worse.
Today we drill our worst wells first and that's what makes us so -- one of the reasons that we're so optimistic about the Utica.
We have not drilled our best wells here right out of the chute.
We probably drill our worst well.
So that gives us a lot of optimism about what we're likely see down the road.
So specifically unless Steve wants to say something else the out performance is generally across the board but our strongest wells gas wells are in the Marcellus and Haynesville.
And in the Marcellus specifically with the EUR increase that is completely well performance or you -- have you also increased your lateral links? Yes.
I think it's all well performance.
Our lateral links Steve on average in the Marcellus is around what? Oh 5 000.
So -- and then in Haynesville we remain constrained by the boundaries that are 640-acre spacing units.
So those laterals are about 4 500 feet.
Great.
And then switching to the Utica.
I guess looking where the -- looking at where the state has indicated you permitted horizontal wells relative to your map of the play it would appear your permitted horizontals are focused more on the wet gas window or on the border between the wet gas window and the oil window.
Can you add a bit more color on location selection and where you see the best rates of return? Yes I think when you look at the Eagle Ford you see the best rates of return in the wet gas window.
It's got a lot of energy and got a lot of hydrocarbon stuck -- stacked into place.
And so we -- I think you can learn something about our approach to the play by seeing where are laterals are and -- or perhaps seeing where are leases are.
So we like gas and got a lot of gas and so do not focus as much on the dry gas window which also by the way I might add is much deeper.
We've noticed some companies buying in areas where they're going to be drilling wells to 12 000 and 13 000 feet TVD with 5 000-foot laterals.
We're talking 17 000 18 000 feet.
These are going to be at least $10 million wells or maybe $12 million to $15 million wells and that's just simply not as attractive to us as drilling wells TVDs of 7 000 and 9 000 feet say in the wet gas window where you're going to have much more highly valued outputs and much lower cost inputs as well.
Got it.
And I guess -- look comparing the wet gas window to the oil window are there any issues as you start to move west [wet] regarding pressure or gas drive that do make that west gas window -- wet gas window superior to the oil window? We won't be talking about issues other than same issues that you see in every play.
There are boundaries to every play and we have an opinion on those and other companies apparently have different opinions about those.
But we'll just see how it all plays out.
But right now we are interested in pursuing all 3 phases of the play.
But we have tried to focus our acreage right in what we think is the heart of the play core of the play and specifically the wet gas side of it.
Next we'll hear from Jeff Robertson of Barclays Capital.
Aubrey can you talk about any midstream needs in the Utica and the value for Chesapeake Midstream in participating in some of that development? I'll let Nick talk about that.
Sure.
Jeff the midstream needs of course in the Utica will be very large.
There'll be both gathering needs processing needs and further down the stream transportation needs out of the basin.
And the way that our model works is that we develop greenfield assets in our subsidiary which we call Chesapeake Midstream Development which we own 100% of.
And then over time we look to drop those assets down into the MLP Chesapeake Midstream Partners.
So we're very early in the stages of designing and identifying what our buildup program will be in the Utica but you can be assured that Chesapeake Midstream Development will be right in the middle of those plans and attempting to capture a big part of Chesapeake Operating Inc.'s production into its gathering system.
And then secondly on the rig increases that you outlined Aubrey.
Can you talk about how much of that is or would be supplied by redirecting gas rigs you all currently own or do you all need to build new rigs? Or do you have enough with Bronco to meet most of your needs in -- or -- over the next several years? Yes good question Jeff.
We typically set out to be able to meet about 2/3 of our drilling needs by our own fleet.
So today -- Steve we have 115? So we are at 115 and we're drilling with 168 rigs 167 whatever the number is.
So we're probably a little short of the 67% mark.
So over time we'll continue to add rigs as we have in the past and I think we'll probably end up doing those organically.
I think since we bought Bronco the Rowan wet rigs went through much more than what we paid for the Bronco rigs and we think probably organically it's the best way to do that.
So we'll continue to add but I don't think it's anything spectacular.
But we do -- I would move you back to Nick's comment that on a recent analysis of our wells in the Eagle Ford we can drill about 20% cheaper than others in the industry when we integrate our services.
One other thing we haven't talked about this morning but just to alert everybody we will roll out on October 1 the first parts of our initial 250 000-horsepower fracture pressure pumping fleet and so we'll be pumping our first wells in the first couple of weeks of October.
So another way we are addressing oilfield inflation and we'll do that through additional rigs we'll do it through more horsepower.
Remember we need about probably 1 million horsepower a day.
And so that would give us the opportunity to build a pretty significant pressure pumping fleet over time.
Next we'll hear from Scott Wilmoth of Simmons &amp; Company.
A few more details on the Utica leasehold position.
Can you guys disclose your term length? What your cost position is in the play? And are you looking to continue to add acreage? Scott the answers are yes we're continuing to acquire acreage in the field on a -- certainly in our strongholds.
We are -- we're not working too much on the fringes where most other companies have moved into.
I think I said earlier on the call we've spent between $1.5 billion and $2 billion on leasehold to date.
And on length generally we have -- well we a lot of HBP leases.
We went in early and made deals on deep rights with a lot of shallow producers.
Much of the acreage we acquired from EnerVest and Anschutz.
Some people may recall we made a deal with Anschutz last fall that did not meet with popular acclaim but we knew we were getting a lot of the Utica leasehold pretty cheaply in that.
So a lot of that's HBP.
The stuff that we bought off the ground is mainly 5 plus 5 so we feel like we'll have some no trouble getting it all HBP and won't have to be in as big a rush as we were on the Barnett or the Haynesville although we certainly do have more acreage here that we do need to get HBP.
Do you have a split of the HBP versus the 5 by 5? And what's your average royalty percentage across the play? I'm not going to give you the -- that much detail.
But I think if you look around in the field today and go check our leases you might find net revenue interest that for us are between 83% and 85%.
That's kind of the usual which is pretty attractive given they're lower than that in Texas and Louisiana.
Okay.
And then when I think about a potential JV or you mentioned some alternative structure would an alternative structure still have a component that you guys have used in the JV as you look to recover that initial cost basis the acreage? And then -- or how are you thinking about that? Yes I think you need a solution that we choose.
We'll have a upfront cash component to it.
I mean it's part of our strategy.
We find things.
We go acquire the leasehold and then we bring bigger partners in and -- bigger partners today are not just international energy companies but they are sometimes national and international financial companies as well.
So we want to get our money back for shareholders and derisk the play and then accelerate the drilling.
So it needs to have both of those aspects into it for it to be of interest to us.
Okay.
And then on a broader basis you guys mentioned some liquids constraints in certain regions.
Can you specify which basins you're seeing the most constraint? And is that on the infrastructure side the service side and is it focused on oil versus NGL or one or the other? It's not really on the service side.
It's basically just waiting on the pipelines and waiting on trucks.
Again we're not complaining and we're meeting the challenge.
I think -- Steve yesterday we hold our first oil ourselves is that right or this week we did? So we're -- I think we're building 150 oil trucks ourselves to move the oil around and we've got big pipes coming on in the Eagle Ford Shale.
So really across the board there's a shortage of oil-hauling trucks a shortage of drivers a shortage of pipeline but through our Midstream entity and through our relationships with other midstream companies and then to our own service companies we're out there meeting those logistical challenges.
So we're sorry that we have had to move 2 million barrels from 2011 in 2012.
We had hoped that would not be possible but decided now is the time to recognize those constraints and that we're going to work through them and work through them a lot with the solutions that are homemade.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the Haynesville you mentioned rig count going down to 15 over time.
At what time period do you get to that level? And then what's your outlook for the Haynesville production longer term over the next couple of years? As Aubrey said we've got 9 of those rigs on their last well right now.
We will be at 15 by December.
That will have an effect on our production next year.
We're not providing any guidance on that.
Well I mean it's embedded in our production estimates.
I mean the -- whatever impact it has it's simply that we won't grow our gas production there as much us we could have if we kept 35 rigs on it.
So it's embedded in -- you can look at gas production for -- well in fact if you go to Slide 18 in our slide deck that was posted this morning you'll be able to see how our production growth over time and just see that virtually all of it is in oil and natural gas liquids.
And our gas production goes up a couple of hundred Mcf a day over the next year.
Yes.
If -- I think I recall correctly I think you guys gave a chart specific to the Haynesville in the Analyst Day and it looked like '12 was fairly flattish.
Is that probably still the same fair assumption? Yes that's absolutely right maybe even a little bit down over time.
But again I would emphasize Scott that if we're successful with our demand initiatives and you need more gas we can ramp back up pretty quickly.
It's just at this point we can make a lot more money with taking Haynesville rigs from the Haynesville and moving them to the Utica and moving them to the Eagle Ford or Cleveland and Tonkawa any of our other liquids plays.
Next we'll hear from Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Aubrey just couple of questions.
First back to the Utica.
Just -- they did add throughout the infrastructure.
Just wondering about completion services in the area.
Do you already have enough there or will you be continuing to bring more in the region? Like everywhere we've been we've moved in some areas where there's not much infrastructure there and we quickly overwhelm it.
But again we're pretty good on logistics.
And so where we go service companies follow including our own service company.
So we'll -- all delays and all challenges in a play like the Utica we've met before in the Barnett or we've met it in the Haynesville or we've met it in the Utica -- or sorry the Eagle Ford.
So we'll meet them here.
One thing I would say this -- is the location of this play has a number of advantages to it.
There's plenty of water.
The topography is much less challenging than say in West Virginia eastern PA.
We're in a part of Ohio which frankly is ground 0 for what used to be the manufacturing belt of America and unfortunately the last 30 years has been the rust belt.
But we think that our activity can help rejuvenate this area and we're actually quite pleased with the quality of the workforce the size of the workforce.
And we think of course there's great transportation alternatives here and we're pretty close to the Ohio River.
So if we need to barge out tomorrow we can do that.
So there's lots of advantages to doing business in eastern Ohio.
And so if you could have picked -- if I could have picked another place for a play to develop it's pretty much the most ideal place I could think of in America for a big new play to develop.
We're excited about it and recognize that our activity is going to create a lot of logistical challenges but we'll meet them all and create tens of thousands of job while we do it.
Inc.</strong> And then Aubrey in that area will you target or I guess would say would you co-mingle some zones? I mean will you actually be going after some Marcellus as well Utica? And then within the Utica will you be targeting Point Pleasant or just entire Utica? I'll just leave it at this that we're focused on the Utica at this time.
Inc.</strong> And then just last question for you just maybe a general comment not just only on the Utica just overall on the oilfield service costs in general as you see it maybe the remainder of the year kind of your thoughts about that.
We may have different thoughts.
My thoughts are that we hope we've seen the last of them or the worst of them I guess I should say as we and others put a lot of equipment into the field whether it be fracturing or whether it be rigs or trucks.
So the good news about service infrastructure bottleneck it can be solved pretty quickly just call it 24 months or so.
And I think that's the same with the problem we have at Cushing.
A lot of people are concern about a long-term differential between WTI and LLS.
But we think in 24 or 30 months we'll have it we being the industry of which we'll be a participating part of that I think and we'll have that solved.
But Steve are you worried about any big new increases in service costs? No I think their margins are plenty high today and there's a lot of equipment being built lot of the horsepower in place like the Haynesville that can get redirected.
So I don't see any further inflation.
Next we'll hear from Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research.
Inc.</strong> Question on the Utica monetization strategy.
Would you prefer a JV with one of your existing partners maybe a new partner or you're thinking royalty trusts? Can you shed some light on that? Bob I really can't.
I mean we have had repeat customers and we've had new customers and new partners.
So I think for us it's whoever comes in the door with the most attractive offer for the opportunity that we've offered are the guys that we'll worked with.
We worked with Frenchmen we've worked with Norwegians we've worked with Americans we've worked with British we've worked Chinese and we get along with them all quite well.
Certainly it stretched our cultural and language upbringing but it's all part of life a good part of life I think.
So we really don't have a preference.
We -- the process is underway and we look forward to a successful outcome for our shareholders.
Inc.</strong> And so a royalty trust could be on the table? Royalty trusts are attractive and unless Nick wants to offer anything I'll just say we filed one.
And I think probably we'll need to see how that goes and then decide where to go from there.
Nick anything else you want to add? No just that Bob it's a product that requires a significant amount of proved reserves.
So if we were to pursue a royalty trust in the Utica it would be quite a period of time before we have proved reserves.
But -- that would be required there so that's...
It's a good solution to an asset like the Granite Wash or what SandRidge did in the Mississippian where they have a nice combination of proved reserves and also some PUDs.
So we're not -- we don't have PUDs and we don't have PDP yet of any size in the Utica.
Dan Kecskes of Morgan Stanley.
You guys have mentioned in the past that the rating agencies don't fully appreciate some of the things you've been doing like VPPs.
Have you received any recent guidance from them to achieve guiding [ph] metrics by 2012? No we haven't had any direct recent guidance from those guys but we do stay in regular contact with them.
They ask questions about our earnings release much in the same way that you guys do.
In fact I'm sure they're all listening this morning.
And we work with them on any number of questions that they have.
So no revised specific guidance but they're well up to speed on what we're doing.
And clearly we're increasing the credit worthiness of the company really every quarter that goes by as our assets increase.
And our debt has now down to the $10 billion number and it will modulate up and down.
But we remain focused on delivering that value at the end of 2012.
And I hope just as Nick mentioned in his comments that -- we've had to abandon 130 in our 25/25 Plan because our production is overrunning our estimates.
We certainly hope that we can go with the 30-30 plan in 2012 and get our debt down even further.
So that remains management's goal to make sure that your asset target of $10 billion of long-term debt at year-end 2012.
And by that time our proved reserves will be significantly higher than they are today and our EBITDA will be higher.
All of our credit metrics will be quite a bit stronger at year-end 2012 than they are even today.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now hear from Joe Allman of JPMorgan.
Aubrey what was it that made you announce the Utica the discovery in this release? Was it the production results from these 3 producing wells? Yes.
Joe if you just kind of look at the opportunities we have to talk about things primarily it's 4x a year.
And at the last quarterly announcement at the end of April or first part of May we didn't have producing wells and didn't think it was time to talk about it.
We look at the calendar and thinking 3 months from now it's too late.
So we just felt like it was the right time to answer some questions and to comment on some rumors that are out there.
So we'd always like to say more rather than less when we can and this is one of the occasions when we feel like this is a nice first release of information about the play people can digest it.
And then over time we'll be able to be more chatty and of course other companies will as well with their results.
We expect other companies to start drilling wells pretty quickly.
And like the Eagle Ford and Haynesville and plays before it things kind of go hockey stick here pretty soon with the information flow that comes out of the play.
That's helpful.
And so I'm assuming that your apparent excitement about this play is based on these 3 wells not just being clustered together.
So I'm assuming these wells are somewhat spread apart.
So can you just talk about the distance between the furthest wells? Joe I don't want to do your all's job for you.
So I'll just say that you can go look at where our permits are and you'll see that we are trying to spread our drilling activity out.
So we haven't gone out and drilled 3 wells right next to each other to then declare a victory.
We have spread them across several counties.
And remember also that this is not our first shale rodeo and so we now have a pretty good model of when you work up the geological and petrophysical model today.
We know from working in the Barnett the Haynesville the Fayetteville the Marcellus Eagle Ford what's likely to happen but you got to wait till you drill your first wells.
And then when your first wells come in and they impress you then you have quite a bit of confidence about your overall model.
So we try to do a good job of spreading our wells out.
We'll continue to test both the core of the play as well as the edges.
And we have drilled 15 wells so we've got quite a bit of information.
And I don't know if you thought about 3 200 feet of core but -- 3/5 of a mile of rock that we've pulled and these are our wells.
This is proprietary core that we evaluated here at our proprietary rock technology center Reservoir Technology Center rather.
So we're quite confident and about what we know about the play and what's likely to happen from here based on what we've seen in all of the other plays today.
That's helpful.
And then just back to the royalty trust question for the Granite Wash one that you filed.
I'm wondering why you did that.
Was -- is there not a cheaper source of financing available to you? I'll let Nick talk and then I think the way -- the ones that I've seen so far trade pretty attractive to be able to sell assets at basically PV7 including a lot of puds.
So I don't know if that's the right number now.
And Nick talk to us on that.
Yes -- no it's a very attractive form of asset monetization.
Similar to VPP there's a reversion of some tail interest here.
There's some beneficial tax treatment associated with it.
And at the end of the day you get to monetize an asset for -- a very discreet asset.
One of the things we like about VPP's royalty trust is that you're selling wellbores only and you're selling them within a defined depth.
And one thing we've proven as Aubrey talked about earlier today with Cleveland and Tonkawa and we talked about a lot with the washes in the past is that these basins where we have these large acreage positions as we continue to evolve technology we continue to find additional fantastic drilling opportunities.
And so these are very discreet monetization vehicles and they allow us to capture value for projected production at a very low discount rate and frankly beat out what you would get in the A&amp;D market if you were to go sell this asset where you'd have to give up all the upside drilling associated with it and not get a whole lot more value for it.
Yes that's helpful.
And then if I can just lastly.
Aubrey when you think about the various shale plays you're in in terms of environmental risk what are the biggest environmental risks that you -- that concern you? Joe you mean across all of our plays or place? Really across all the plays.
I think some of the ones in the northeast get the most attention but.
Yes I mean they're all well known.
I mean you have obviously a lot of confusion about what we do on the hydraulic fracturing side.
And if you had asked me a couple of years ago would I ever be concerned about something we've done 15 000 times somebody would object to it and I'd have said no way.
But we've got some of those issues particularly in the east not really in the southwest and we're dealing with them I think successfully.
Luckily the claims about hydraulic fracturing are so incredibly over-the-top that all you have to do is kind of bring people out and show them what you do and show them the aftermath.
And then they kind of say "What was I supposed to be really worried about here?" So we deal with that.
Certainly water consumption water disposal are issues but again we continue to pursue solutions where we use less water where we recycle more water.
And again 2 years ago if you had asked me would we ever recycle water I'd ask you why would we ever need to do that.
And today in a place like Pennsylvania we're obviously close to 100% water recycling.
Beyond that maybe Steve can think of a few things but -- air emissions.
We've certainly had to tightened up on the air emissions side of things and we're working with the industry and EPA to make sure that we are following best practices there.
We're part of the something called the STAR Program which is run by EPA which is just targeting fugitive emissions and of course for us that's cash into the air.
And we want to stop fugitive emissions.
So those are the primary things I think and little of hurricane water over South Texas would be a good thing and help the Eagle Ford out right now.
Next we'll hear from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I was hoping you could talk about your Bakken or Williston Basin activities a little bit.
I saw some of your recent permitting which at least on some of the maps I have seen is a little farther than most of the other activities and maybe outside of where -- the Bakken formation itself.
Can you talk about the concept that you're targeting there? Yes sure.
I think Biju we are on the southern side of the Williston Basin.
We probably 10 or 15 years ago had assets in the central part of the basin and drilling for more conventional targets and frankly just missed the Bakken and we regret that of course.
But Williston Basin is a big basin and we -- I think we announced either one quarter -- I guess -- I think it was in the January conference call that we were building a position there.
At the time we had around 100 000 acres.
I think we're up to 320 000 or so now and probably we'll push 400 000.
As you correctly point out we have permitted some wells.
We haven't started to drill them yet.
I think our first well spud's next week Steve? And then I think our second one within a couple of weeks after that and then start to add some rigs after that.
So I'm really not in a position to say much more about what we're targeting other than we -- to be late to a basin like we were late to the Williston you need to have perhaps a different idea than what other folks have.
And so we'll see if we have such an idea and we'll see if it works.
Then hopefully we'll have some results for you when we talk next.
Inc.</strong> So now that you're up over 300 000 does it now rise a scale that depending on success maybe you'll look to bring it in a partner or? Yes I think that's sufficient size Biju.
I think we have 2 other areas that are more urgent for us to get partners in and more important for us to do and that's in the Utica and in the Mississippian.
And so I think if you just kind of look at how we got things scheduled out the Utica will be what we work on through the rest of the year here and then Mississippian in the first part of 2012.
And maybe a year from now or so we'll be working on a Williston solution as well.
Our acreage was acquired at a very attractive price up there.
So we really don't have overwhelming need to derisk it like when we go into the Utica and spend a $1.5 billion to $2 billion.
That's a significant risk for shareholders and we need to derisk that.
In a play like the Williston we just haven't spent that much money yet.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the conference back to our presenters for any additional or closing comments.
Nothing further here.
If you have additional questions please direct them to John or to Jeff and we appreciate your interest in our company.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our conference call this morning.
We understand there are a few other companies overlapping with us and so we'll be short and to the point.
Aubrey Nick and myself are in Boston for an offering that is underway.
Steven Dixon and John Kilgallon are in Oklahoma City.
I'll turn the call over to Aubrey.
Thanks Jeff.
And I'll begin by clarifying that the offering is for Chesapeake royalty trust units not anything else.
All right.
Good morning.
We hope you had time to review yesterday's 2011 third quarter operational and financial release as well as our Utica transactions release.
Before I begin I would like to respectfully request that you access our website at chk.com and pull up our slide show labeled November Presentation.
It's under the Investors button and then you can go to Presentations to find it.
Later in my remarks I'll ask you to look at some slides that I hope you will find useful.
Thanks very much for doing this.
As promised our oil and natural gas liquids production continues on its strong and steady ascent while we are delivering yet again another impressive JV transaction.
If you are keeping track this new JV would make our seventh.
We started with the Haynesville in July of 2008 and in the 3 years since then we have also brought in partners on the Fayetteville Marcellus Barnett Eagle Ford Niobrara and now into 1 phase of the Utica play.
In these 7 JV areas the company initially acquired approximately 5.1 million net leasehold acres at a cost of $11.1 billion.
That's around $2 200 per net acre overall on average.
We then sold 1.5 million of those acres for total consideration of $16.4 billion in cash and carries meaning we recovered 150% of our total leasehold costs in all the plays combined while leaving ourselves with 3.6 million net acres in 7 of the nation's very best plays at a negative leasehold cost of $5.3 billion.
That's about a negative $1 500 per net acre.
I really don't think the magnitude or significance of what we have accomplished by owning 3.6 million net acres at a profit of $1 500 per net acre has been fully appreciated.
It is quite simply unprecedented in our industry.
Said another way the remaining value or stub value if you will of what we have kept in these JVs has an implied value of approximately $40 billion or about $53 per share.
Mind you this is not me saying this.
This is what some of the world's largest and most successful energy companies have said these assets are worth.
We are proud of creating and delivering this remarkable treasure trove of net asset value to our shareholders in just the past 3 years.
I would also remind you that we might still have 3 JV deals left to work on in 2012.
We have about 400 000 net acres in the Williston Basin around 1.4 million net acres in the Mississippi Lime play and on our way to 500 000 net acres in another oil play that we aren't ready to discuss yet until we've drilled a few wells in it.
Next I'd like to focus my comments on our 2 Utica transactions.
As we disclosed to you in July we believed we would complete a Utica JV by year-end 2011 and that we might also bring in a financial partner in addition to or maybe instead of an industry JV partner.
We are happy to report that we have done both.
Our international partner is very large very well-respected very well-known and we will be delighted to reveal the company's name to you once we complete the transaction.
I'd like to emphasize that the deal is very attractive to them and very attractive to us.
It's a complete win-win for both companies.
We recover our leasehold costs in the play to date and keep 90% of our Utica acreage and they now own the second best position in what we believe will be proven up in time as the nation's most profitable play.
We continue to be very pleased with our Utica well results to date but are not releasing any additional well results this quarter because the last time we did it leasehold prices doubled in the field within weeks.
We are still acquiring almost 1 000 net acres per work day so we have no desire to put further pressure on leasehold prices.
We should have the vast majority of our leasing wrapped up by year end and at that time we can become chattier about well results.
However I would note that Rex reported a pretty snappy 9.2 million per day Utica test in Western Pennsylvania last week.
So well results in the play should begin accelerating in the months ahead.
We also continued to successfully drill new wells in the Utica and that the play's become by far the more frenzied new leasehold play in the industry since the Haynesville in 2008.
And as I've stated publicly in the past few months the Utica is the biggest thing to hit Ohio since the plow.
And back in the day that was a very big deal indeed.
I can also tell you that so far in the Utica we have spudded 19 horizontal wells and 7 of those are now producing.
The rest are drilling completing or waiting on completion production or pipelines.
One last thing on the industry JV.
It valued our 570 000 net acres in the JV at $8.5 billion which bodes well for my prediction 3 months ago that we would ultimately see our investment in the Utica valued at $15 billion to $20 billion.
In addition we are very pleased to report our Utica financial transaction led by EIG.
This is a $500 million preferred equity transaction and a subsidiary that holds about 45% of our Utica leasehold.
By the end of the month we expect this will have grown to become a $1.25 billion transaction.
Next I would like to offer some insights into our current and future natural gas and liquids production.
And for this part of the presentation I would ask if you would be kind enough to follow along on our slideshow presentation that I asked you to pull up at the beginning of the call.
Specifically please turn to Slide 17 where we show that during the past 11 years as Chesapeake has increased its gross operated natural gas production from 1.1 Bcf per day to 5.4 Bcf per day and in so doing Chesapeake single-handedly has generated almost half of the entire industry's growth in natural gas production.
Said another way a 2% gas market share company in 2000 which was us grew its production 472% over the past decade while the other 98% of the industry 49x bigger than us and represented by more than 10 000 other companies only grew its collective production 12% during the past decade.
As incredible as that is it's even more incredible how most natural gas market observers fail to understand the impact of these numbers on future supply-demand trends because for the next 5 years Chesapeake is planning to keep its gas production essentially flat.
Please see Slide 18 which shows our projected annual 10% production increases coming almost entirely from liquids production growth from 2012 through 2015.
Said in the simplest way that I can natural gas markets during the past 5 years were basically changed single-handedly by the efforts of  1 company.
And now I'm telling you during the next 5 years it will be very different from now.
And the futures curve is currently pricing natural gas we believe incorrectly because the same company that helped bring you the gas oversupply is now dedicated to increasing its liquids production and its gas production will not increase much from here.
Now for all you gas consumers out there don't worry.
If gas demand picks up as we believe it will from coal switching industrial demand growth and transportation fuel switching and if LNG exports begin in 2015 as we believe they will then Chesapeake will return to growing its gas production to make sure that U.S.
gas markets remain well supplied.
Now back to liquids production for a moment.
I read the most remarkable statement 2 days ago by another company during a conference call on which they proclaimed they had found 900 million barrels net to them in the Eagle Ford.
So far so good.
I have no doubt about the accuracy of that claim.
But incredibly they went on to claim that their 900-million-barrel discovery was the largest oil discovery by any company in the U.S.
during the past 40 years.
Normally I don't pay much attention to competitors' claims but this claim was just too inaccurate to let it pass uncorrected.
In fact the hard working and innovative employees of Chesapeake have found not 1 not 2 not 3 but actually 4 liquids plays that are bigger than the 900 million barrels claimed to be the industry's biggest discovery by any 1 company in the past 40 years.
So what are those 4 plays for Chesapeake? They would be the Eagle Ford where we own 460 000 net acres; the Mississippi Lime play in Northern Oklahoma and Southern Kansas where we own 1.4 million net acres; the Cleveland Tonkawa play in the Anadarko Basin where we own 750 000 net acres; and now the Utica where we own 1.35 million net acres after our JV sale.
Collectively we believe the potential of these plays net to Chesapeake shareholders are over 4.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
And by the way our net leasehold cost in those plays is now only $100 per net acre.
As you consider your investment options I hope you will keep the magnitude of these discoveries in mind and how we have derisked them and reduced our leasehold costs to the lowest in the industry.
We thank you for allowing us to correct the record on this important point.
Even though our gas production will stay largely flat during the next 4 years that doesn't mean the entire company's overall production will remain flat.
In fact our overall production should increase by approximately 50% between 2011 and 2015 with the vast majority of this increase coming from our rapidly increasing liquids production.
Said another way from year-end 2009 through year-end 2015 we believe our liquids production should increase by approximately 225 000 barrels of liquids per day.
We have examined other companies' forecasts as well as industry analytical work and believe this will be the greatest increase in liquids production measured in barrels of liquids per day by any company in the U.S.
And it will likely be among the very best in the world as well.
Please turn to Slides 19 and 20 to see how we are doing so far.
On a percentage increase basis since the beginning of 2010 we are second only to SandRidge who generated much of their increase from acquisitions.
But please be clear we love the Mississippi Lime as much as they do.
On an absolute liquids production increase basis we are second only to EOG but not by much.
And over the next few years we think we might be able to pass that very fine company by but we shall see.
And by the way I hope you saw on Page 21 of our earnings press release and on Slide 27 of our November presentation that we have now rolled out our 2013 production and financial forecasts.
In doing so we have established that in 2013 we plan to average 200 000 barrels of liquids production per day.
I'd like to point out that that used to be our 2013 exit rate goal not our full-year average.
That's a big change and I hope you appreciate its significance.
And for 2015 we have shifted from our year-end exit rate of 250 000 barrels of liquids to an average for the entire year of 250 000 barrels.
Again that's another big shift forward.
And of course all of this growth will be organically delivered from the drill bit just as all of our growth has been for the past 3 years.
This dramatic increase in liquids production in 2012 2013 and on through 2015 will have tremendously positive financial results for our company as revenue profits and returns will increase dramatically on a per-unit-of-production basis.
To remind you we are also still forecasting that in 2015 we will double our EBITDA from 2011 while increasing our overall production by about 50%.
We'll be able to achieve that impressive feat by continuing our best-in-class production growth with a steadily increasing value per unit of production as we -- as our production mix shifts more and more to liquids that are more highly valued than natural gas.
And we will do this of course while delivering a balance sheet with investment grade metrics.
As I turn the call over to Nick I also ask that you take a quick look at Slides 27 and 30 to make sure you are aware of the value of our non-exploration &amp; production assets.
It's about $17 billion these days or about $23 per share.
These are real values for real assets and I hope you appreciate how much value we have created for our shareholders in our ancillary businesses that in our competitors' business are transferred away to third parties.
I'll turn it over to Nick now.
Thanks Aubrey.
It was another good quarter for Chesapeake indeed.
Our production cash flow and proved reserve growth all highlighted the tremendous growth inherent in Chesapeake.
Starting with proved reserves we added 1.2 Tcf equivalent of reserves for the quarter which is the second quarter in a row we've added approximately 1 Tcf equivalent of reserves.
This again appoints to the unique powerful and valuable asset creation machine we've created at Chesapeake.
Additionally when we look at our reserve adds year-to-date we've added 4.2 Tcfe before asset sales and 1.4 Tcfe net of asset sales including the Fayetteville.
This equates to 700 million barrels of oil equivalent and 240 million barrels of oil equivalent respectively.
Which oil equivalency we think would be the more relevant metric in our recent past given our adds are so heavily weighted to oil and liquids.
This again is just the value we've created through proved reserve growth and doesn't include our Services business our investments and our Midstream assets.
On a related note we ended the quarter at $11.8 billion in debt for a debt to proved reserve ratio of $0.67 per Mcfe.
That represents a 10% decrease in this key ratio since December 31 2010 and great evidence of the success of our 30/25 plan which of course we're looking forward to delivering to investors by December of 2012.
Further I'd like to point out that on a pro forma basis for our transactions announced yesterday plus the expected proceeds from our royalty trust offering which all combined we estimate will total over $2.3 billion in cash into the company in the coming weeks our debt to proved reserve ratio would be $0.54 per Mcfe.
Next I'd like to focus a bit on our vertical integration strategy and point you to the new section of our outlook where we've provided guidance for both Chesapeake Midstream Development which is our wholly-owned Midstream company and Chesapeake Oilfield Services which is our wholly-owned oilfield services company known to us as COS.
We've just finished a very successful bond market offering for COS where we sold $650 million of notes to investors at a 6 5/8 coupon and also closed on a $500 million revolving credit facility.
Our goal is to monetize a portion of the equity in COS in 2012 which when you look at our forward EBITDA guidance for the business in 2013 you can easily see should be worth $6 billion to $7 billion in enterprise value.
And that does not include our 30% stake in Frac Tech.
There's a very large growth ramp in COS' projections that's important to that business as well as the parent companies in pressure pumping operations.
Our new pressure pumping subsidiary Performance Technologies frac-ed our first well on Monday of this week with great success.
And we will enjoy significant cash flow savings for Chesapeake and cash flow growth for COS through this business.
To give you some perspective on what this investment in frac equipment can mean for us approximately 40% of the total cost to drill and complete a well in today's unconventional development programs can  come from pressure pumping.
We're extremely proud of the management team we have attracted to Chesapeake and the suite of operations and assets they provide every day as one of the top 5 onshore U.S.
local services providers in the industry with what we believe is one of the best risk-adjusted business models and growth trajectories in the oilfield services industry.
Lastly I'd like to focus a bit on our hedge profile.
As I'm sure you've all noticed we are relatively unhedged at the current moment.
We saw an opportunity to lock in our hedge gains during the quarter and have locked in a gain of $1.48 per Mcf in Q4 of 2011 and $0.39 per Mcf in 2012 at what we think are very attractive long-term prices.
We believe the natural gas pricing environment in Q3 represented a floor and are now exposed to being able to hedge again at higher prices in the future.
As Aubrey noted there are multiple factors on both the supply and demand side of the natural gas equation that can very positively impact the natural gas price in 2012 and we're well-positioned to take advantage of those dynamics.
With that operator we'll open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question on the Utica plans going to 30 rigs.
Can you walk us through the rig split inside the joint venture and outside the joint venture? David we haven't done that but basically we plan for about roughly 75% to 80% of our drilling to be inside of the joint venture area.
I can't be more specific than that because some of it is going to depend on the success we have in the oil phase of the reservoir as well as what gas prices do and what incentives we have to develop the dry gas side of it.
So the vast majority though will be in the middle of the play the wet gas phase.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what role do you expect your joint venture partner to play in the Midstream and marketing side on NGLs or...
They'll have the right to participate alongside us on a pro rata basis for any investments that we make in the Midstream area.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And thinking about additional joint ventures and plans from here forward can you just update us on kind of overall number of joint ventures and areas you're working and your thoughts there? Sure.
Well we've done 7 to date and I mentioned that we had 3 more areas where we had significant-enough leasehold positions and I guess significant-enough leasehold positions in areas where we haven't already accelerated our drilling and would like to have a partner.
And I believe I identified those as the -- potentially the Mississippi Lime the Williston Basin and then also we have a third play where we're accumulating acreage.
It's on the oil side.
In places like the Permian and the Anadarko Basin for the Cleveland Tonkawa and Granite Wash plays we really have already ramped our drilling up.
We don't have a big leasehold cost position that needs to be de-risked.
So those are areas where we wouldn't pursue a JV partner.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe specifically on the oily part of the Utica and what you did in joint venture would you expect to potentially move something forward there? A good question David.
Sorry.
I think on the dry gas phase we want to get a number that's great for our shareholders.
And in this gas price environment that would be tough to do.
So we'll wait until we get a rebound in gas prices.
And as both Nick and I alluded to we think that will start to begin to be visible in the next year or so.
And so we can wait.
A lot of our acreages are already HBP in the Utica.
And then on the oil phase we just need to focus our attention there.
And when we feel like we've got a body of work that justifies going forward with a JV there we will likely pursue something like that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on Chesapeake Oilfield Services.
As we started looking at margins relative to kind of oilfield services peers they looked a little bit lower.
Can you walk us through kind of how you set pricing? Is it lower because it's operated? I mean just relative.
And then an outlook as far as how pricing gets set if that business moves forward.
Sure I'll let Nick address that for you.
Sure.
We set pricing based on what we pay others in each basin and so it's a model that matches what we view as a market price.
And we of course have great clarity into what we pay others because we plan to and typically don't use any more than 2/3 of our own services in any 1 basin.
So we are a significant customer of many other services companies everywhere that we operate.
As far as our margins being a bit weaker than others it probably depends on who you're looking at David.
But we think that with the advent of PTL coming into our business in 2012 you will see the margins within COS increase pretty dramatically.
We also have a new management team who's focused solely on this business and improving the overall margin and return to investors here.
So I'd say you'll see that come up over time.
And remember David to date a lot of our COS revenue comes from drilling and from trucking areas which don't traditionally have the highest margins in the service industry.
We'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly on Chesapeake Utica L.L.C.
Can those shares convert into Chesapeake shares at any time? And noticed that your diluted share count has gone down so I'm guessing the answer is no.
That's correct.
They are not convertible into big Chesapeake shares and in fact they're not even convertible into common of the sub.
That's an important distinction between the EIG deal that we've done with PXP where those preferred shares are convertible into common stock of the sub that owns those Gulf of Mexico assets.
So basically they have the right to convert into basic ownership of the asset.
Here there is no upside participation other than the small override that we granted.
So it's a really important distinction.
And I did see in at least 1 research note some analyst who was saying that we had issued 1.25 billion of preferred shares from Chesapeake.
That is absolutely not true.
We are selling from a subsidiary that -- and those shares have no ability to convert into common of the company or into the sub itself.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that clarification.
So then as we think about this going forward is it ultimately an obligation that you retire in cash? And we just think of it as kind of a 7% interest-bearing security that for all intents and purposes the only other additional stream for it is the 0.5% interest in your ultimate drilling plans or ultimate working interest in the Utica? The latter part of what you said Dave is spot on.
It is perpetual preferred which comes with a 7% dividend rate.
And it does have the -- like you said the royalty very small royalty associated with it.
Should we pay out cash flow from this entity it will go towards retiring this security but it is callable solely at our option when and how we choose to do so.
The preferred can stay outstanding forever and earn a 7% coupon forever should we not choose to call it.
Research Division</strong> So then just looking at it...
So we stay in line with the terms of the preferred.
Research Division</strong> So then just looking at it from a cost-of-funding standpoint at 7% capital with giving up a very very small portion of your ultimate cash flow out of the assets is this a structure that you'd consider using for all of the other areas that you're walking through developments of? I think it's possible Dave.
What we liked about this transaction was there have been a couple of other financial sponsors who have done aggressive deals around unconventional early stage assets in the industry over the past 18 months to 24 months.
And so we saw as we began talking about our Utica play that a number of sponsors came to us with some pretty creative ideas.
They see that there's a pretty good amount of value that the strategic JV partners have been capturing and they have an appetite to try and compete for those projects.
And so we thought that this really did a nice job of solving what we like to solve for which is getting a return of our investment in the leasehold bringing to bear some capital to accelerate the development of the play but very importantly here preserving nearly all of the upside associated with this play for us.
The investor has made a great deal for themselves and they'll make a nice return on their investment here.
And so it's again very much a win-win situation.
But we do think that this is an attractive source of capital relative to the JVs.
And it's competitive with the JVs.
And so I think there's a place for both.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Appreciate that.
Then just one last one.
On the 5 000 acres that you have acquired in a newly deemed oil play can you talk a little bit about how big you think that could be or you're hoping that could be? Just so we have a way of thinking about what that might mean for leasehold spend going forward.
Yes.
Sure Dave.
This is Aubrey.
Let me correct you said 5 000 acres.
Research Division</strong> Sorry 500 000.
Sorry.
We don't have 500 000 in hand.
We're headed that way.
We have multiple hundreds of thousands but that's kind of our goal.
The acreage is really inexpensive.
So it's not part of -- a significant part of our leasehold spend for the quarter or for the year.
And I really don't want to say more than that.
We'll be drilling in this area in the early part of 2012 and we'll see how we go.
But I do confirm that it is a oil- and liquids-based play in the U.S.
We'll go next to Jeff Robertson with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey in the Utica can you talk a little bit about the capital profile over the next several years for the assets that are covered by the joint venture? Jeff if you're referring to what's our projected CapEx per year -- is that what you're looking for? Research Division</strong> Well yes.
I guess you talk about it in the release on the joint ventures that the proceeds and the funding you have in place will cover your development capital along with cash flow for the next several years.
So I'm just curious if you can lay out how you think this part of the asset will evolve in terms of capital spending and activity over the next several years.
And then also I guess secondly to that is in your projections for liquids volumes going out through 2015 are you able to talk yet about how much of that is expected to be from the Utica play? No.
I mean I could but I'm not.
We've still got a reasonably significant risk factor on Utica volumes going forward.
So they do not -- I think they'll have a heavier weight as we go forward.
But you could see clearly that we've been de-risking some plays as we moved along.
As this -- in this release we talk about moving forward from exit rates in 2013 and 2015 2012 for that matter from exit rates to averages for the year.
So clearly we're feeling more comfortable about some plays all across the board.
With regard to the first part of your question remember that although the EIG and unnamed company JV will -- along with cash flow will handle our expenses in this area the CapEx will still get reported that is not subject to the JV.
So remember the EIG deal gives us money today for spending that we will do over the years in the future.
So even though we won't -- even though we are fully funding what we will do in the years ahead we'll still report that CapEx.
And in terms of giving you specific dollar amounts we're just not ready to do that yet.
But we have given you our rig schedule.
And so I think you can basically begin to see how you could make the correlation from rigs to CapEx.
Research Division</strong> And then is it safe to say based on your comments about the risking in your liquids forecast that as the Utica evolves over the next several years the numbers you would have in your current liquids forecast are very heavily risked and therefore they could go up? I think that's something that we can all be hopeful about.
We'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Following up on Jeff's question your Slide 18 highlights that sharp liquids -- sharp oil growth that you're planning beginning in 2012 and we noticed you did narrow your differential for liquids prices in your guidance.
Was the narrowing of the differentials a function of assuming more oil within the mix or just stronger NTLs prices? And can you kind of talk about your outlook or maybe a little bit more color for your outlook for Utica oil growth in light of what appeared to -- from your initial wells to be being a bit more NGLs-rich relative to oil-rich? Yes Brian this is Aubrey.
So 2 things.
We narrowed the differential in 2012 because we believe that in 2012 there will be a solution to the cushing to Gulf Coast differential or call it Brent call it LLS whatever you want to call it.
It's already come in from $28 a barrel at its high to $17 or $18 today.
We believe there will be a physical solution to that emerge this year and we'll be part of it honestly.
And then for 2013 we continue to believe that that narrowing of that oil differential will occur.
But also by the end of 2013 we'll have seen at least 1 maybe 2 pipeline solutions that will take care of the ethane discount that exists at Conway today to Bellevue.
You may be aware that Bellevue ethane prices are almost 3x what they are at Conway in Kansas where a lot of our production does ultimately get priced and/or processed.
So those are the reasons why we are planning for increased or shrinking differentials not really a big shift in our oil versus NGL percentages.
In fact you can look at that slide on I think Slide 18 and see that over time I think our oil portion of our liquids is about 60% and NGL is about 40%.
Research Division</strong> And I guess when you think about drilling in the Utica in the AMI and the JV should we expect similar type NGL -- should we expect the wells to predominantly be more NGLs? Or should we expect rising levels of oil and condensate? Well it depends where we drill.
Obviously to the extent we drill to the eastern side of our acreage it'll be gasier.
And to extent we drill to the western side it'll be oilier.
So at that point I'm not willing to suggest anything other than that given the competitive pressures in the field today from other companies trying to figure the play out.
Research Division</strong> And lastly the language in your CapEx guidance seemed to change to proved well costs from drilling and completion costs previously.
And you now seem to be breaking out well costs on unproved properties separately in your cash flow statement.
Can you add more color on whether we should anticipate additional upstream CapEx going forward beyond the proved well costs in your guidance? Sure.
Brian I'll take that.
No is the short answer.
Over the last quarter we saw a big increase in the spending we've had on wells that are drilling drilling and completed variety of stages but not yet having had a flow test and so therefore not yet proved reserves.
And so in review of our data and reviewing our results with our auditors we felt it was appropriate to spike this out separately.
We've always forecasted our drilling and completion CapEx on a cash basis.
So we think about what we're going to spend drilling wells for a year inclusive of whether or not the well is immediately proved and put into our full-cost pool or not.
Given the delay in some of the basins like the Marcellus that is so significant at times in bringing wells online it has been appropriate to separate this out into its own category.
So no we were -- with our CapEx guidance for next year and there's a lot of things to consider as we roll through the next year.
Remember oilfield services costs have seen a lot of inflation throughout 2011.
We think we're over the hump on that.
A big part of that for us will be the bringing online of our Performance Technologies L.L.C.
which will be pumping our own frac jobs and providing a big cost savings to us.
But there's certainly some things to watch there as we get into 2012.
Also I think -- we've gone out with 2013 now.
We've had our '12 guidance out for a year.
We do try and give you guys as much guidance into this as early as possible.
And so I certainly hope that you all understand that we're looking pretty far into the future at times when we try to give you this guidance and it is our best estimate at the time.
But for now our 2012 CapEx guidance stays where it is.
Research Division</strong> We do appreciate the early look on '13.
And again so it stays where it is inclusive of this separate category.
We'll take our next question from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe staying on that same subject of CapEx and being a little bit more direct with some of the questions that have been asked out there.
You've obviously been picking up some acreage in some plays and have done a very good job of monetizing some of these acquisitions or I'm sure some acreage purchases.
But as you look forward into 2012 2013 I mean in terms of what you're planning to do I mean how big could that leasehold acquisition number be? I mean we've seen your numbers on a quarterly basis get upwards of $1 billion plus.
Is that -- should we think something consistent in '12? Well there's lots of ways to think about it Scott.
First of all our budget this year will be as promised significantly less than last year's.
So our spend has been going down.
And probably next year it will be less as well.
But it's always a curious question to me.
We just announced a deal where we're going to make 10:1 on our money in less than a year.
And I'm a little surprised people don't ask us why we don't spend more on leasehold.
It's clearly a huge area of profit for us and it is unique in the industry.
And it is one of the greatest mysteries of life for me why people wouldn't encourage us to spend more in that area.
The reality is we're not going to and we don't need to.
But I would look at what we're doing this year as having been down about 1/3 from last year.
And next year I would expect it to be down at least another 1/3 and maybe 1/2.
We're just simply I think the industry including us is running out of places where you could go put together big leasehold positions.
And we're not chasing anything in California and we're not chasing the -- for example the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale and some other things that would be pretty pricey to get involved in.
So continue to ramp it down.
I'll note that most of our leasehold spending this quarter was in the Utica in the Anadarko in the Permian and in the Marcellus.
And so those areas continue to be strong continue to attract strong amounts of capital from us.
But going forward we expect that that will diminish over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Aubrey do you believe that's true that the opportunities to pick up acreage are sort of dwindling now that a lot of these plays have been found? I mean that's kind of similar commentary we've heard in the past from you.
But it seems like every year there's another new play that adds a lot of value.
Is it different this time? Well when we said that we've thought that the big plays were over I always said I thought there was one more and that was the Utica.
I knew about that one.
These other little things that we're working on -- ask any company what's left in the Williston?  What's left in the Anadarko? What's left in the Permian? What's left in the Marcellus? What's left in the Utica? There's really just not much out there and that's why we were in a hurry.
When you look back on this 5 years from now 10 years from now companies are going to say "Wow I wish I had negative $1 500 an acre in my cost pool for the great acreage like Chesapeake does " rather than having to pay $5 000 $10 000 $15 000 $20 000 25 000 an acre for it in the future.
So we love what we've been able to accomplish and know that it's created strong value for our shareholders in fact unique value.
And so there's nothing other than to point to the numbers and show what other companies much bigger than ours for example are willing to pay for assets that we own.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
And one last question on this new subsidiary you created with -- in this Utica with this Utica acreage.
With the perpetual preferred what is your preference in terms of would you rather see that thing be outstanding for more of a lengthy period of time? Or do you generally have a preference of sort of a plan to redeem that at some point? It'll probably be redeemed over time.
That would be our plan.
That's the way that we will bring cash out of this entity.
But ultimately that's a decision we'll get to make from a cost of capital and what our alternative places to put capital are.
And so just like our decisions around retiring debt we've gotten to a point where we thought it made sense on our balance sheet to monetize assets and put the proceeds towards retirement of debt as we've come to what we believe is the later stages of the acreage acquisition phenomenon in the U.S.
We'll have an opportunity to do that with this security over time as well.
But again there's -- it's totally up to us from a timing perspective.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it sounds like more in sort of tranches when you have capital to do so.
Is that correct? It's a decision we'll make as we evaluate our free cash flow over time.
But it's -- I mean the best way to think about it is it's a financial decision that we're free to make based on what our relative opportunities are.
We'll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Nick can you give -- so what's your total CapEx budget for '12? You have the 6th -- whatever that range is on the E and D [ph] side.
And then should we be adding in that additional service in -- or how should we think about your total CapEx budget for '12? Remember this our Services business now has its own balance sheet.
We've raised a significant amount of bonds for it and we have a $500 million undrawn revolving credit facility that closed yesterday for that business.
And we do plan to monetize equity in that business next year.
So I would not include Services CapEx.
We think that business is pretty well funded in and of itself.
The Midstream CapEx you can see from the guidance we've provided does have what would be a funding gap if you will.
The EBITDA doesn't typically grow to a big size within that entity because once an asset does generate sizable EBITDA there we generally like to sell it to CHKM through a drop-down which brings asset sale proceeds to offset our spending.
And so there's some additional capital that will be funded by the parent company there.
And then the only other thing we guide to as you know David is just our drilling and completion capital which is in our guidance this year for '12 and for '13 as well.
So that's how we think about our CapEx.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how do you guys think about -- all the questions out there this morning there are twofold.
I'm just going to throw them out there and let you guys address them.
One Aubrey the people are saying this is an LOI and therefore there's a lot more wiggle room and blah blah blah.
Can you address that? And then second what do you guys think -- if you look at again the funding gap type number what do you think that is for 2013? Okay 2 things.
First of all the LOI is an LOI.
You're right about that.
But I would look at our track record and say how many times have we failed to convert an LOI into a closed deal? I'll tell you the answer to that which is 0.
And so I mean would people prefer that we have not done a deal at $15 000 and not have an LOI? I mean it's a little crazy that somehow we would be better off to not have an LOI at $15 000 an acre.
So we'll -- we'll do what we always do which is we get our deals done and we bring them to the finish line.
And we'll do it here.
We've always done it in the past.
With regard to whatever funding gap I mean it's just a real easy answer.
We will come up with all the cash that we need to run our business and to improve our balance sheet and hit our year-end 2012 target like we've always said we will.
And it's not that hard and there's lots of ways to do it.
And it's a little bit to me like asking an investor who has no current salary but he makes $1 million a year from capital gains on his stocks asking him how he's going to fund his gap because he's got no salary.
Well he makes $1 million a year when he sells assets.
And we create a lot of value along with our operating cash flow.
We have a large -- the company has the equivalent of a large salary from its operating cash flow and we supplement that with capital gains from assets.
And at the same time we still are able to add 1.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent and proved reserves or 4 Tcf a year while still meeting all of our obligations and reducing our debt.
So I mean I can't say it anymore simply than that.
We've said we're going to do by year-end 2012 and we'll do it.
And you can look at our debt at 9/30 yes it's up sure.
We spend a lot of money on the Utica leasehold but we turned around and sold part of it for a 10:1 profit that will close by the end of the quarter.
So our 12/31 balance sheet will look a lot different from our 9/30 balance sheet.
We'll take our next question from Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I know you've touched on this a bit but any more color you can provide on kind of how we're looking at this $2.3 billion in proceeds around year end and how that can address debt reduction in absolute format would be appreciated.
And any specific color you can kind of provide other than what's been mentioned so far? Well Tim it's pretty again straightforward.
The cash will come in and it'll be applied against our revolving line of credit and our debt will go down at the end of the quarter.
So we won't be buying any bonds in the quarter but our debts will float up and down and it just floated up last quarter because of the -- we didn't close a big deal in the third quarter plus we spent some money on leasehold.
The fourth quarter will be the reverse of that.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey a couple of questions.
Just looking at your early completions in the Utica it looks like you're using a much bigger frac [indiscernible] more sand and more water than [Technical Difficulty] I was asking about looking at some of the early completions in the Utica it looks like you are using a lot more sand and water than you typically in some of the other plays.
And I was just wondering does the reservoir need that? Or are you experimenting? And when you talk about the $5 million to $6 million well cost in development phase does that anticipate you getting to a more normalized frac job if you will? Yes I think that's a good way to think about it.
And I think that's normalized on a lot of things.
We won't be taking cores we won't be doing a lot of other experimentation.
So we're still tweaking our frac job.
It's still a new play.
And we'll be trying lots of different things in the future.
So some jobs will use more sand some jobs less some jobs more liquids some jobs less.
So we're still tweaking.
But certainly like what we've seen to date and look forward like we do in all plays to get into kind of the manufacturing phase of it which will be in full speed in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not a reflection that that's what the reservoir requires.
No I wouldn't look at it that way at all.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the Niobrara the planned acreage sale there can you tell us how the JV -- the drilling carries there is going to work? Do those carries get reduced by the acreage that you sell? No the carries do not get attached to specific acreage.
They are just a corporate obligation on behalf of our partner and of course a corporate asset on our account.
So if we sold all the acreage in a play I guess we'd obviously have to talk about how to deal with it then.
But in the Niobrara we do have a lot of acreage and some of it we're just simply not going to get to.
And some of it is in other companies' strongholds and a relatively weak position from our perspective so we're doing some trimming on the northern side of some of our leasehold there.
The carry will get still spent or still earned I guess is the way to think about it on our side as we drill wells more in our core areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then lastly I noticed that you've been recently somewhat active in the Woodbine.
First of call can you say how that compares to your Eagle Ford position? And then second is that an area where you can get much larger than what you are today? I don't know.
I don't think anybody knows how large we are there.
But we're not all that large.
I think we drilled 4 wells and like what we've done so far.
But it's an area that's pretty tied up.
And so we'll be able to piece together some other things.
But that's not a multi hundred thousand acre play for us.
And I think it would be difficult for anybody else just because there's a lot of overlapping existing production on it right now.
But we do like what we've seen to date from our wells.
And when I'm talking about the Woodbine I'm talking about the East Texas Woodbine which I presume you're talking about as well.
Or with some companies I guess they're calling it Eaglebine.
We'll take our next question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey couple of questions.
First Aubrey a number of your peers have announced on conference calls about problems with gathering systems and takeaways.
Just wondering your comment as you look at the Utica and some of your other big plays how you feel about that.
Well there's a lot of aspects to our business that are challenging and certainly building infrastructure in new play areas is one of those.
But that's one of the advantages to the Chesapeake business model in that we are vertically integrated all the way from our service operations up to our midstream operations.
So there'll be some delays but we've built those in.
I mean for example in the Eagle Ford we've only lately have had kind of a surge of production there because we were waiting on a lot of infrastructure.
We just I think did a pretty good job of modeling for that.
And you don't see us miss our numbers and then blame unforeseen circumstances.
We plan for those and take it in stride.
And again through our balanced and diversified asset base we can have issues in one area and not affect our overall performance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly just obviously you got the nice price for the Utica.
I just wonder how you view here for the remainder of the year what your thought is on the M&amp;A market not only in the East but just kind of domestically overall.
Well I think our transaction shows that there is still healthy demand by bigger companies for the assets that smaller companies have.
I don't know how else to describe it.
And every time everyone feels like that's over there's an M&amp;A transaction like a Statoil for Brigham or something like that.
And we just -- we've got something that the world wants which is the highest return on assets in the worldwide oil and gas business.
And so until returns in the rest of the world rise to meet those here -- and I don't think they will and I don't think they can because of the basic terms of those deals.
And when you apply the risk factors both political and geological and timing risks to all those I think all roads lead back to the U.S.
And that's why there's not a big oil company in the world that I'm aware of that's not seeking to increase the size of its commitment to North America.
So I think that's a trend that will continue for years and years to come.
We'll go next to Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey I hear what you're saying about the rationale for pursuing leasehold acquisitions even at the cost of higher leverage in the short term.
I was just wondering overall if you view IG ratings as nice to have for a company of your size and scale or as a must-have and what's the urgency there? Well I think we've been on record that it's something that we think is an inevitable outcome of our business strategy.
It's not so much that we have to have it by a certain time.
Obviously we have access to any capital markets we want.
And the company's debt trades is a strong crossover credit I think.
So -- but at the same time we think we have investment grade assets we think we've got investment grade strategy.
I honestly think if people were to allocate part of our debt to our Midstream and our Service businesses I mean on Page 27 or 30 I can't think right now in our slideshow we talk about $17 billion of non-E&amp;P assets.
Think about our Midstream as part of that and our Service assets as part of that.
If we were to be able to allocate 30% or 40% of the capital structure of those companies with debt that is today burdened against our E&amp;P assets you'd see that we have an investment grade balance sheet already on our E&amp;P assets.
So that's why we're eager to get Chesapeake Oilfield Services public and continue to grow our Midstream business so that we can reflect the fact that a lot of the company's leverage that rating agencies put all against our oil and gas reserves are in fact more properly -- should be more properly distributed across the company's asset base.
I'll add to that that again in my comments I pointed out that even without doing that allocation our total debt at the end of the quarter was -- pro forma for the transactions we've been working on this week is $0.54 per Mcfe.
So even without that allocation that's a pretty attractive number and it's really beginning to look like an investment grade metric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I hear you.
And a second unrelated question just on back to the land-grab question.
I was wondering what are you seeing in terms of international shale opportunities potential for an international strategy and timing and scale of what that might look like? We've consistently over the last couple of years said we have no interest in international shale assets or any kind of assets.
And that includes Canada and that includes Mexico.
And nothing's changed.
We are focused on the good old U.S.A.
and that's where we will always remain.
We'll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> As you guys transition from gas when do you think you'll start splitting NGLs and black oil in your financial reportings to help us with our homework? Bob I'm not aware exactly when we'll cross that line.
We need to do it.
I suppose it'll be in 2012.
But Jeff or Nick I don't know if you-all have a different answer to that.
We don't have a different answer to that yet.
But we're looking at it Bob and it'll certain happen at some point.
We generally say we're around 60% oil -- 55% to 60% oil and the rest is natural gas liquids.
So I can save you some homework if you'd like by using those numbers.
We'll take our next question from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of CapEx for 2011 it appears that you didn't change your drilling and completion CapEx from the $6 billion to $6.5 billion.
But year-to-date I think you spend about $5.2 billion.
That implies in the fourth quarter you're going to spend $0.8 billion to $1.3 billion.
So is that reasonable? That's where we are today.
Yes that's where we are today inclusive of the $875 million that's in there for the...
Yes you quote the 5 point -- Our range for the year is $6 billion to $6.5 billion and that range is still relevant.
Research Division</strong> I think in the third quarter you spent about $1.95 billion and in the prior 2 quarters about $1.6 billion $1.7 billion.
So what's going to bring the number down so much in the fourth quarter? Well again the $5.3 billion that you talk about year-to-date includes the $875 million of the work in process.
And so we do think that was a bit of an anomalous quarter we think on a go-forward basis.
And so we had a lot of stuff to do in the third quarter.
And we think just as the normal flow of business ebbs and flows we're still looking at $6 billion to $6.5 billion for the end of the year total.
And Joe that's what's comparable to the number on Page 12 the $4.5 billion number.
So you need to be comparing apples and apples.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- okay.
So you changed the name of that category.
So what's -- again you might have covered this in the beginning but I missed it.
what's the purpose in changing the name of the category from drilling and completion costs which seems to be more comprehensive to proved well costs? Well the purpose of changing the name is just to try and be accurate with the way that we're having to report this now.
I mean it has gotten to be a big number.
We can't and shouldn't continue to put a number that large in our proved reserve cost because it does represent costs associated with assets that are not yet proved.
And so it skews inappropriately our F&amp;D costs if we were to do it and it would skew inappropriately going forward our depletion costs.
And so it needs to be broken out separately.
And we're trying to be clear about how we're spending money.
There's an element of money that we spend every quarter on wells that take a period of time to come online.
And again we've had some very large infrastructure projects in the industry that you read about every day that are being worked on and that are the result of us having spent in this past quarter $875 million on assets that have yet to be proven.
And so it's only appropriate to leave those costs out of our full-cost pool for the moment.
Those costs will flow into our full-cost pool as these assets are -- as these wells are flow-tested and the reserves are proven.
That number will move up into proved drilling and completion costs.
So that $875 million will flow up into that line at some point in the future.
And it's reasonable to think that it'll be within a year or so.
Joe one other way to think about it our reported finding costs on Page 12 were $1.8 per Mcfe.
And even if you were to throw the work-in-process costs into that equation and don't give us any credit for the Tcf associated there our costs are $1.29 per Mcfe.
So again I think the emphasis is misplaced on what we're spending not on what we're finding.
And if you can find reserves at $1.08 or $1.29 our view is we ought to be doing as much of it as we can.
That's how we create value and that's how we're going to continue to do it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me clarify.
So this $6 billion to $6.5 billion are you saying that this is the money you're spending on PUDs drilling PUDs? No.
Not necessarily no.
The money that could be -- those could be -- in fact those are not PUDs.
If they were PUDs they would be in the dollars spent on proved reserves.
So generally we don't often drill -- well I shouldn't say often.
We do of course drill PUDs.
But a significant portion of the wells that we drill are on non-proven locations because we're out trying to hold leasehold in early stages in our plays.
And so these are wells that exist in a probable or possible category on an internal reserve report.
Once they're drilled they become proved developed producing wells and then an offset to them is called the PUD.
And we typically won't come back and drill that PUD if it's already being held by leasehold for some period of time.
Of course there's a 5-year rule on PUDs.
And so generally these are dollars that are being spent on wells that are not yet proven and that have not yet been flow-tested.
This is something that you'll see successful efforts companies have to report on a regular basis.
It's different for us as a full-cost company because generally all of your dollars spent on drilling and completion will be put into your pool assuming that you're going to know whether or not it went to a productive well in the relatively near future.
What we've seen over the last year is that there is a significant delay on a fair amount of our properties where you don't get to make that determination because you don't have the infrastructure in place.
Research Division</strong> But you're changing the way you're doing this with this third quarter release versus what you did before right? Correct.
Because the number became material and we needed to spike it out separately.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just sort of $6 billion to $6.5 billion if to compare that to Schedule B it's apples and oranges right? So really that $6 billion to $6.5 billion you need to add that $800-plus million to what you have in Schedule A now to make it apples-to-apples with Schedule B.
Is that correct? No that's not correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So why is that not correct? I'm sorry.
Yes we'll tell you -- why don't you follow-up with Jeff and John and myself later.
But it's not correct.
The $6 billion to $6.5 billion is our drilling and completion spend for 2011.
Joe we are in Boston and we've got to run and see some investors on this Chesapeake royalty trust deal.
So I'm sorry to ask you to take that offline.
But...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I've just got a couple more.
So just in terms of long-term debt it was up by $1.7 billion from the second quarter to the third quarter.
Was that pretty much all a draw on the revolver? And what is the status of the revolver now? Joe it was all from the revolver and you'll see it kind of reverse itself in the fourth quarter as we bring these deals to fruition and close them to cash.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And just a couple of quick ones.
So when you guys put out that Utica well release with the first 4 wells I think you put out peak rates which my interpretation is from talking to you guys it means not 24-hour rates.
So is that true? And what's the value of that data? And why would you put that out? Joe we think it's important data to put out.
We don't say whether it's 24 hours or 6 hours or 2 hours or whatever.
It's just industry-standard to use peak spot rates and we've done that.
And there's nothing unusual about it.
We've drilled some really good wells and felt like the industry -- our investors rather ought to know about it.
Of course the industry jumped on it and leasehold prices went up pretty dramatically.
So just at this point it doesn't make -- it's not in our best interest our shareholders' best interest to throw more gasoline on the fire.
Other companies obviously are starting to talk about their wells.
Rex did it.
I'm sure Range will have some results before too long.
So again very pleased and of course our partner has had access to all of our drilling results as well.
So obviously their decision was based on results that they've seen on a level of detail that you or anybody else hasn't been able to see.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just a last quick one.
So the fact that you closed out your hedges is that reflective of just a need for cash in the near term? Joe I think we made it pretty clear that we feel like the bottoms are in in the natural gas markets.
We also took advantage of some days when there was worldwide financial chaos.
And oil price is way down and gas price is way down that we didn't think were justified by supply-demand fundamentals.
So we went ahead and cashed out a good bit of them and then will look to the opportunity to put them back on.
We've done this on several occasions in the last 5 years and typically we've been pretty successful at being able to put it back on.
Maybe you noticed we've made $8.1 billion on our hedges since 2006.
So we don't always get it right but we've got a pretty good track record there.
Okay.
I think -- I'm told that that was the last question.
We appreciate your interest.
And again we'll be a little hard to get ahold of today as we're in Boston but we'll do our best to get back to you with any additional questions that you have.
Thanks very much.
Again ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This will conclude today's conference call.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy 2011 Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2011 fourth quarter and full year.
I would like to begin by directing your attention to the slide presentation available on our website that we will refer to in our prepared remarks this morning.
The slides can be accessed at www.chk.com then selecting the Investor tab near the top of the page followed by the Presentations section in the menu bar.
I would next like to introduce the other members of our management team who are with me today on the call: Aubrey McClendon our Chief Executive Officer; Steve Dixon our Chief Operating Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; and John Kilgallon our Director of Investor Relations and Research.
Our prepared comments today will be a bit longer than our typical call as we have added additional detail on our operational performance that will be highlighted by Steven Dixon.
We will then move to Q&amp;A.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Aubrey.
Thank you Jeff and good morning.
We are very pleased with our company's operational and financial performance during 2011.
Here are a few highlights to consider when analyzing our performance for the year.
Turning to Slide #2.
For the full year we increased our production by 26% before asset sales and 15% after asset sales.
Chesapeake remains the largest gas producer in the U.S.
on a gross basis and the second largest on a net basis.
More importantly we moved up to the 11th largest oil producer in the U.S.
during 2011 from the 15th largest in 2010 and from the 21st largest in 2009.
We increased our proved reserves by 26% before asset sales and 10% after asset sales.
And we now have proved reserves of approximately 19 Tcfe or the equivalent of 3.1 billion barrels of proved reserves.
We found through the drillbit a remarkable 5.6 Tcfe of proved reserves at the very low drilling and completion cost of only $1.08 per Mcfe.
Stated on a BOE basis we found almost 1 billion barrels of oil organically.
These results are unmatched in the industry and form the core of our ability to continue creating shareholder net asset value every year of at least $10 billion.
Chesapeake's risk unproved resources are now in excess of 110 Tcfe.
And between our proved reserves and unproved resources we control more oil and natural gas resources in the U.S.
than any other company.
Based on our present market valuation this unproved resource base is quite amazingly available free of cost to our investors.
During 2011 our net long-term debt on an absolute basis declined by 18% and on a relative basis which includes benefit of the growth of our proved reserves base net debt for proved reserves declined by 25%.
Further we believe approximately $1 billion of our total long-term debt should be reasonably allocated through our midstream and oilfield service businesses.
After this allocation our E&amp;P debt is only $0.49 per proved Mcfe which is clearly an investment-grade metric and is in fact lower than at least one of our investment-grade rated peers.
We are focusing on creating per share value for our investors and so we are proud to deliver strong operational and financial performance without incremental equity from the public markets.
During 2011 our fully diluted share count increased by only 0.6% which is solely related to employee stock compensation.
I believe we still remain the only large cap E&amp;P company that distributes restricted stock to virtually all of its employees in our case today nearly 13 000 people.
I believe this practice at least partially accounts for the hardworking creative and motivated organization that we have built.
Speaking of which on Slide #3 I am proud to highlight that recently Chesapeake was named by FORTUNE Magazine as the 18th Best Company to Work For in the U.S.
including the fifth best among companies with more than 10 000 employees.
In addition we were #1 among all companies in the oil and gas business.
This is our fifth consecutive year on this prestigious list and we have moved up from #61 to #18 in those 5 years.
I would also like to mention that our fellow Oklahoma City producer Devon is ranked #28th on the list.
That means that of the more than 400 publicly listed oil and gas producers in the U.S.
only 3 made the top 100 Best Companies to Work For and 2 of those 3 are located right here in Oklahoma City a very noteworthy achievement for our community.
Turning to Slide #4.
During 2011 we sold assets for $8.5 billion reaping pretax economic gains of $5.6 billion from those sales or a profit margin of approximately 65%.
Please note however that because of the conservatism of full cost accounting only $437 million of those gains appeared on our income statement.
On a percentage basis our liquids production increased by 72% in 2011 versus 2010.
This is the second-best track record of oil production growth in the industry on a relative basis.
On an absolute basis our liquids production increased by 36 000 barrels per day also the second-best performance in the industry.
Further impressive liquids production growth lies ahead for Chesapeake.
For 2012 we believe our liquids production will increase by more than 70% or approximately 63 000 barrels per day compared to 2011.
We remain convinced that Chesapeake will become a top 5 producer of liquids in the U.S.
by 2015 with more than 250 000 barrels per day of liquids production.
Moreover on Slide 5 we announced our 25/25 Plan in January 2011 that stated we would reduce our net long-term debt by 25% and increase our production by 25% during 2011 and '12.
I'm pleased to report that during 2011 we achieved 72% of our debt reduction target and 60% of our original production growth target.
With regard to unproved leasehold always a popular topic among observers of our company we invested $3.5 billion during the year and collected $4.4 billion in sales of unproved leasehold resulting in a net cash unproven leasehold inflow of $900 million.
At the beginning of the year I committed that our undeveloped leasehold sales would be at least equal to our undeveloped leasehold acquisitions during 2011.
As you can see I was off by $900 million but off to the good side.
I further commit that in 2012 and 2013 we will also likely generate more cash from undeveloped leasehold sales than we will spend in undeveloped leasehold.
Please keep in mind that these numbers are cash-only and excludes the benefit of drilling carries that we receive when we sell portions of our undeveloped leasehold.
If we included carries in our calculation of the leasehold sales these numbers would obviously look even better.
The final takeaway I think on leasehold investment should be this: Whatever we spend on leasehold acquisitions in a given year we will more than offset it from undeveloped leasehold sales.
How are we able to continue doing this you might ask? It's actually quite simple.
Chesapeake is the best in the industry at finding new unconventional plays acquiring big leasehold positions in the heart of the plays and then selling off a minority interest to a bigger company from elsewhere in the world that cannot do what we do but has access to capital that we do not have.
These are truly symbiotic relationships that benefit both companies and I'm proud to say that Chesapeake was the first to recognize this extraordinary business opportunity back in 2008.
Today we have -- to date we have entered into 7 JVs that have generated $7.1 billion in cash from undeveloped leasehold sales and $9 billion from drilling carries for a total value generated of $16.1 billion.
Our cost basis in the assets sold was only $3.8 billion.
That's an economic profit of $12.3 billion or more than a 3:1 return.
However again due to the conservatism of full cost accounting none of these gains are presented in our income statement.
Turning to Slide 6.
During 2011 we were the first company to establish commercial production from the Utica Shale the first big new shale play since the Eagle Ford was developed -- discovered in 2008.
We're very excited about the Utica our results to date and its future potential.
Steve Dixon will have some new well results for you from the Utica in a few minutes.
To date we have invested approximately $2.2 billion in the play and have sold off roughly 20% of our leasehold for a total cash and carry value of about $2.3 billion.
Said another way we recovered 105% of our cost to date and yet still have 80% of our acreage left.
That's exceptional under any circumstances but especially when you consider that Chesapeake's average holding period in its Utica leases is only about 1 year.
On Slide 7 I wanted to point out that in 2011 we generated gains of $437 million from a drop-down transaction with our midstream affiliate CHKM that trades on the New York Stock Exchange.
Please remember that most of our peer companies unlike CHK failed to capture midstream profits for their shareholders.
We believe this is a very key element as to why Chesapeake's integrated business strategy is a superior business model.
Also during 2011 we formed COS that's Chesapeake Oilfield Services a company that holds our various oilfield service businesses.
Inside of COS we own the nation's fourth largest drilling contractor the nation's largest oilfield trucking company one of the nation's largest oilfield tool rental businesses.
And we are also building under the name of Petroleum (sic) [Performance] Technologies Limited or PTL what will become a top 5 fracture stimulation company.
We now have 2 PTL frac crews in the field.
And by the end of 2012 we will have a total of 8 frac crews active.
And by the end of 2013 we will have a total of 12 crews in the field.
We believe that by having Chesapeake's own in-house frac-ing capability it leads to greater efficiencies and lower costs.
We believe COS will make an excellent candidate for an IPO later this year and it is another example of the benefits of Chesapeake's vertically integrated business strategy.
Also in the service industry with strong support from Temasek and RRJ Capital we helped to recapitalize Frac Tech Services in 2011 which is today the fourth largest fracture stimulation company in the U.S.
We own 30% of this fine company and have a cost-based incentive of only $100 million.
Meaning we have an embedded profit that will likely exceed $1 billion.
Slide #8 shows that our commodity hedging program generated strong gain again this year.
After our gains of $1.6 billion in 2011 we have now generated $8.4 billion of hedging gains in just the past 5 years by far the best track record of hedging success in the industry.
And finally even in the face of sharply lower natural gas prices our 2011 adjusted EBITDA and cash flow increased by 6% and 3% compared to 2010's numbers.
We think this is a pretty extraordinary achievement given what happened to natural gas prices in 2011.
On Slide 9 during the year we also continued our industry-leading effort to increase demand for natural gas.
One such project was to help lead $400 million of investments through multiple transactions in Clean Energy Fuels stock symbol CLNE on the New York Stock Exchange.
Clean Energy is the nation's largest provider of natural gas and to transportation fuel and they have a very strong momentum in building out the infrastructure for America's natural gas super highway.
I can assure you that the move is underway to move the nation's transportation sector increasingly away from imported diesel and gasoline towards domestically produced and much cheaper natural gas.
You might also take note of yesterday's press release in which the 3M Company and Chesapeake agreed to jointly deliver a breakthrough in CNG fuel tank technology that will help lower the cost of natural gas vehicles.
Also for the benefit of our entire industry we have curtailed approximately 15% of our gross operated production or approximately 1 Bcf per day.
Our share of this curtailed gas is about 50%.
This is of course far more than anyone else in the industry has announced and we think it speaks volumes about Chesapeake's financial flexibility and operational strength that we can make this sacrifice and still reach all of our objectives for the year.
On Slide #10 the most important element of our ongoing success is Chesapeake's very high asset quality.
I'm proud to report that Chesapeake now owns the largest or second-largest positions in the following 15 leading U.S.
unconventional plays.
Starting first with gas shale plays: we are #1 in the Haynesville; #1 in the Bossier; #1 in the Marcellus; and #2 in the Barnett.
Moving to liquids-rich plays: we are #1 in the Utica; #2 in the Eagle Ford Shale; #1 in the Cleveland tight sands; #1 in the Tonkawa tight sands; #1 in the core area of the Granite Wash; #1 in the Mississippi Lime; and #1 in the Powder River Basin Niobrara Shale.
And in the Permian Basin we believe our overall acreage position of 1.5 million net acres is tied for the second largest in the basin.
In this largest oil-producing basin in the U.S.
and arguably the hottest basin in the world we have leading positions in the Wolfcamp Avalon Bone Spring and Wolfberry plays.
So even if we were to sell 100% of our Permian Basin assets Chesapeake would still retain a #1 or #2 position in 11 of the nation's best gas and liquids-rich plays.
We're not aware of any other company that can claim more than 2 or 3 of such positions.
Reviewing this extraordinarily high-quality lineup of assets it should be no surprise to you that Chesapeake has single-handedly generated 30% of all the natural gas production growth in the U.S.
during the past 5 years.
It should also help explain how we have increased our liquids production by 170% in the past 2 years and how we intend to increase it by a further 190% in the next 4 years.
As a result we believe Chesapeake will likely turn in the best liquids production growth performance in the U.S.
and one of the best in the world during the next few years.
On Slide 11 we entered 2012 with a strong momentum and sound business strategy to continue making the shift from a 90% natural gas producer in 2009 to a much more balanced producer in the years ahead.
However we acknowledge that this shift away from gas to oil has required us to outspend our cash flow and we also acknowledge this is causing anxiety among some investors and observers of our company.
However with our detailed announcement on February 13 we have now clearly articulated a strong plan of action that should enable us to generate $10 billion to $12 billion of proceeds from asset monetizations this year that when combined with our operating cash flow will easily fund the gap between our operating cash flow and our capital expenditure on our spending for the year.
It will also probably prefund any gap in 2013 as well which will be much smaller by the way than this year's gap as natural gas prices will likely increase as supply growth wanes and demand growth comes on strong.
More importantly Chesapeake's production mix will continue to tilt towards more liquids production and therefore will generate more revenue per unit of production.
By 2014 we are confident the company will reach breakeven between its operating cash flow and capital expenditures even if natural gas prices remain at depressed levels which given the rapidly changing supply and demand fundamentals emerging in real time before us today we think is very unlikely.
However despite the obvious very good place where we are headed with our surging liquids production and despite the obvious very bad place we would be if we'd simply stayed within our cash flow and remain a 90% natural gas producer I still read a surprisingly large amount of analyst commentary that remains singularly and in my opinion unimaginatively focused on how much CapEx we have spent.
Our job as the management stewards of shareholders' capital is to create the highest amount per share of net asset value possible within our overall financial capabilities.
That is why we focus on the outputs of our business while it seems other people seem to obsess over the inputs to our business.
But it is not the inputs that matter at the end of the day it is the outputs.
And our outputs are not only increasing in size but also increasing in value on a per unit of production basis.
And by achieving this quite remarkable and utterly complete transformation of our company in just 3 years we will arrive at a place in 2014 when we are cash flow-positive and to a place in 2015 when our cash flow should be $10 billion to $11 billion and our company will be valued at several multiples higher than our total enterprise value to date.
This will create enormous value for our shareholders in the next few years.
Again if inputs were the only thing that mattered then we would live today within our cash flow and sit here and hope and pray for higher natural gas prices.
But it is indeed outputs that matter and so that's what our focus is on to increase those outputs and total volumes and to increase the per unit value of those assets or outputs rather while at the same time delevering the company by 25% on an absolute basis and close to 40% on a relative basis in just 2 years.
And by the way we will get all this done in an environment of sub $3 natural gas prices.
It's not easy and I read that several analysts this morning are skeptical about our ability to achieve this transformation.
But their skepticism will not be rewarded at the end of the day while indeed our shareholders will be greatly rewarded.
I'll now turn the call over to Nick for his further comments about the company's financial performance.
Thanks Aubrey.
It's been an exciting start to 2012 and we're very pleased about where we're headed.
First to cover our Q4 and full year results I'd like to point to our $2.80 per share in EPS driven by production growth and cost control.
Our LOE for the fourth quarter came in at $0.88 per Mcfe a decrease of $0.02 per Mcfe over Q4 2010.
In addition current year LOE includes approximately $0.11 per Mcfe from the effects of VPPs.
This is evidence of some of the efficiencies we've been able to create within the country's largest drilling program and vertically integrated model.
We do expect this metric to tick up a bit in the future as producing oil and NGLs is more expensive.
However we're quite proud of the base from which we will grow and we'll continue to take advantage of our model to deliver a best-in-class cost structure.
From a balance sheet perspective our production and year-end debt balance show great progress towards our 25/25 Plan.
One quick note I'd like to add to the previous comments on our production growth target moving back to the original 25% level as a result of our curtailment decision is that in our outlook on Schedule A of our earnings release we note a total assumed curtailment of 130 Bcfe during 2012.
If we had chosen to produce the curtailed volumes we would have achieved an additional 13% production growth or 38% -- total of 38% production growth in 2010 a remarkable level for a company of our size.
We will certainly be poised to take advantage of rebounding gas prices when they occur.
It's been our strategy to continue executing on 2 of our primary goals in 2012 increasing oil and liquids production and decreasing our financial leverage.
We made the decision to stay the course on these goals even in the face of low natural gas prices as we feel achieving a balance in our production profile and decreasing leverage are key to growing long-term shareholder value.
As a result as Aubrey mentioned earlier we have been playing to outspend our operating cash flow this year.
We were pleased to provide more transparency on how we plan to do that last week with our announcement regarding significant asset sales and other monetizations we plan to pursue in 2012 and hope that the table at the bottom of our 2012 2013 outlook makes all of our investing activities for the year very clear to you.
This summary of cash inflows and outflows should highlight that we have given ourselves quite a bit of headroom in 2012.
And inclusive of that carryover we'll have quite a bit in 2013 as well.
To clarify a few things you read last night and this morning we have made very little material changes to CapEx and only tried to provide more detail and transparency through the view on what is being spent and what is being monetized.
We of course have been working on these monetizations announced last week for quite sometime and always maintained a good amount of optionality on how we think about funding our business given our asset-heavy business model.
Our diversity of assets which include proved reserves natural gas and oil production large acreage positions and vertically integrated midstream and service company investments provide a variety of assets from which there are many different buyers that find attractive assets within our portfolio.
Great examples of the variety of assets we choose to monetize to buyers seeking different return profiles are: our Colony Granite Wash royalty trust where primarily retail investors receive an income stream tied to the specific production of a certain field; and our Utica wet gas JV where an international major took a significant exposure to a largely undeveloped play in Ohio with tremendous upside exposure.
Further in the outlook on our press release today I'll point out that we have lowered our gas price forecast to more closely match the strip and now project 2012 operating cash flow before changes in working capital to be $4.85 billion at the midpoint of our range.
Please remember that approximately 60% of our revenue in 2012 will come from oil and natural gas liquids at the prices modeled here and we hedged 43% of that production at approximately $102.50 per barrel.
Also please note that our operating cash flow projections are expected to increase by 65% in 2013 versus 2012.
If you look at Slide 15 in this morning's presentation you'll see that even if prices were to remain flat our cash flow will jump by 35%.
That's very exciting growth and really highlights the benefits of our shift to liquids-focused assets and the return we are seeing on our investment in liquids-rich acreage positions for the last several years.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve to give an overview of some of our recent significant operational achievements.
Thanks Nick.
Moving onto Slide 18.
2011 marked another outstanding year for Chesapeake operationally.
I'm very proud of the results in 2011 for our entire team as we continued our best-in-class performance and in reserves and production at very low cost while maintaining our high standard for safety and a keen focus on environmental stewardship.
During 2011 we produced nearly 1.2 Tcfe on a net basis and increased our gross operated production to 6.4 Bcf per day.
We finished the year with 18.8 Tcfe of proved reserves based on SEC pricing and that's after sales of 2.8 Tcfe of proved reserves primarily from our Fayetteville Shale transaction with BHP.
Our operational teams performed exceptionally well during a rising oilfield service cost environment in 2011.
And we delivered 5.6 Tcfe in proved reserve additions due to drillbit at a drilling completion cost of only $1.08 per Mcfe or approximately $6.50 per BOE.
Notably our reserve additions in just that 1 year of 2011 exceeded the total proved reserves of all but just a handful of our competitors many of which have been in operation for more than 20 years.
As an operator we drove a total of 1 680 gross wells and connected more than 1 400 wells or about 1 every 6 hours and substantially all of these were horizontal wells.
This is an unprecedented level of activity a performance the industry has never seen before.
We also participated in another 1 250 wells drilled by others and those operators turned 1 050 wells online during the year.
Slide 19 shows in executing its business Chesapeake enjoys tremendous competitive advantages through the size and scale but also by utilizing the largest data set in the industry that benefits from the most active drilling program in America the largest U.S.
leasehold position and a unique ability to evaluate technical and petrophysical data in our Reservoir Technology Center that has analyzed more feet of shale cores since its opening in April 2007 than the rest of the industry combined.
Our company has developed key abilities in new play identification leasehold acquisition large-scale drilling and completion programs where we have ramped up to 20 30 even 40 rigs in a single play.
Our operations are further enhanced by our vertical integration into oilfield service and midstream operations.
Our goal in the end is to conduct our operations better faster cheaper and safer than our competition so that we can lead the industry at a per share net asset value creation.
As a result Chesapeake has clearly become the partner of choice for many international companies seeking access with the lucrative low-risk U.S.
onshore natural gas and liquids plays.
And we look forward to completing additional partnerships and transactions later this year.
I'd next like to highlight a few operational results in some of our key liquids-rich plays.
On Slide 19 in our Eagle Ford Shale play our total net production averaged over 17 700 BOE per day in 2011's fourth quarter.
That's up 60% versus last quarter and 370% year-over-year.
Our current gross operated production from the play is 45 500 BOE per day and 22 600 BOE per day on a net basis.
Our production mix in this play is approximately 50% crude 20% NGLs and 30% natural gas.
We continue to be very pleased by our performance in the Eagle Ford and it's a driving force behind our liquids production growth targets in the months and years ahead.
To date we have 108 wells that tested with peak oil rates of 500 barrels of oil or more.
And that's not an equivalent basis that's black oil in the tanks.
We are producing 178 wells in the play to date and have a backlog of almost 200 additional wells to be completed and connected in the coming months.
This will fuel our production ramp-up through the end of the year and into '13.
We finished 2011 with 7 frac crews running in the play and will be up to 11 by mid-March of this year and 13 by the end of 2012.
We've also doubled our drilling efficiency in the play since January 2010 based upon drilling feet per day to now approximately 725 feet per day.
And this has driven down our days per [ph] wells and helped reduce costs.
And great progress has been made in building and restructuring the play with the addition of 350 miles of pipeline during the year.
We expect to gain greater transportation capacity as 80 more miles of pipeline and regional rail and loading terminals are put in.
And we also are adding 85 oil hauling trucks from Chesapeake's very own trucking company within Thunder Oilfield Services.
These actions help ensure that our oil moves to markets that give us the highest oil price possible.
I'd next like to focus on the Anadarko Basin where we dominate several very successful liquids-rich plays including well-discussed and prolific Granite Wash plays.
For this call though I'd like to highlight 3 plays that we previously have not highlighted in detail for competitive reasons: the Miss Lime play in Northern Oklahoma and Southern Kansas; and the Cleveland and Tonkawa plays in Western Oklahoma.
In the Miss Lime on Slide 20 our total net production averaged over 10 500 BOE per day in the fourth quarter.
That's up 31% compared to last quarter and up 141% compared to the period last year.
Our current net production is 11 300 BOE per day.
Our production mix in the play is approximately 40% crude oil 15% NGLs and 45% natural gas.
The plays on the Chesapeake is one that Chesapeake discovered with the industry's first horizontal well drilled here in 2007 and today is dominated by Chesapeake and our friends at SandRidge.
We continue to drill prolific wells across the wide area in Alfalfa and Woods Counties in Oklahoma.
We're currently operating 22 rigs in the play and will maintain that level through 2012.
To date we participate in 33 wells that have tested peak oil rates of 500 barrels of oil or more.
We previously announced here our intention to bring in a JV partner in the play and hope to have some -- a successful transaction to share with you later this summer.
Next I'd like to cover the Cleveland and Tonkawa plays on Slide 21 where we also have a dominant acreage position.
Our total net production from these 2 plays averaged nearly 18 000 barrels of oil per day in the 2011 fourth quarter.
That's up 20% compared to the last quarter and up nearly 125% compared to this period last year.
Our production mix in this play is 50% crude 15% NGLs and 35% natural gas.
To date we have participated in 70 wells that tested with peak oil rates of 500 barrels of oil or more.
And we are currently operating 20 rigs between the 2 plays and expect to maintain that level through 2012.
Next is the Permian Basin on Slide 22 which we recently disclosed we are considering a joint venture or an outright sale.
Most recognize that Permian is the most prolific basin in the U.S.
and it garners significant incremental capital from the industry at current oil strip prices.
Our 1.5 million net acre Permian acreage position is focused on key development plays: the Avalon Bone Spring Wolfcamp and Wolfberry.
Fourth quarter net production was approximately 33 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
That's an increase of 23% compared to fourth quarter of last year.
And in 2011 we tested 21 wells with an average peak rate of over 1 000 barrels of oil per day.
We look forward to sharing more information with prospective partners and/or buyers in our upcoming data approval [ph] process.
And finally I'm pleased to highlight our latest large-scale discovery the Utica Shale that's on Slide 23.
This is where we recently welcomed Total to the wet gas window in the play as our JV partner as a follow-on transaction to our mutually successful partnership in the Barnett Shale.
We are continuing to delineate efforts in the play with 6 rigs running in the wet gas window and one each in the oil and dry gas windows.
We will -- plan on ramping up to 20 Utica rigs here by year-end 2012.
To date we've drilled 42 wells in the play with 7 of those on production and 35 waiting on completion or pipeline connection.
Two recent completions included our Burgett and Shaw wells in the Utica which produced at peak 24-hour rates on average of 700 barrels and 3 million per day.
We are already starting to see drilling efficiencies in this play and have our recent best well drilled spud to rig release is only 16 days and that's compared to 2x or 3x of that for our earlier wells.
Through our midstream efforts we've installed 200 miles of pipeline -- will install 200 miles of pipeline in 2012 and our local field office presence continues to grow.
All the major oilfield service providers are establishing a footprint locally as a result of our activity and this is driving significant boost through Eastern Ohio.
Moving onto Slide 24.
We are operating 161 rigs and have accomplished approximately 90% of our planned transition to liquids-rich plays.
We do expect our operated rig count will stay relatively level for the year at an average of approximately 161 rigs for the year.
This is including 33 rigs in the Eagle Ford Shale; 22 in the Miss Lime play; 20 in the Cleveland and Tonkawa plays; 14 in the Utica Shale play; 13 in the Granite Wash plays; and 10 in the Permian Basin.
During the remainder of the first quarter and into the second quarter we will continue to see a drop in natural gas rigs until we get down to 12 rigs in the northeast portion of the Marcellus and down to 6 rigs in the Haynesville.
We are already at our stated goal of 6 rigs in the Barnett.
We expect to spend $7 billion to $7.5 billion on proved and unproved drilling and completion activities in 2012 approximately 85% of which will be directed towards our liquids-rich plays.
Finally I would like to conclude by highlighting 2 important achievements that demonstrate the company's commitment to best practices in the environmental health and safety areas it's on Slide 25.
I'm pleased to report that 2011 was Chesapeake's safest year ever in conducting its operations.
Our 2011 total recordable incident rate was an impressive 0.53.
While our company has continued to grow our OSHA reportable incidents continued to decrease.
Since implementing the SAFE program in 2010 which stands for Stay Accident Free Everyday COI has improved our safety performance by 34% while increasing employee count.
In 2011 we set a new record by working over 1.5 million employee hours without a recordable injury.
This is a very important accomplishment and we are very committed to making 2012 also the safest year in the history of the company.
We also make environmental stewardship a priority.
And in early 2011 Chesapeake furthered its commitment to progressive operational environmental and safety standards by formally adopting a set of operational principles for the company's employees contractors suppliers and vendors to guide its oil and gas exploration and production operations throughout the country.
These guiding principles represent our commitment to our surface owners mineral owners local citizens shareholders government officials and regulators and all stakeholders to make progress in improving our operational performance by working in an environmentally respectful way.
In addition during 2011 Chesapeake joined a nationwide public registry fracfocus.org that discloses the additives in the company's hydraulic fracturing operations.
We currently have more than 1 300 wells posted on fracfocus.org accounting for more than 11% of all the wells posted to date more than any other operator.
In summary Chesapeake has an outstanding year of operation in 2011 and we look forward to providing further strong growth particularly in our liquids-rich plays as the year progresses.
I would now like to turn the call back to the operator and open the call up for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Doug Leggate at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to try a couple if I may.
On the production outlook you've kind of caveated in your commentary that the guidance excludes the potential of several deals over the course of this year.
My question is really about the longer-term the target to get to 250 000 barrels a day of liquids.
Assuming that you do execute some of the transactions you're talking about particularly the potential exit to the Permian how would you see that longer-term trajectory in terms of liquids targets move around? Is it material or will it essentially remain unchanged? Remain unchanged Doug.
Research Division</strong> So can you give us some idea as to what the headroom is? Well it's enough to handle a full divestiture of the Permian if that's your question.
It's about 5% of our current production so we have -- continue to have a lot of headroom.
You can frankly see it in our curtailments where we've lowered our guidance.
For 2013 I think it was about 50 Bcf on a midpoint perspective and yet we're modeling a curtailment of about 130 Bcf.
So if we weren't curtailing gas we would actually be taking our gas production up for the year.
So I think there's plenty of headroom and we've modeled that we can still get to our 250 000 barrel number by just reallocating capital away from the Permian to other plays.
We have -- actually the benefit of our business strategy is that we have leading positions not just in 1 or 2 plays but in 11 and we can spend additional money in the Anadarko Basin or the Eagle Ford or in the Utica Shale.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My second one and I'll leave after the second one really is on the CapEx program and I guess the disposal indications that you provided.
Specifically on the oilfield services line item it looks like the CapEx there compared to your previous guidance has moved up a bit.
I'm not sure if there's something else in there beyond midstream and oilfield services.
But if you could maybe give us some color on that.
And at the same time the $2 billion disposals you're talking about in the midstream I know there's a lot of moving parts in there.
But Nick has previously given some color as to how you guys see the value of those assets.
I wondered if you could give us a quick recap on what's making up that $2 billion and what's some of the menu items are there that you might look at.
And I'll leave it at that.
Sure Doug.
This is Nick.
We are not really changing our midstream and services CapEx by any material amount.
There is a little bit of additional midstream CapEx.
You saw yesterday that we had an announcement with a company called Gavilon to jointly develop a pipeline.
And there's 2 or 3 other pipelines like that where we have equity options and together they amounted to maybe a 10% increase in midstream CapEx.
But that's a rough number and we have -- those are options we have to determine exactly what we're going to do.
So we've given ourselves in our guidance here some room to participate in some of those projects which we think will be highly accretive.
Ultimately though what we do have there is midstream CapEx services CapEx.
And then we haven't previously given specific guidance on other CapEx and so that's an additional element here.
And other would include seismic.
It would include corporate capital expenditures for things like software and other things that get capitalized in our budget.
What we really tried to do this time was give a complete picture of our ins and outs and so we want that in there.
We are quite purposefully not giving very detailed specific guidance on both midstream and services this time.
You'll remember that yes you've asked in your question here about what are the items that we think will deliver the monetizations.
One of those items we believe will be an IPO of our services business.
And so we need to start being pretty careful about the guidance we provide outside of an SEC process and they'll plan to do that.
So it will be that.
It'll be midstream dropdowns and then we said that we would like to see something happen.
In fact that may also have -- has one on file [ph] so there's not a lot we can say about that either.
We'll go next to David Heikkinen at Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of thinking about you gave guidance for Chesapeake Oilfield Services in your projections and then Chesapeake Midstream Development.
I know you're talking about doing an oilfield services IPO.
Kind of thinking about the margins though of revenue versus operating expenses they look a little low but then they expand.
Can you walk through what your assumptions are that go into -- versus that sort of guidance? Sure.
We at the moment are just entering the pressure pumping business.
We frac-ed our first well in the fourth quarter.
We now have 2 spreads running terrific success early in the life of Performance Technologies LLC our frac-ing company and look forward to continuing to grow that business.
That is of course a high-margin business relative to the overall base that we have there which is dominated by our contract drilling business.
And so we do expect the margins to improve as a result of the rollout of PTL.
You probably will notice that the fourth quarter margins on a summary basis show a little bit less profit from COS.
One thing that did occur there is we did have some additional roll-off of contracts that we're operating previous to our Bronco acquisition for third parties.
And so as those rigs go to work for Chesapeake wells we obviously have to eliminate a bit of that profit whereas in the third quarter that was pure profit to Chesapeake working for a third party.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then thinking about if you -- as you talk about that IPO selling roughly 20% of the business is a target is that a reasonable assumption? That's a reasonable assumption David.
We're way early to give you any firm guidance on that.
But that's as reasonable assumption for now as anything.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if you sold more than 20% does that have any tax implications? Or would that change how you'd have to report capital expenditures or anything along those lines? Those are all the things that we're looking into.
And we don't have a structure finalized yet that we'll pursue.
So I'd like to just pass on that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now shifting kind of to the operating side.
One of the thoughts and questions around your Permian assets and Steve you talked a little bit about the wells 21 wells in 2011.
Can you give us a breakdown of what zones -- just a split of what those wells were to get an idea of how many acres you have in each play and kind of where you've actually had well results? This is Steve again.
I mean it's predominantly in the Avalon and Bone Spring in the Delaware Basin.
We do have 3 rigs running in the Midland Basin and Wolfberry play.
But it's predominantly those big wells that are all in the Bone Spring and Avalon.
David this give us an opportunity to say one thing.
We did see in some analytical work over the last day that there is a view that we went out and acquired 800 000 acres in the fourth quarter in the Permian.
That's not correct.
What people I think are referring to is Jeff it would have been on our third quarter report where we showed how many acres and announced 1.5 million and the reason is because you had 600 000 acres in the other category.
Yes correct.
In the third quarter drilling inventory we had listed a portion of our Permian Basin acreage in the unconventional liquids-rich plays.
As I recall that was 820 000 or 830 000 acres.
Also there was approximately 650 000 net acres in the bottom category that's grouped of our other conventional and unconventional plays.
So we had 1.5 million net acres in the Permian at the third quarter.
We have the same amount of acreage to date.
And also for a point of reference I'll also guide you to our disclosures in our annual report last year where we had reported 1.2 million net acres in the Permian.
So no big acreage spend and some others have kind of missed that point.
We'll move next to Dave Kistler at Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly taking the rig count down to 12 in the Marcellus 6 in the Haynesville 6 in the Barnett obviously could certainly redirect that capital towards other liquids-rich assets.
What's the incentive for keeping those rigs running there at all? Does that have to do with pipeline obligations? If you could just walk me through that I'd appreciate it.
So it's primarily a combination of things Dave.
There is still some acreage lockdown that needs to occur in all those plays that will tend to peel off or become less of an item for the Haynesville as we go through the year.
In the Barnett we have permits that may be kind of "use it or lose it" type of permits.
And so for the initial well on a pad we want to get a well into production and then we can hold off on the incremental drilling after that.
There are some FTE some transport issues in some of the plays but we're willing to try and take some of that and also going to try and renegotiate and kind of reshape some of our firm transports as well.
So I've heard some companies say because of firm transport they'll discontinue to drill gas wells and lose money.
And our view is we should be able to take a little more commercial approach to that.
So I'd just say it's a combination of things that put us in a position where we can go to these levels on an absolute well basis and then we'll take a look at it from here.
These levels of drilling do provide or cause a decline in our production in the Barnett a decline in our production in the Haynesville.
So we think that's certainly a good thing for the marketplace and we look forward to that playing out to the marketplace in 2012 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then looking at kind of your '13 guidance and comparing it to your '12 guidance dry gas production is getting about $900 million of CapEx in '12.
Then in '13 you didn't adjust that production guidance down from what you gave us at 3Q.
Is there going to be an uptick in CapEx to dry gas production at this point? Or is that the anticipated plan? David I just don't think we know enough about what the gas markets is going to look like in 2013 so we kept it to where it is for now.
And well -- and also we have a significant curtailment this year as well of 130 Bcf.
So I think there's -- if the gas market is attractive enough there's a likelihood that we could produce more gas in 2013 than what we presently have modeled.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
One last one if I can looking at your commentary around the financial transaction for Ellis and Roger Mills Counties in Oklahoma Cleveland Tonkawa I'm guessing kind of same sort of structure to what you've previously done in the Utica.
If we think about that as sort of 7% financing before an overriding royalty interest how do I compare that to then debt financing you just did at 7%? Realizing you want to hit investment-grade rating that 7% seems attractive versus giving up an overriding royalty interest and a 7% distribution to the financial partner.
Sure Dave.
I'll take that.
We really view that transaction as an alternative to a strategic JV.
Strategic JVs in this part of the world are complicated for us because of the overlapping geologic plays that exist and so we can take a specific zone and do this financial transaction.
The relative cost of capital to a strategic JV is vastly different here given the structure.
The overall return on this one will be less than the Utica just because this one includes the current production and reserves and is a more well-defined play.
But you're right it will be a similarly structured investment.
We'll go next to Jeff Robertson at Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey or Steve in the Utica you all talked about having one well active in the oil part of the play.
Can you talk about your plans for the oil part and whether that's included in the Total joint venture that you all announced back at the end -- in December? Yes sure Jeff.
First of all it wasn't one well it's one rig running in the oil window and then one in the dry gas window.
So think about if you would the Utica having 3 phases just like the Eagle Ford except rather than the south to north on gas to oil in the Eagle Ford in the Utica we go east to west so gas on the east side and wet gas in the middle and then oil on the west side.
The deal we did with Total is simply right in the middle it's the wet gas window and we purposely kept our dry gas assets back for a better day.
And then on the oil side we just simply haven't drilled enough wells to be able to establish just what our EURs are going to be there.
So there's a lot of interest in that joint venture with us on the oil side and interestingly enough a fair amount on the gas side as well as there are a number of companies that are signed up to export gas from the U.S.
or planning to export gas from the U.S.
want to back that up with some physical assets.
And the Utica would be a great place for them to go.
So we have about 400 000 acres in the dry gas window and I think about 400 000 in the oil window as well.
So we're going to continue to develop both of those sides of the play but the primary amount of our drilling will be in the wet gas window.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey will you run -- will you all have more than one rig out there over the course of this year in your oil part of the play trying to test that? Yes probably go up to maybe 2.
And I think Steve we exit 2012 with how many rigs in the...
20 rigs.
20 we're at 9 today is that right? Yes so it's going to be kind of proportional I would say Jeff as we more or less double our wet rig count we'll do the same on our dry and oil.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving over to the Rockies.
Can you all just provide an update on where you stand in Niobrara and what your plans are for that for 2012? Yes I'll let Steve provide a little more detail.
I mean on the DJ Basin like with other companies our results have been spotty.
And today I don't think we're drilling anything in the DJ Basin in the Niobrara.
On the other hand our Powder River Basin play is working quite well.
And Steve may want to highlight a couple of some wells there or highlight what our activity levels are going to be there.
Yes.
We're just going to get ramped up to last year.
we're up to 8 rigs in the Powder River now wanting to grow that to maybe 15 by the end of the year.
And again we're seeing 500 barrel a day IPs there.
So we have some delineation to do.
But as we bring in extra rigs we can start focusing part of those in sweet spot also.
So we're looking forward to Powder River and the Niobrara.
I might also mention that it's in both of those areas it's not just the Niobrara.
We're investigating lots of different other formations as other operators are as well.
So I think for the DJ I wouldn't say all is lost as you're outside of Greater Wattenberg but there's going to be some other ideas.
But we have certainly shifted our focus on the Niobrara play to the Powder River Basin.
Research Division</strong> Last question Aubrey.
Can you comment if you contemplate exiting a complete exit of the Permian can you compare the results that you all -- the returns that you all anticipate on the different plays in the Permian to what you'll be keeping in the Eagle Ford and the Utica and the Mid-Continent liquids plays? Sure.
I mean I think the returns from our projects in the Permian are first-rate.
And I think that's why you see so much industry interest in the Permian and frankly why you see so much investor interest.
I think if our -- just looking at the valuation of some companies that are pure Permian Basin players we're tempted to spin out our Permian asset and just make it a separate company.
But at the end of the day it's probably best for our overall goals this year to work the JV approach and also to also work the 100% approach as well.
So Bone Spring Wolfcamp Avalon these are all plays that everybody wants to be in.
And I don't need repeat the rate of returns that everybody is talking about getting there.
But they're very strong and our situation is just a real simple one.
We're making the transition from strictly gas to oil and along the way we need to sell some of the assets that we developed.
And this is an asset that we think that will attract a great deal of industry interest.
And also from our perspective it only being 5% of our production it was never going to be a play like the Eagle Ford where right now we're spending 25% of our CapEx on it.
Likewise a play like the Utica could ramp up over time to be a very significant player.
We're spending about 25% of our CapEx in the Anadarko Basin.
We just didn't see the Permian ever getting to a point where it could be as important to us as some of these other assets.
So that's why we are considering the various asset monetization proposals that we've talked about.
We'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate the additional operational disclosure by play on the call and wanted to follow up a bit for some more color on the 2 Utica wells that you referenced.
Specifically if the wells from a lateral length perspective are analogous to the 2 Carroll County wells you disclosed in mid-September how much of the liquids are oil condensate versus NGLs? And then with the drilling efficiencies that you're seeing what your drilling and completion costs are in the play? I don't have the lateral lengths with me Brian but they should be average.
I don't think they were any longer.
And those are preprocessed that was condensate production on those wells averaging over 700 Bs.
Capital costs are -- still a lot of science going on a lot of pilot holes still learning a lot.
So as you can see from 45 days and some 16 days there's a variety of cost also.
But it's 18 to 20 days we should be able to get costs down to what...
We can get it down below $6 million.
Brian that's what I kind of about on our long-term plan is a $5.5 million to $6 million CapEx plan for let's call it a 5 000 foot lateral or so.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And so from the wells that you've drilled and completed and brought on now what percentage of your wet gas acreage would you say you feel like you've derisked? I mean there's been a lot of focus on -- it seems like a lot of focus on Carroll County.
Or do you feel like you've derisked a much wider chunk of that acreage at the moment? Well I think we feel like we've derisked 100% of our wet gas acreage given not only just our results to date but also just our petrophysical work to date.
And remember this is a formation that's been penetrated hundreds of times as companies have drilled to deeper objectives like CNOOC [ph].
So we're 100% confident on the wet gas 100% confident on the dry gas.
It's the oil that we still haven't yet fully proved up how much of that is going into be prospective.
There's a lot of other operators that are going to be throwing results out into the marketplace in the next -- well throughout 2012.
The difference is I think most people will look at this play see where our acreage is concentrated and think that we've got really the heart of the core pretty much locked up.
And so we're very excited that we're likely to be able to deliver the best results.
But my hope is that other operators who are around the fringes will also have success as well and that can only benefit us at the end of the day.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then lastly you highlighted a decent backlog in the Eagle Ford Shale and then it led to a lesser degree in the Utica.
Can you just talk to how and when would you expect that to change in 2012? Is it just bringing on the additional frac crews in the Eagle Ford or the midstream bottlenecks that you anticipate easing or not easing as well? Brian this is Steve.
It's really both.
It's ramping up our ability through the services to complete wells faster and more efficiently but also is the midstream and we've got a lot of activity going on there now.
And our ability to transport oil is increasing significantly just in the last few months and in the coming months.
Research Division</strong> So you do expect the 200 well backlog in the Eagle Ford to be entirely used or 50% used by the end of the year? Or does the ramp offset the -- there's an offset by the ramp-up in activity? No we expect to get work off this year.
That's why we're going from 7 frac crews to 13.
We'll go next to Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification Aubrey.
Did you say -- when you just talked about just briefly now on the Utica cost could you comment again what on that liquid window what the costs are running now for you or Steve? And then kind of well design what's your -- kind of on laterals if you could comment there.
What I said before a 5 000-foot lateral we're driving towards $5.5 million to $6 million well.
And of course to get there we need to be doing enough science to it and that's been really what we're moving into as the science part is over now to go knock it out.
And Steve mentioned we've already got a 16-day well.
And I think some of our first wells are 40 to 45 days.
So it's really at pretty attractive depths.
TVD Steve here is 6 000 to 7 000 feet.
So we're nearly as deep as a number of the unconventional plays.
So we've said from the beginning we love this play and we're very excited about what we've seen to date.
The dry gas is going to work when gas prices get a little better.
And then on the oil side we hope to have some breakthroughs this year as well and hope others in the industry do also.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up Aubrey or Steven.
In the Eagle Ford area are you mostly doing now pad drilling there? And then the second part of that do you believe -- have you looked and do you believe there could be other prospective liquids zones in parts of that play in addition to the Eagle Ford? On the pad -- this is Steve.
On the pad drilling we've only been able to dedicate just a few of our rigs to pad drilling most of them are still out holding new leasehold.
And we have not come across another liquids play yet.
There is certainly a dry gas play in the Pearsall but we're not looking for dry gas right now.
And next we'll move to Marshall Carver of Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the third quarter call you all had 1.4 million net acres in the Mississippian plays.
I think I had 1.1 million in the original play and then 300 000 net acres in the extension.
Then in last week's release you're talking about 1.8 million net acres in the Mississippi Lime plays.
Where would you classify those 1.8 million acres? And where did the extra 400 000 acres go? We're only buying in the core right now so it depends -- other companies may have a different definition of the core and have a different definition of the extension.
But we're trying to focus our leasehold buying in areas where we're pretty comfortable with what the outcome is going to be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you were very active in the Mississippian acreage part over the last 3 months.
Yes although starting to slow down as things get blocked up.
But yes it's one of our remaining plays where there's still some acreage to be picked up.
And given the level of interest that we see in our Mississippi Lime joint venture there's a lot of value to be captured for our shareholders by making sure we square up our positions before we enter into a JV.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And one more question.
On the long-term liquids growth target to the 250 000-plus barrels a day in 2015 how should we think about that in terms of crude production or condensate versus NGLs? Do you have any color on that front? Yes I think we've modeled it about the same way that our production is today.
Steve do you have that? Or Nick do you have the split? I think the split is about 35% to 40% NGLs and the balance being crude and condensate.
So yes just to call it mid-60s maybe 2/3 oil and the rest is in NGLs.
And that's where it is today and where we expect it to remain.
We'll go next to Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On the gas production side Aubrey in 2012 numbers I think you're only looking at about a 5% drop versus the previous guidance.
And I would have expected something more given the curtailments.
So the question is what is embedded into that guidance as far as when you think those production will be back on? Yes really the answer is simply that had we not curtailed production we would've well exceeded our production forecast for 2012 and would've had to take it up.
So I think I've mentioned this in an earlier question which is we went down from 1 020 to 970 Bcf and then are also curtailing though 130 Bcf or we're at least planning on it.
But we don't know how the year will play out.
So obviously we would've had to increase our guidance for 2012 for gas production had we not chosen to curtail as much as we're now curtailing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But you're not assuming that production stays soft for the rest of the year though.
Is that -- is that a fair assumption? I think we have it internally modeled to be off through October.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on '13 and I think you mentioned earlier that you're just waiting to see how the markets shape up before you give more specific guidance or updated the 2013 guidance.
But given the reduction in activity to date do you need to increase from current levels to hit the guidance that you have provided now for gas? I'm sorry to do what levels? I missed the word I'm sorry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To meet the guidance that you provided now for 2013 do we need to see an increase in gas activities? No I mean we're low on gas right now.
So I wouldn't -- on your list of concerns about our ability to meet 2013 gas guidance I think I'd mark that one off.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So with the activities there you are still looking at an increase? Even with the reduced activities you're still looking at a slight increase in 2013? Yes we are.
And again without knowledge of the gas market.
But we've got -- if you were to do this -- if you look at our midpoint of the range this year at 970 Bcf and add 130 Bcf that means our true capacity this year was 1 100 Bcf or 1.1 Tcf.
And so we're modeling next year 1 050 Bcf.
So we were modeling at a 4% decline 2013 from full capacity in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I mean that's pretty remarkable given the kind of drop in activities that you're talking to still get that uptick.
Is that because of activities that are in more liquids-rich and the associated gas production? Or is just the areas -- the shale plays are that much more prolific than you've been thinking? Well I appreciate you recognizing that performance is remarkable it is.
And that's what's driven gas production levels in the U.S.
to where they are we're responsible for 30% of it.
So we feel also somewhat responsible for trying to contain ourselves a little bit.
I think when you just boil it down it's just the sheer productivity on a per well basis.
So the play cycle times are down recoveries on a per well basis are up.
Associated gas helps a little bit but it's not nearly the factor that I've read a lot of people -- and what I see a lot of analysts do is just model an associated wedge for the industry and just put it on top of flat shale production.
We think that the declines from the Barnett and the Haynesville will offset the -- any gains from the Marcellus and then we think the rest of the system they then decline.
So when you take us out of the system as being a contributor to growth it's pretty hard for the rest of the system to grow.
And we'll wait for demand to catch up.
We absolutely believe that will be the case and we see evidence of it every day from -- if you burn diesel in the U.S.
today you are absolutely focused on trying to burn natural gas instead and can read more evidence of that every week in terms of what companies are doing to embrace it.
So we're well on our way to the demand revolution in natural gas that will solve the overhang that we are experiencing today.
We'll take our next question from Bob Brackett at Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on the Williston Basin? You've deemphasized it a bit.
Are you doing more science there? Are you more positive more negative? Bob yes we drilled a couple of wells up there and not crazy about what we found to date so kind of recalibrating there.
We have just under 0.5 million acres kind of south of Dickinson and really to the Three Forks idea for us.
And I suspect the western part of our acreage which is kind of abuts where Whiting is operating will probably work out fine.
We drilled our initial wells more towards the south than the east.
So disappointed to date in what we've seen in the Bakken but have a huge acreage position there.
We didn't spend a whole lot of money on it so not too worried about that.
And really just moving our rigs over to the western side of the play and kind of cozy up a little bit more to what Whiting is doing there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As a follow on those 1 250 non-op wells from 2011 can you talk about where those are in the mix of horizontal-vertical oil-gas and what the call-in capital of that non-op program might be? Yes we can answer that.
They're probably -- I mean virtually all horizontal.
There's hardly anybody we do business with is drilling vertical wells.
Steve in our overall budget are we 20% non-op? What's our...
It's up 15%.
So we're about 15% non-op Bob.
And of course Bob that is included in our CapEx guidance.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure sure.
And where are those? Those mostly Mid-Continent? Yes Western Oklahoma.
Scattered a lot in Marcellus.
We have non-op positions there.
Not so much in places like the Eagle Ford or the Utica where we are the operator.
But I'd say Permian Mid-Continent and Marcellus are the main areas where we have the non-op interest.
And we'll go next to Joseph Allman at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey in terms of leasehold acquisitions.
So I know you're budgeting to spend $1.4 billion net.
Given that you're ramping up in the Mississippian how much have you spent so far gross if you can give us that number? And when you say $1.4 billion net is that net of just the existing JVs? Or are you factoring in future JVs as well? Yes good question Joe.
The net is from reimbursement from existing partners.
So initial first-time down payments on leasehold are not included in that.
So it's really not a gross number it's just like there's no such thing as gross CapEx.
You go drill a well and your partners reimburse you for their share of the CapEx cost and you report your net CapEx and that's what we do on undeveloped leasehold.
We do have partners who have obligations to buy leases alongside us.
So $1.4 billion is what we spend and that does include some partner reimbursement but does not include expected payments from first-time JVs or from just leasehold we will sell just in the ordinary course that may be superfluous to our core operations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to clarify.
So you're going to spend $1.4 billion net on leasehold this year that's your target.
Now you've spent money late last year and early this year ramping up the Mississippian.
So you don't have a Mississippian JV yet.
So that $1.4 billion that includes what you've spent so far in the Mississippian.
But does it also make an estimate of not necessarily the upfront payment but the reimbursements you get for the future Mississippian JV? Okay.
Let me try and clarify a couple of things.
First of all you commented that the $1.4 billion includes all we've spent to date on the Mississippian.
No it's our expected expenditure this year of which some of it will be the Mississippian.
And in that we do anticipate that there will be later in the year some partner pickup of some of our leasehold.
But it is not net of the initial down payment that a partner makes when they come into the Mississippian.
So the primary driver of the $1.4 billion this year I think we've budgeted to spend more in the Utica than anywhere else.
And then after that it kind of falls down pretty rapidly into a wide variety of plays where we continue to kind of square up positions.
So that's -- I hope that makes sense to you.
Research Division</strong> Yes it doesn't necessarily fill in the details but -- so will the leasehold spending be concentrated in the first quarter versus the balance of the year? No I don't know it's going to be concentrated.
It's going to be more front end-loaded because again we project that we're spending less money in the third and fourth quarters in the Utica than we are in the first and second quarter.
And the first quarter always has some spillover from the fourth quarter of the preceding year.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
I think I understand.
And then -- so a different topic.
So in terms of working capital one thing we noticed is that in the fourth quarter 2011 the change in working capital saw a big increase and it was bigger than we saw in prior quarters for a while.
And we just want to get behind the numbers.
I know we spoke to guys last night and I know part of it is just prepays from partners.
So could you guys actually explain that? And also in terms of accounts payable are you managing your accounts payable any differently than you had been? No Joe this is Nick.
There's a lot of activity that occurred in the fourth quarter that resulted in higher total current liabilities.
No difference of how we manage our AP.
We do have partner prepays that resulted in higher accrued liabilities.The way that works is when we have significant partner relationships like we do in our JVs we have the ability to prepay or to prebill them for CapEx.
And when they pay that to us it becomes an accrued liability until such time as we form the activity and then that is reclassed into the full cost pool as an assets.
So there's no change into how we're doing things.
I do think that as we spend less on leasehold this year than we did on a run rate in the fourth quarter and for the year you can see that number come down a little bit this year.
Certainly we will be growing our rig count not at all in fact for the first quarter it will be dipped a little bit.
So our activity levels in general will come down a little bit in the first quarter and so we'll see where it all shakes out.
There's always a lot of timing differences in that number.
For example we had some proven interest expense that just based on the timing of when 9/30 hits versus 12/31 hits was a bigger number in the 12/31 balance.
So there's always some [indiscernible].
Okay anything else? Joe given the time I'm going to let you call Jeff back on that and let everybody else get back to their business.
Thanks for your questions today and appreciate everybody else's participation.
If you have follow-up questions please direct them to Jeff or to John.
And we'll talk to you guys down the road.
Thank you much.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy 2012 First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our conference call today.
I'd like to begin by introducing the members of the management team that are on the call today: Aubrey McClendon our Chairman and CEO; Steve Dixon our Chief Operating Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; and from the Investor Relations Research team John Kilgallon joining us as the Senior Director.
And we have a new person to the team I'd like to introduce to you Gary Clark who joined us from an investment firm in Tennessee.
As usual our call will last one hour.
And so now I'll turn it over to Aubrey.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Let me begin by acknowledging what everyone is clearly aware of.
This has been a very challenging 2 weeks for all of our shareholders bondholders and other stakeholders and also for our friends and employees.
There's been enormous and unprecedented scrutiny of our company and of me personally and a great deal of misinformation has been published and uncertainty created.
Your mother told you not to believe everything you read or hear for a good reason and that's certainly been the case for the past 2 weeks.
I am deeply sorry for all the distractions of the past 2 weeks.
Through all of this I've learned that there was a desire for more information regarding the FWP Program which as a reminder has been in place since 1993 the date that of company's IPO was approved by shareholders in 2005 and I believe has always aligned my interest with the company's interest and ensured that I had skin in the game uniquely among other CEOs.
Consequently last Thursday I disclosed a substantial amount of personal financial information regarding my FWPP interest.
Furthermore Chesapeake's preliminary proxy filed on April 20 also includes enhanced disclosures regarding the FWPP and discloses a multitude of positive governance changes that you should take the time to review.
Hopefully those measures along with the decision to split the role of CEO and Chairman and to terminate the FWPP 18 months early adequately address the questions and misunderstandings that have been bouncing around in the marketplace and the media.
I would like to reiterate that as part of the agreement I will not receive any compensation or any benefit for the 18 months of the FWPP rights that I have agreed to forego.
The board and I are both very pleased that this compromise which I would like to highlight also has been supported by our largest shareholder Southeastern Asset Management which owns a 13% ownership position in the company.
In addition you have seen the Chesapeake's board has begun a search for and will name an independent nonexecutive Chairman of the Board in the near future which is something that I enthusiastically support.
The step reflects our determination to be proactive and uphold strong corporate governance standards.
It will also allow me to have more time to concentrate my full time and attention on the execution of the company's strategy the implementation of our substantial transformation to a major oil producer and the completion of our asset monetization and joint venture objectives.
Despite all the noise of the past 2 weeks my primary job as CEO has been and always will be to build long-term value along with attractive short-term return for the company and all of its stakeholders.
That is the task at hand and that is and has been my primary focus for the past 20 years.
Those that know me know that I will work tirelessly to achieve that goal and no I will not allow myself or your management team to be distracted from that mission.
I'd now like to shift our discussion to other important topics including the results from the 2012 first quarter a quarter in which we experienced both positives and negatives.
The 4 most important positives for the quarter were: number one our production growth was strong especially in liquids growth up 69% year-over-year and 7% sequentially; number two our finding costs were only $7.14 per barrel of oil equivalent.
Surely that's the lowest among the large-cap E&amp;Ps if not the entire industry.
Number three the amount of new reserves we found was 1.8 Tcfe or 300 million barrels of liquid equivalent.
That was exceptional and again I suspect industry-leading for the quarter.
Number four all of our plays are working very well and we don't have any bad operational news to share.
Quite simply in the field it's all good.
However we did experience 2 negatives for the quarter to offset some of the positives.
Number one because of extremely low natural gas prices and also NGL prices combined with wider-than-expected basis differentials slightly higher operating costs due to oil wells being more expensive to operate than gas wells and certain noncash losses on 2 of our equity investments in Frac Tech and Chaparral we reported adjusted EPS of $0.18 per fully diluted share which is below the average analyst consensus of $0.29.
That is our first significant earnings miss in many years I believe and hopefully our last.
Number two because our CapEx for drilling completion leasehold had been significantly front end-loaded this year that in combination with reduced cash flow from low gas prices caused our net long-term debt levels net of cash to rise roughly $2 billion during the quarter.
We had anticipated and planned for such an increase but possibly many others didn't.
So I can imagine that some might think we have abandoned our $9.5 billion year-end net long-term debt target and our 25/25 Plan for year-end 2012.
The short answer is no we certainly have not.
It's just the 2012 CapEx will be more heavily skewed to the first quarter while operating cash flow and asset monetizations will spread out throughout the year.
So we have to work a bit harder on the asset monetization front to counteract currently soft U.S.
natural gas prices to hit our year-end targets.
The good news is the positives for our company are enduring and the negatives we believe are short-term in nature.
Importantly we expect the run rate of our CapEx spending to greatly decrease during the remainder of the year.
So if one were to simply multiply our first quarter CapEx numbers by 4 they would arrive at a very wrong conclusion about our planned full year CapEx spending.
Another point about CapEx that I would like to emphasize is that the levels we have budgeted for in 2012 and '13 are absolutely required if we are to escape the downward gravitational pull of natural gas prices and capitalize on the very attractive prices for oil and natural gas liquids available for us in the marketplace.
The payoff for this corporate transition we have underway should be increasingly clear for all to see in our liquids production growth over the next year and in the years ahead.
Please remember from a base of only 30 000 barrels a day of liquids production at the end of 2009 we are well on our way to delivering liquids production even after planned asset monetizations of more than 150 000 barrels per day in 2013 200 000 barrels per day in '14 and 250 000 barrels per day in 2015.
And this will all come from assets that we already own.
We believe this could turn out to be the best liquids volume growth story in the U.S.
industry and perhaps one of the best in the world as well.
Returning to CapEx for a minute.
Chesapeake's 2012 first quarter frontend-loaded CapEx levels were attributable to several items that will not persist through the year.
Steve will have more to say on drilling CapEx as part of his prepared remarks.
But my quick summary is that during the fourth quarter of 2011 we ran as many as 172 rigs because we were rapidly ramping up our liquids-focused drilling while at the same time we were deliberately but more slowly ramping down gas drilling.
Because of the time requirements to execute this shift and the time lag of completions the first quarter took the brunt of that elevated drilling level from the fourth quarter.
I'm happy to report that today we have already dropped 18 operated rigs to reduce our total to 154 and our drilling during the year will decline further to around 125 rigs by the third quarter.
So as the year moves along we'll be drilling with about 25% fewer rigs than we used on our fourth quarter peak and CapEx on drilling and completion should move down sharply in tandem with this rig decline.
Importantly our gas drilling will drop even more significantly than our overall drilling levels.
At the beginning of 2012 we were operating 50 gas rigs.
But during the 2000 (sic) [2012] first quarter we averaged 38.
And within 90 days from now will be down to only 12 so I'd like to emphasize that.
50 rigs in January of 2012 drilling gas wells; down to 12 rigs in just 90 days a drop of more than 75%.
Another way to look at the 2012 first quarter drilling CapEx is to analyze actual dollars spent on plays -- gas plays such as the Haynesville and the Barnett.
On those 2 plays alone we spent approximately $575 million during the 2012 first quarter.
However for the next 3 quarters we plan to spend just about $100 million each quarter in these 2 plays or more than an 80% reduction per quarter.
One final aspect of our drilling CapEx spend during the first quarter is that we still had a big backlog of uncompleted gas wells that we had to complete to finish the steps necessary to hold our valuable leasehold by production and make them permanent assets.
In fact we completed 57 more gas wells during the quarter than we spud.
And so we already have completed more than 50% of the gas wells expected for the full year in just the first quarter of this year.
Next I'd like to address leasehold CapEx.
It was also strategically and purposely frontend-loaded with about $525 million of the quarter's approximate $900 million leasehold spend focused on the Utica and Mississippi Lime plays.
This plan was designed to complete our leasehold purposes -- purchases in conjunction with our completed or planned JVs in these areas.
Now as the most important areas have been captured these 2 areas and in reality all of our remaining plays will see greatly reduced leasehold spending during the remainder of 2012.
We've built an exceptional portfolio of assets during the past 7 years of what I call the great unconventional resource revolution.
And from here on it's all about exploiting these assets to the maximum benefit of the company and its shareholders.
As evidence of that strategic transaction -- transition we have greatly reduced our leasehold CapEx budget in 2013 to $500 million from -- down from a high of $1.25 billion.
And that's a level that we believe will be on the high end of our typical out-year leasehold maintenance CapEx level.
This is an important point and so I'd like to reiterate it.
We are all set with our asset base with the exception of the sale of the Permian and a few other minor odds and ends that we have left to sell later in '12 and in '13.
Quite simply as a result of our innovative approach to the business and hard work during the past 7 years we now have a very focused and exceptionally high-quality asset base.
In fact we think it's the best in the industry.
We've now established #1 position in the Utica Mississippi Lime Granite Wash Cleveland Tonkawa Powder River in the Niobrara Marcellus Haynesville and Bossier plays.
In addition we have established #2 positions in the Eagle Ford and the Barnett.
No one else in the industry has assembled anything close to this scale and quality of an asset portfolio.
In short we've built a very strong foundation of 11 #1 and #2 positions in the nation's best plays.
And to make sure I'm crystal clear on this we have no interest in going to Canada or anywhere else outside the U.S.
With the very best asset base in the business it's now time to transition our business from being an aggressive new play identifier leasehold acquirer and play developer into a more deliberate but very high-quality manufacturing company that will focus on achieving exceptional returns on capital on the assets we already own.
So what will all of our hard work actually do for our shareholders? And what will lead to future stock price performance they deserve? And why have we been willing to spend multiples of our cash flow on liquids-rich drilling at a time of low natural gas prices? Because it's in order to position the company to become cash flow positive in 2014 and beyond and to run a more balanced company as well.
Having now captured and paid for decades of low-risk drilling opportunities that are now more evenly balanced between natural gas and liquid plays we very much like the future path that we are on compared to the path we were on previously which was essentially a 100% natural gas-focused company.
This transition to oil will enable us to deliver strong returns to our shareholders and an investment-grade balance sheet to our bondholders in the years to come.
And our long-term goals will remain to increase Chesapeake's production and cash flow each year by at least 10% to 15% while generating exceptional returns along the way.
I've never be more excited about the company's position in the industry the strength of our assets and the coming improvements to our balance sheet.
As a reminder we have a total of $11.5 billion to $14 billion of asset monetizations planned for 2012 of which we've completed more than $2.5 billion to date.
Throughout the year we plan to bring in another $9.5 billion to $11.5 billion from asset monetizations including the sale of our Permian Basin assets and joint venture in the Mississippi Lime a volumetric reduction payment in Eagle Ford shale the sales of various noncore oil and gas assets and partial monetizations of the company's Oilfield Service and Midstream assets.
We believe those actions will lower our debt by year-end 2012 to our $9.5 billion 25/25 Plan target and will fully cover our capital expenditures plan for the year.
Making this transition in just a few years during any time is hard work but it's been exceptionally challenging during the time of $2 natural gas.
And even though it's not been easy it's been worth it.
Consider where we would be had we not embarked on this transformation.
Our operating cash flow for the year would likely have been half what it is now including liquids.
And based on these metrics I'm convinced we would've had a single-digit stock price had we not started to make this shift to liquids 4 years ago and accelerated last year and early this year.
We expect to be largely finished with this transformation by year-end 2013.
I'll conclude by reminding you what 5 tasks we are focused on completing for the remainder of the year.
First we intend to meet both of our objectives on the 25/25 Plan despite our large production curtailments on the gas side and despite low gas prices themselves.
We expect to end the year at $9.5 billion in long-term debt and will have grown our production by at least 25% during '11 and '12.
Second we intend to monetize a total of $11.5 billion to $14 billion of assets this year to property sales JVs and other asset monetization transactions.
Third we intend to continue to demonstrate that we can consistently find new proved reserves at an all-in cost of less than $10 per barrel of oil equivalent.
In the first quarter our finding costs were only around $7 per barrel of oil.
And you can't go wrong in this industry if you can find oil and gas in the U.S.
at $7 per barrel.
Fourth we'll remain focused on our goal of reaching 150 000 barrels per day of liquids production in 2013 200 000 barrels per day in '14 and 250 000 barrels per day in '15.
This is all net of planned asset monetizations.
During the 2012 first quarter our liquids production was up 46 000 barrels per day over the year-ago quarter to a level of almost 114 000 barrels per day.
We believe this remains the second-best liquids volume growth story in the industry and in time could become the best.
And if you look at where some of our oilier peers trade today it appears that Chesapeake's value in the marketplace could be almost fully supported by our oil business when the nation's largest gas resource base is being valued at close to 0.
Fifth we believe that with a reasonable recovery in gas prices in 2014 along with growth of our liquids production as modeled our operating cash flow should match our drilling CapEx and the CapEx funding gap that we have experienced this year and next year and a couple of years in the past will be an issue of the past.
By 2014 we intend to be generating around $7 billion of operating cash flow to have around $4.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent proved reserves and will have completely transformed our company from being only an 8% liquids producer in 2009 to a producer with much greater balance and strength in the years ahead.
These are 5 big goals to achieve to be sure particularly in this low gas price environment with 5 that we are confident we can achieve and 5 that should create significant levels of shareholder value as we complete them.
We are eager to leave behind the controversies of the past few weeks and focus all of our energies on delivering on these key objectives during the remainder of the year.
We appreciate you hanging tough with us.
I'll now turn the call over to Nick.
Thanks Aubrey.
I'll begin by reviewing our first quarter results in more detail.
From an earnings perspective this was a noisy quarter so I thought I would address a few of the most significant items right up front.
Approximately $0.03 per share of our earnings miss related to lawsuits and investments accounted for under the equity method specifically at Frac Tech and Chaparral.
Another $0.03 was driven by higher than expected per unit production expenses before [ph] a function of increased costs associated with oil wells which were more expensive to operate than gas wells and the new Marcellus impact fee which the state assessed retroactively on all operators.
I'll further note that despite a big increase in the first quarter going forward we have only increased our budgeted production expenses per unit by $0.05 per Mcfe as some of this was clearly one-time in nature.
Beyond these 2 largest factors gas prices and differentials including NGL realizations also played a fairly significant role.
Moving on to liquidity.
We had approximately $2.3 billion in cash availability at the end of the quarter versus $3.1 billion on December 31.
I'll also note that our working capital deficit decreased from its peak level at December 31 2011.
As more of our production shifts to higher value liquids and activity levels decline this year we expect this deficit to continue to decrease.
We did enhance liquidity during the quarter with a senior notes offering that has a very advantageous feature allowing us to call the notes at par later this year with the proceeds from asset sales.
While $2 gas prices have for sure created headwinds for us as evidenced in our lower operating cash flow projections for the year we still anticipate monetizing sufficient assets to meet our 25/25 Plan.
Those monetizations are moving along as planned with good success from the Granite Wash VPP and Cleveland Tonkawa subsidiary preferred both completed in Q1.
The next significant transactions planned are in Eagle Ford VPP and Miss Lime JV and the Permian Basin sale.
Further I'll point out that upon reaching our debt paydown target at the end of the year with proceeds from these asset sales inclusive of calling the notes issued in February we will have a nearly undrawn revolver which has a capacity of $4 billion.
As relates to our CapEx spend this quarter and over the last several periods it's very important to note the glide path downward we are now firmly making.
We did expect to see that start in Q1 of this year but as Aubrey noted lingering activity while ramping down and cost spillover from the fourth quarter held us up a bit.
However drilling and leasehold CapEx from here begin to dip the latter fairly dramatically.
This of course is due to having captured the assets needed to grow liquids production.
And while the time lag from asset capture to cash flow generation will still take a bit more time and despite-ing the headwind of lower gas prices I'd also like to point out that we have grown proved reserves 34% over the last 8 quarters and SEC PV-10 84% with the latter growing much faster due to the higher-value assets we are adding today.
Our PV-10 at SEC pricing at March 31 was over $20 billion.
And at the 10-year NYMEX Strip it was over $24 billion.
That is nearly 2x our GAAP balance sheet debt and well covers the even more conservative analyst debt plus other obligations analyses.
Proved reserves will continue to grow rapidly on the strength of nonproved reserves we already have the rights to develop.
And the increase in our PV-10 is the proof that benefit of our spending programs of the past period.
In addition we also own substantial Midstream and services businesses which -- Midstream and a service business the latter -- sorry the company retains an extraordinary collection of assets.
We have lots of options going forward on how to best fund our continuing transition to liquids-focused company from our historical gas-only focus.
We remain unhedged on the gas side and are hopeful some of the worst gas prices may be behind us.
From a liquids perspective we are 60% hedged for the remainder of 2012 at an average price of approximately $103 per barrel.
I would like to mention that we removed our oil and natural gas hedges during the market swing caused by Greek debt worries early last fall.
The plan was to put them both back on but gas prices never recovered enough to do so in large part due to the abnormally warm winter.
However on the oil side we collected $46 million of cash last year for 2012 hedges that we lifted.
And later in the year were able to enter into new swaps with prices roughly $6.40 higher per barrel than the market price when the hedges were removed.
On the gas side we collected $353 million of cash by lifting the 2012 hedges last fall the gains of which will flow through our income statement this year and provide a $0.58 per Mcf of uplift this quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve to give an overview of some of our most recent operational achievements.
Thanks Nick.
First quarter 2012 was another very successful quarter in our transformation from an exclusively natural gas-focused driller and producer a few years ago to a more balanced liquids-focused driller and operator today.
I'm pleased to report overall production for the quarter grew to nearly 3.66 Bcf a day which is now 19% from oil and natural gas liquids.
That's up from a 13% liquids mix a year ago.
This tremendous organic liquids growth is quite an amazing feat for a company of our size.
Our liquids production has increased from 30 000 barrels per day back in fourth quarter of '09 up to 67 500 barrels per day in the first quarter of 2011 to now approximately 113 600 barrels a day in this quarter.
That's an increase of 46 400 barrels per day or 69% in just one year.
Taken alone that 46 400 barrels per day of growth would place Chesapeake's last 12 months of production growth as the 21st largest producer of liquids in the U.S.
These results are a positive reflection of the great liquids assets that we've built our flexibility to move quickly as a result of our vertical integration and the operational skill of our organization.
Anyone who thinks we're still just a natural gas story please take another look.
In fact we are one of the world's best oil growth stories.
Our frontend-loaded CapEx spending in the first quarter on drilling completion activity includes a sizable lag for much higher drilling activities in the fourth quarter.
This gas drilling and completion activity that's accounted for over half of this year's expected activity in just one quarter as well as we had a considerable amount of non-op participations.
Even though gas rig activity reductions are well underway from 50 operated rigs at the beginning of 2012 to an expected 12 gas rigs by the end of next quarter the completions of previously drilled gas wells had to be performed in order to hold the leasehold by production.
As Aubrey mentioned we completed 57 more gas wells than we spud during the quarter.
We are also reducing previously expected drilling CapEx on select liquids-rich plays as in some of these plays -- as in many of our plays we are moving into more of a development mode that will provide cost savings as well.
We also expect to realize cost savings in the coming months from reduced service cost and improved operating efficiencies as our ramp-ups in key plays start to level off.
We have negotiated new lower service agreements with key providers in each of our major plays on a broad range of services the most significant being pressure pumping.
And we expect these reductions will have more significant impact on our capital spending in second quarter and the rest of the year.
Switching to specific operational performances.
We'd like to start with our growth in the Eagle Ford Shale which is setting company production records on a weekly basis.
Just last week we produced more than 55 000 barrels of gross operated crude.
That's a gain of 30 000 barrels of oil since January 1 of this year which is an increase of 120% in just 4 months.
We are currently producing gross operated 75 000 BOE per day in this outstanding play.
Our production gains will come from across an expansive acreage position.
We have a collection of recent wells IP-ing at over 1 000 barrels a day.
And we believe our 475 000 net acres of leasehold were very selectively chosen and today cover some of the most prolific portions of the entire trend.
Our Eagle Ford operational teams have done a great job adding barrels.
And now their further focus is on efficiency.
We have made improvements in our stimulation and completion processes resulting in higher production without added cost.
In fact we were able to lower per well costs by approximately 15% due to faster drilling times and lower stimulation costs.
Infrastructure buildout is still a key within the Eagle Ford and we expect to have future production growth fully connected to pipeline infrastructure by early 2013.
And this will help price realizations greatly and lower our transport costs by about 2/3.
We are currently running 35 rigs in this play and we'll average approximately 30 for the year.
In the Miss Lime play in Northern Oklahoma and Southern Kansas we have a very active program.
We have 133 horizontal producers and 22 rigs running in the play.
Net production in the first quarter averaged almost 13 000 barrels of equivalent a day.
In terms of liquids-rich play we find the Miss Lime very attractive economically given the shallow depths and the cheaper drilling and completion costs associated.
We have data room currently active in pursuit of a JV partner which we hope to wrap up in the coming few months.
In the Powder River Niobrara play we have 9 operated rigs currently running and our plans are to maintain that activity level throughout the rest of the year.
We have experienced several recent drilling and completion successes in the play due to our growing understanding of the reservoir and focusing on higher pressure and optimally mature areas recent IPs have been around 700 barrels of oil and 1.5 million per day.
And please don't confuse this with the DJ Basin Niobrara where we and others have struggled outside of the Greater Wattenberg Field to make this formation economic across a broader area.
Up in the Powder River the Niobrara is 5 000 feet deeper than in the DJ and we have now identified an area of approximately 60 000 to 100 000 acres that is overpressured with super-rich liquids.
We believe the returns in this area will be outstanding and no other public company owns leasehold in this particular super-rich area.
Now in the Cleveland and Tonkawa tight sand plays in Roger Mills and Ellis Counties in Oklahoma and Hemphill County in the Texas Panhandle we have 15 operated rigs running across both plays and plan to reduce that to 13 by year end.
Production for the first quarter was 18 500 BOE per day.
Initial rates for these wells routinely exceed 850 BOE per day.
We are working with others to jointly get infrastructure enhancements in place to move our oil on to Cushing and to gain access to Mount Belvieu for our liquids.
And lastly the Utica Shale play in Ohio where we are by far the leading leasehold holder and operator with 10 operated rigs currently working to evaluate our 1.3 million net acres.
We continue to delineate the wet gas window with our JV partner Total with outstanding results.
The overall pace of delineation should increase now that other operators are starting to drill in the play.
The dry gas window towards the east is highly productive and large portions will be HBP-ed by the overlap on our efforts in the wet gas window of the Marcellus.
Marcellus we are currently operating 6 rigs and recently tested several new wells with over 300 barrels a day of condensate.
The Utica oil window still needs additional drilling and study and we are not ready to disclose specific thoughts just yet although we remain confident that we will have very positive results to share by mid-year.
We are testing various completion techniques in oil window and want to see how they work for us before we release any public information.
To wrap this up our liquids-rich plays are working exceptionally well.
Eagle Ford is our major force and is attracting 30% of our CapEx this year followed by solid contributions from all across our key portfolio plays in the Miss Lime Niobrara Granite Wash and Cleveland Tonkawa.
The Utica is our developing giant where we will control all aspects of the development in the play because of our massive first-mover and discovery advantage.
We've trued up our corporate production guidance to exclude all production from expected near-term monetizations and have tightened our belt on natural gas expenditures and even trend some liquids-rich activity.
Our front end-loaded CapEx in the first quarter 2012 may be misunderstood by some.
But even if so it still produced excellent finding and development costs of around $7.15 a barrel and we added 180 million BOE of proved reserves from our liquids-rich play alone in the first quarter.
We do expect lower rig counts and lower unit costs on all of our plays and as we move further down the development cycle.
Operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So obviously there's a lot of focus on your free cash flow or the deficit that's out there over the next 18 months excluding planned monetizations.
But when you step back and look at it -- and obviously there's a pretty call on you guys being successful due to the monetization.
When you look at it what is the minimum on the spending you all think you need to do in like 2012 to hold your acreage? I mean could you cut a little bit more? Or are you basically running at bare minimum right now to hold your acreage? From our perspective it's not really the consideration that drives us.
I mean our goal is to get away from being this overweighted towards gas producer.
And to do that we have to spend money.
The good news is we can spend more money than our cash flow quite significantly and yet still reduce our debt and not increase our share count.
So to me that should be the focus.
Sure we could cut our rig count significantly from here but I think that does expose some of our leasehold to potential expiry.
On the gas side we're basically about done.
I think when we get down to 2 rigs in the Haynesville that's all we'll need.
The Marcellus we're actually in a lease renewal program to try and enable us to get down to that 12 rigs we talked about.
So again this is all a very deliberate plan and we could -- today the focus of the call could've been we're going to live within our cash flow it's all going to come from gas.
And frankly I think that would be a pretty sad story.
So our plan instead starting over a year ago was to make this transition.
And we knew we had enough assets in the attic so to speak that we could sell them and yet still grow our production by 25% still pay down debt by 25% and make that transition.
And of course to do so in a $2 gas worlds tough.
But we're up to it and that's what we intend to do.
So back to the heart of your question we have a lot of optionality with regard to rig counts.
Right now we're trying to find the optimum level that minimizes leasehold problems and minimizes firm transport problems and also accelerates the transition away from assets that don't produce much cash flow today which are gas assets to assets that produce a lot of cash flow which are oil and natural gas liquids assets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I mean the bottom line is I guess I'm not questioning your ability to execute on the monetizations because you've got a pretty good track record.
And can you sort of give us an update then with where you are with regards to I guess the next few important ones like the Permian Mississippi and as well as the Eagle Ford VPP? Yes sure.
I'll let Nick speak to the VPP but that's in the not-too-distant future I think.
And with regard to Permian the data room opens next Monday our physical data room.
I think the virtual data room has been opened a little bit.
We have a long line of people want to be in it.
It's the hottest basin in the world in all likelihood.
And from our perspective it's just not a place we were ever going to be #1 or #2.
And I think when all the dust settles here and you look at the company what do we want to achieve and we want to achieve the best returns in the business.
And to do that I think you've got to be the best at what you do.
And for us that's going to be to be #1 and #2 in 11 of the most important plays in the nation after we sell the Permian.
So the Permian will get bought either in 3 packages a group of 3 packages or individually in those 3 packages.
And there will be companies that either want to establish a presence in that basin or who want to solidify that.
So we hope to have an announcement there in the first part of the third quarter and to get it closed in the third quarter.
The Miss Lime data rooms have been open now for several weeks.
And I'm pleased with the interest that we see in that asset and look forward to announcing that as well.
That will probably happen I would think before the Permian.
Nick do you want to add anything on the VPP? No.
It's like you said it's relatively near-term and we're working through that.
Those are transactions obviously that we have a lot of confidence in.
We've completed 10 before and we have a lot of confidence in this one as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And one last question on your Founders Well Program if I'm not mistaken I mean that wasn't necessarily like a conveyance of wellbores.
Do you hold I guess acreage when you sort of opt in to the wells that right to.
Any kind of like future downspacing opportunities which would you also be involved in? Yes.
I believe Scott the language is governmental spacing unit.
And so yes and I pay for that acreage and then I receive an assignment of the governmental spacing unit.
Next we'll move to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the projected guidance net of the asset sales because clearly it seems I guess you've got confidence in the line of sight now to give us an indication what happens when you monetize the assets.
What I'm trying to understand is the longer-term guidance hasn't changed.
And obviously you're knocking out a fair amount of production on liquids next year.
Can you help us with the moving parts? What are you assuming from the VPP the Permian asset sale and the Miss Lime? And then looking longer-term what's coming in extra that's making up a difference that allows you to stand by the 250 000 barrels in your target by 2015? Ill take the longer-term target and let Nick talk about the shorter-term.
Long term Doug is simply that we don't have to have all of the assets we have today to meet those targets.
And so while selling the Permian or selling 25% of the Miss Lime certainly impacts 2012 and 2013 production that's why we brought down our guidance.
It doesn't do anything in terms of our ability to meet our out-year targets because we'll simply have drilled more Eagle Ford wells and more Utica wells and more Cleveland Tonkawa wells than we otherwise would have.
Of course remember the Miss Lime JV also allows us to accelerate drilling on the asset.
So not only does it save us CapEx but it also drives our production higher from an asset after we do a JV.
So the company has the ability through all of its liquids-rich asset plays to meet its out-year goals.
It's simply the $2 gas that's required us to take a little bit of a step-back here and so more deeply into the portfolio.
But it doesn't have anything -- any impact on '14 and '15.
So I'll let...
Yes.
From a near-term perspective Doug we baked all of this into our guidance now as you point out.
And one of the changes is that from previous looks at this we've moved our Eagle Ford VPP up in the year.
And so that has a bigger impact on near-term cash flow as a result near-term production as a result.
VPPs of course are assets that we've transferred the rights to production but only in certain wellbores; those wellbores decline.
So the impact of that VPP sale over time diminishes greatly.
And so that's one of the reasons why you saw a lot of production upfront and that changes your near-term production guidance but it doesn't change it as much in the out-years.
And of course we don't sell any rights or anything around those wellbores and so we retain all of that growth prospectivity around the Eagle Ford.
And that's really what drives some of that difference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate.
My follow-up Aubrey is really more of a conceptual question.
Clearly the market doesn't really seem terribly receptive to what's been happening here recently.
And looking at your share price now you're basically lining out more than $15 billion of asset sales over the next 2 years.
My understanding is some of your newer leases the liquids-rich leases have longer-dated expiries.
So maybe you've got a little bit more flexibility there perhaps.
But my question is why not redirect some of that capital back to buying back your stock at these levels? We first have to get our debt down to where we want it Doug and then I think that's actually a legitimate portion of -- can be a legitimate portion of our strategy going forward.
I mean clearly you get half of something for free here when you buy our stock in my opinion.
You buy our gas business and you get the oil business for free.
Or you buy the oil business and you get the gas business for free.
You buy -- Nick mentioned the PV-10 of our proved assets using just -- the 10-year strip is $24 billion.
That doesn't include our Oilfield Services business our Midstream business.
So that means you get all the uncrude for free.
So there's something free here that's substantial no matter how you look at it.
And so we're trying to get to that promised land as quickly as possible.
And maybe some people think you should just sit there and be stuck in the mud of $2 gas prices.
But we don't believe that's the way to go.
And so as a consequence we're going to spend the capital needed to make that transition but we're going to decrease our debt and not increase our share count to do that and I think it's pretty extraordinary.
If in 2013 we get to a point where our debt reduction targets have been met we're satisfied that our funding has been met and the stock price still represents a compelling opportunity there's no reason why we couldn't redirect capital towards that.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey I don't want to labor the point but let me be clear what I'm asking you.
If you've got a lot of flexibility in your capital expenditure why not just defer that and buy back your stock today? Because the board and management's #1 goal is  twin #1 goals are to reduce our debt as we've said we will under the 25/25 Plan and to make a transition from gas to oil.
That's the best way to be -- have a long-term sustainable company.
And to buy back our equity at this point in our view does not create the long-term sustainability that we want from a balance sheet perspective and from a corporate asset productivity perspective.
We'll hear next from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First Aubrey Just wondering in your comments on -- I noticed you tended to go nonconsent on a few more wells than typical; kind of your comments on that.
Going forward is that going to be kind of a routine pattern? Or how do you see that playing out? Yes.
But that's really only gas wells.
And specifically primarily the Haynesville we had a couple of operators there that still are more active there than we would care to be.
And so we only lose a wellbore when we do that.
And I'm not exactly sure on the nonconsent penalties but they can be 300% 300% or 400% 400% so you're back at it at some point.
But we have now close to I think 6 000 wells left to drill in the Haynesville.
So if we lose our wellbore rights to a few that are operated by others that's okay.
And we didn't do that in the first quarter because the election for those wells would have been made in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 when gas prices were projected obviously to be about double where they are here.
So we're in a situation where gas prices have been halved from where we thought they would be at the beginning of the winter.
And that doesn't halve your cash flow from those assets.
It basically wipes it out because you have obviously fixed costs.
So at any rate as a consequence of where we are in the gas price world we're obviously making lots of changes here and not the least of which is to not elect in gas wells being drilled by others on a much more selective basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just move onto maybe obviously either you or Steve just wondering on 2 things here.
First either in the Utica or then look at the Eagle Ford.
Obviously I think in the Utica because the state always wants that pre-peak [ph] I understand why you've put that out.
It was just maybe seeing if you could help us understand behind either like the Shaw or the Burgett or I mean the 3 that were talked about maybe what the typical sustained rate is today versus just that peak rate out there.
And maybe if you could do the same thing in the Eagle Ford around that McKenzie D 3H and as well as the Blakeway.
Well I Neil don't have that with me on what those wells are making today.
They're declining like most all of our shale plays.
We're very pleased the results I mean good IPs it's oil high liquids.
So this is a great play.
But the reality is we only have 9 producers and so not much data yet.
That's all right.
I was just going to point out that the Buell is really an important well.
And the Buell was the well that was shut in for the longest before it came on.
And so one of the approaches we've taken in here is that our wells are -- we're not bringing them on immediately after completion.
Sometimes that's due to pipeline delay but sometimes it's due to certain engineering and production performance benefits that we get by leaving them shut in for a while.
So if you look at the Buell at least 575 000 barrels of liquids and 13 Bcf of gas it may very well be our best shale well ever.
And so I think that's a great indication of what's likely to come going forward in that play.
But you're never going to get the information you probably desire from the state reports because it's never going to report liquids and it's always going to be at peak rate.
So I think you'll just have to watch the play develop.
And the good news is a lot of other producers are getting in the area and starting to talk about it more I think you'll be able to triangulate in to what we see which is how could we be more pleased with the play when in one of your first wells you drilled your best shale well ever after having drilled thousands of shale wells.
So I think it really bodes well for the play going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey what's your sort of forecast I guess about the western flank of the Utica? I mean whats your expectation its a little bit even further less than you've drilled.
Well if you think about -- if you mean by western flank if you meaning the oil window I would probably characterize it a little bit differently.
We would look at our oil window as not being on the flank but instead being right up against our wet gas window.
And again we've been careful not to say how much of our oil window acreage which is around 400 000 acres is likely to be prospective because we just don't know yet.
We haven't drilled enough wells there.
But obviously we're very encouraged by the Anadarko wells that have been drilled down to the south in the oil window.
And so I think we'll know a lot more in the next 60 90 120 days both from our own drilling but also that from others.
So there were a lot of people who said we couldn't crack the code in the oil phase of the Eagle Ford as well.
And we routinely bring in wells of 500 to 1 000 barrels a day there.
So we remain confident about the oil window of the Utica.
It's just our focus to date has been on something that we knew would work well and that was the wet gas side of the play.
We'll hear next from Monroe Helm with Barrow Hanley.
Hanley Mewhinney &amp; Strauss Inc.</strong> I'd just like to follow up on the comment that you -- one of your colleagues made earlier about taking hedges off last year.
Can you kind of walk us back through what precipitated you reducing your -- or taking off your hedges on the gas side? Sure be happy to Monroe.
So first of all to give you some context since 2006 I think our gains have been about $8.5 billion.
I think that's by far the best in the industry.
Our track record is not perfect but I think that's pretty good.
And so what happened last fall was in one of the Greek euro market swoons oil prices dropped down to lower levels; gas prices dropped we thought without any regard to the fundamentals.
And so we took them off and look to put them back on when things stabilize.
In oil we did.
We got I think all of our oil hedges back on at I think it was $7 or $8 maybe higher than where we had put them on.
So that created a lot of value for us.
And gas just we never got the chance again.
And obviously we are not happy with that decision.
If we had to do it all over again with the hindsight of winter we would've obviously done something different.
But to me it's a little bit like owning a stock and everybody's owned a stock.
It's met 80% of your expectations and then you begin to think about is it time to sell is this what I came for.
And from us we thought we had received a gift a downdraft that was unrelated to fundamentals in the U.S.
gas market.
And we thought we would take advantage of that.
We have routinely done this in the past and have been quite successful.
This is the only time that I can remember that we took hedges off and then it just fell away from us.
So we got most of what we came for.
And honestly we would've probably never kept them until today.
And with gas prices when they started to fall aggressively December January we would've continued to probably lift for the reason that I stated that we would've captured most of what we came for.
And so today we're in a gas market that looks bad but at the same time you've got the demand pickup from coal.
You've got producers.
I mean look at us we've gone from 100 gas rigs running at the start of 2010 and we're going to be at 12 in 90 days.
And we havent talked about this but our gas production from a peak production capacity in 2012 to 2013 will decline 10% or 12%.
This is a company that's single-handedly responsible for 25% of the gas production growth in the whole U.S.
over the last 5 years and our production goes down by 10% to 12%.
So it guarantees that there will be a different gas market going forward and you're well aware of all the demand initiatives underway.
So I hope that gives you some further insight into the decision that we made.
Hanley Mewhinney &amp; Strauss Inc.</strong> Okay.
Could I ask a follow-up? Your gas wellhead realization seemed to be lower than what would be indicated by the futures market or the spot market.
Are your wellhead prices been affected by the need to make payments to pipelines in your agreements for takeaway capacity? Or is there something else going on? Or am I totally wrong? I don't think we've had to make any firm transport payments yet.
But Nick correct me but...
Yes.
We've made -- as we discussed in our filings we've made some payments to under minimum volume commitments Chesapeake Midstream Partners over the last couple years.
If we've made any other FT payments thus far they've been relatively small.
It's been part of our calculation to determine how much gas we wanted to or we were comfortable with curtailing this year.
And so there are optimal points where you might be willing to make some of those payments versus producing the gas.
But in general our transportation costs are just -- the transportation costs around the industry are relatively high.
Getting gas out of the Barnett is quite expensive.
All that infrastructure had to be built and it eats into our differentials considerably.
Further gas transportation out of the wet gas plays or the liquids-rich plays can be expensive because the volumes are not all that high but the infrastructure still has to be built in order to get the oil supply.
And Monroe we did increase our expected differentials I think in our outlook as well to try and account for that.
And then in NGLs going forward right now they're low but we think plant turnaround season will bring them back up.
So long-term we see that we spend a lot of time studying NGL markets and believe that the growth in NGL demand will keep up with the supply generally.
But there will be times perhaps when NGL prices can be weak for a couple of weeks.
And we'll move next to Jeff Robertson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Aubrey in the oil part of the Utica play with the results you all anticipate later this year is that a candidate for some sort of monetization in the future either a joint venture or another one of these asset-level preferreds that you all have done? Yes definitely.
Jeff we really have 2 more JVs we could do in the Utica.
One is on the dry gas side and the other is on the oil side.
So I think ultimately we could do 3 there.
And the question at this time I don't think now is the time to do one on the dry gas side.
If someone approached us with the right idea we might look at it.
But in terms of -- and then on the oil side we just have to wait to be able to confirm that we've got a viable play there.
And we think we do but don't have enough wells yet to prove that.
I think if you look into 2013 and say okay well you've got another funding gap in '13.
As you continue to make this transition to liquids from gas where is that going to come from? I think the Utica is certainly another area that you can look at for us to do JVs that would create quite a bit of value for us.
Research Division</strong> Would a monetization there I guess it would then probably impact the liquids progression that you laid out which I think -- or will it? No.
It wouldn't Jeff.
I mean we really have very little contribution modeled from that area right now.
So I wouldn't -- these out-year estimates really do assume that we continue to meet our obligations.
For example in '13 we've already accounted for the fact that we'll be selling some assets.
So we think that we've got that all accounted for in both our short-term and our longer-term asset models.
Research Division</strong> Then secondly do your asset sale targets for this year include any other acreage monetizations like the Woodford deal you all announced a month or so ago? You've got acreage in I think you said the Woodbine and you all have had acreage up in the Williston and probably other areas as well.
Yes.
We're still working our Williston acreage.
It doesn't look like it's going to work for the Bakken or the Three Forks but we've got some other ideas there.
So I haven't given up there.
We're getting ready to complete a well in another formation.
DJ Basin has not worked for us in the Niobrara although the Powder River has worked quite well.
So those are 2 areas plus you mentioned the Woodbine all of which we've accounted for in our go-forward plans.
So again we tried -- sometimes you try to get in plays and sometimes you're successful with where you want to be and sometimes you're not.
So again as we look at the company going forward we want to be real simple about our goals which is if we own it we're going to be #1 and #2 in it.
If we can't get there then we're going to sell it and let somebody else consolidate their position.
We're big believers in the vertical integration and also to have scale in these plays because its an important point.
Going forward the company is going to look dramatically different than what it's looked in the last 7 years.
We've gone through a tumultuous time in our company's history and in the industry's history.
The industry has been -- 100 years of history has been completely remade in 7 years and we helped make some of that history and we participated in the rest of it.
But going forward we're not looking to take what we've learned and go overseas or go to Canada.
All we want to do is drill wells on acreage that we already own and to turn this into a high-margin manufacturing business and I think we can do that.
And it's -- to go retool your factories while they're running and while they're running today producing 84% gas when the gas doesn't make much money it's a daunting challenge.
But the alternative of sitting there and doing nothing and just waiting for gas prices to recover I know that's a losing strategy.
And I think our strategy will be a very winning strategy going forward and we just got to get through what's going to be a tough year this year and a lot of concern about our asset monetizations.
But of all things that we've done well over the years I think to deliver those have been certainly one of the things we've done best.
So looking forward to getting into a time of better gas prices but more importantly a more balanced strategy with regard to gas and oil and winnowing our asset base down to those things where we're only #1 or #2.
We'll take our next question from David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly in your prepared remarks you mentioned being free cash flow positive in 2014.
Can you give us a little bit more color around the assumptions that drive that? And would CapEx ultimately be the plug to achieve that commitment? I'm sorry.
Was what the plug Dave? Research Division</strong> CapEx maybe? Well sure.
That and if we had to sell an asset that would be the plug.
But right now we are anticipating around $7 billion of cash flow.
I think the oil price there is around $100 and I think gas prices are in the $5 range.
So that's not much higher than where the strip would be I think particularly once we get through the summer and work off a lot of this balance.
So you have prices today that are unsustainable.
And the good news about unsustainable trends is that they're unsustainable.
So this will get itself fixed in at least the next year if not closer in.
And so anyway that's our goal in 2014 and we'll toggle CapEx to get there.
If we have to have a little bit of an asset sale at some point we can do that as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's helpful.
And then just maybe following up on that in your forward guidance for 2013 gas price is now targeted around $3.50 an Mcf down from $5.
You talked a little bit about the 10% to 12% reduction and gas production between '12 and '13.
It seems like that might be a little inconsistent with that $3.50 number that's obviously contributing to a larger cash flow deficit versus CapEx that year.
Can you just give us color on why you think it's $3.50? Are you erring on the side of caution? Or is that firmly where you think you are? Yes.
No Dave that's exactly right.
We are erring a bit on the side of caution.
We try to true up pretty close to the strip.
I think actually now we're a little even below the strip for 2013.
We give a range of course from $3 to $4 on 2013 and try to pick something where the strip was approximately in the middle.
So we're pleased that frankly it's relatively conservative.
And it's a good reminder that there's a lot of variables here at play and we continue to try and be flexible around those variables.
And right now we're certainly focused on the fact that gas has been weaker than the entire market expected it to be in 2012.
And we're doing all the things that we think are prudent to aid in the recovery.
And we don't want to be optimistic about what gas prices are going to be in an improving play.
And so this is just being clear about what our expectations are and how we think about running the business from a flexibility standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just building on that a little bit Aubrey you mentioned that the rig count cut had gone from 100 rigs on the gas side down to a projected level of 12 and that's driving a 10% to 12% reduction in gas -- indirect production for '13.
Do you think that that's the kind of cuts we need to see across the whole industry in order to balance this out? Obviously we've seen 40-plus percent cuts at this point.
But how much deeper do you think they have to go to true up to the same sort of experience you're having? Well I think the question is complicated in the sense that you'd have to factor in a winter where you didn't burn a Tcf of gas which is 4% of all the gas consumption in the U.S.
just didn't happen.
So a lot of people in my opinion are looking at today's gas price and saying that that is a function of where gas supply and demand are at this price when the reality is this has put a Tcf of extra production or less demand into the market.
And as a consequence you've got to get rid of it.
And to do that you've got to lower the price.
And the good news is for producers I mean while this is a very painful year we're going to incentivize decades' worth of increased gas consumption as a result of what's happening this year.
So you just got to get through it and we'll get through it.
And my view is that we'll overcut on gas drilling and you'll probably be surprised by the rebound in pricing.
It's one of the reasons why I'm so in favor of LNG exports because I think it provides a relief valve.
I mean this kind of yo-yo back and forth on gas drilling activity is hard on the industry.
It's hard on its shareholders it's hard on service companies.
And ultimately it doesn't help consumers to stay concerned about it as well.
Whereas if you had an export capability when you had a winter like this you could just step up exports and have a balanced market.
So I think we're headed there and Shiner will get us there plus other facilities.
And so we view that we're taking the proper steps by curtailing production and slashing our gas drilling to a minimum and we're determined to be a big part of the solution to the gas market overhang that exists today as a result of the winter.
And we'll see what the summer brings.
Hopefully it'll be 120 in Boston and 140 in Houston and we'll get rid of this in the same way that it came to us.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
One last just quick one on the curtailments.
Looking at the levels for Feb and January that you've done so far and then looking at what you're projecting for the balance of the year it looks like at some point this year you're going to be reducing those.
Can you give us kind of a timing of that? Are you reducing them currently and then expecting you might have some more in the fall? Or how does that map out to true up to your guidance on that? Yes.
We're not going to disclose specifics on that.
No need to telegraph our plans to the market.
But clearly if you look at our previous guidance to now we anticipate the market cleaning itself up faster than maybe what we thought before we've seen pretty strong demand increase on the power side.
And so we feel like we'll be able to reduce some of our curtailments going forward but at this point have no interest in being any more specific than that.
I hope you'll understand that.
To clarify one point you made though we did not start curtailments until February.
We'll take our next question from David Wheeler with AllianceBernstein.
Aubrey on the finding and development costs you talked about $10 going forward.
I always think of the oil and liquids plays when I talk to companies and they give you the well costs and the EURs as something like a $15 to $20 F&amp;D.
Can you talk a little bit about why -- how you see the $10 F&amp;Ds? Is that sort of a benefit of the JVs carrying some of your capital? Yes.
David I think there are quite a few things embedded in that.
First of all we will go forward always be able to find gas.
And so I think our Marcellus finding costs are less than $1.
And Haynesville and Barnett if we ever get going there again are solidly just above that range.
So you always have contribution and then we're in some low-cost plays.
I mean if you look at the Mississippi finding costs you look at Eagle Ford finding costs we think on a blended basis that we should be able to be in that $10 per barrel number.
And remember Dave that's almost a 40% increase from where we are today so we are modeling that as we go forward those costs should jump up as more and more of our finding is related to liquids plays rather than gas plays.
Yes as well the margins.
But you mentioned cash flow.
I just wanted to ask you a couple questions on the long-term growth expectations.
You mentioned cash flow positive in '14 and cash flow on the order of $7 billion.
So is that also -- and you also mentioned a 10% to 15% growth rate for production and cash flow.
I think that was a longer-term number.
So is it the right way saying what theyre saying about this $7 billion of spending-ish should get you 10% to 15% growth? Yes.
I think that's the right way to look at it Dave.
And of course it is dependent on gas prices.
If gas prices never get above $3 or $4 then we would continue to need to make asset sales.
But in our models at the $5 gas and at $100 oil we're balanced in 2014 and that's our goal.
And we've been trying to get to a point where we have a business model that we think what we have today is defendable and sustainable.
But when it depends on selling part of what you find every year people will never be comfortable with signing on for that.
And so what people always want to do and this is proper is to look at what your operating cash flow is and your projected CapEx and look at whether you've got a deficit or if you've got a surplus at that point.
And that's where we want to get to.
But we could never get to that balance in 2014 if we were to remain a 90% natural gas producer.
So that's why all the heavy lifting in 2011 '12 and '13 to take the nation's second-largest gas producer and turn it into a top 10 oil producer.
Probably by the time we get done we'll be close to a top 5 oil producer in the country.
And I think people will be frankly astounded that we've been able to do it and been able to do it without increasing our share count and while still bringing our debt down.
Okay good.
And one last one for you.
Gas reserves you guys -- given the slowdown in drilling for gas wells you guys have I think 7 Tcf of 1P gas reserves that are undeveloped.
Do you anticipate some reduction in the proven gas reserves because of the slowdown in drilling? I don't think it will be slowdown.
We'll probably lose reserves through this year as the impact of the SEC pricing rolls through.
You remember we're now on a basically trailing last 4 quarters basis.
And so some of those PUDs certainly will be exposed to lower gas prices but they won't go away from a resource base and they will come back to us in 2013.
So the 5-year rule is we're fine there because again we project to get back after it once gas prices recover.
And we think the market will continue to need more gas as these demand initiatives kick in.
So if you see us lose reserves through the year it will be from the mandated SEC pricing not from having no expectation of being able to drill the wells.
We'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Following up on Dave Wheeler's question.
If we look at your 2013 guidance for proved well costs unproved well costs midstream capitalized interest and dividends i.e.
your ongoing cash outflows we get to about $10 billion at the midpoint.
And as you were just discussing it seems like you're assuming a much lower ongoing rate of spending.
Can you speak more specifically about where that flexibility is to reduce? And assuming that you do plan to maintain your 2013 rig count in future years shouldn't we see some upward pressure as a result of carried interest from JV projects -- different joint ventures rolling off? When you say pressure you mean higher CapEx? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
One would assume that your 2012 and '13 spending is benefiting from some of the carries from joint ventures; of course you're planning on consummating new ones.
But wouldn't we see as sort of carries roll off and you don't reduce your account that your CapEx pressure would rise? Yes.
Let's review where we are right now.
Steve help me on this.
But obviously our Haynesville carry is gone.
Our Barnett carry is gone.
Our Eagle Ford carry is gone.
Our Marcellus -- where are we on the Marcellus? It's done.
So we have no more left there.
So really the only carry we have left right now is the Utica and the Utica wet gas.
And the Niobrara.
And sorry we do have CNOOC carrying us in the Niobrara.
So actually as those continue to roll we'll actually be rolling on new ones I think for the Utica dry gas Utica wet oil -- not wet oil Utica oil and then also the Mississippian as well.
So actually we've calculated all that in.
Steve you might just hit us with some percentages.
I think in 2013 our budget is 30% Eagle Ford.
Is that right? Yes.
But that's actually greater than that.
Its almost 40%.
30% in 2012 about 40% in 2013.
39%.
And just to get through some -- glancing at our schedule for 2013 we're going to average -- I think we've got 11 rigs on the gas side and then just in plays like the Mississippi we're at 22.
The Utica all-in around 22.
And then if I add up the -- back up to around 33 in the Eagle Ford.
And then if I add up the Anadarko Basin you are at around 23 to 25 or so.
So basically when you look at the company in 2013 the Eagle Ford Anadarko Basin Utica will be the prime drivers of it.
So again a focus on almost all oil.
And based on what oil prices do based on gas prices do we'll modulate around that.
But the goal is to be at 2/3 in '13 and have our CapEx be right line with where our cash flow is.
I'm sorry that's 2014.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I guess going from kind of a $10 billion number to a $7 billion number is there anything specific beyond potential rig count reductions where that one could then -- people might not be focusing on as one-offs aspects of the 2013 budget? I mean the major thing Brian is just rig count.
In the fourth quarter we were running 172 rigs.
In the third quarter this year we're running 125.
That's almost a 1/3 decline.
So I think it should be pretty obvious where it's coming from on rig count.
And then we do think we'll see lower costs and the first quarter took the brunt of third and fourth quarter 2011 per unit cost.
And Steve frac costs and all that are down sometimes 25% 30% or more.
Yes.
I mean per unit costs are way down; efficiencies are going up because we've done some ramp-up.
But like in Eagle Ford we're just getting better every week.
And as you said on cost I mean we did have some overhang.
We had 20 frac crews running in gas plays at the end of the year and we have 6 today.
So its just that spend is just way down.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And separately as you move more into development mode and as your lease acquisitions are reduced do you anticipate needing any meaningful human capital shifts away from those focused on land acquisition? Or are there meaningful land and title-related issues that remain? Do you see any G&amp;A savings Yes.
Those numbers will continue to go down as they have.
We probably at our peak had over 5 000 people in the field some -- obviously most leasing but a lot doing work getting wells ready.
And so  and that's why you make them contract employee  or not employees but why they are contractors.
And we're continuing to shed in the field and will going forward because we'll be down in maintenance CapEx levels of I think not more than $500 million a year in 2013 and beyond.
You'll still need people in the field to make final deals with holdouts and to get damages settled and get abstracts built for title opinions and so forth.
But in terms of having the massive army it's not needed anymore because from my perspective and I think the rest of the management team shares this is we embarked on a journey 7 years ago to participate in the remaking of the industry.
And I think after this year it will have been remade.
And if you stayed with conventional assets you completely lost out.
If you started late to unconventional assets you're probably now forced to go buy them in the form of a company or in the form of an asset collection.
And I think going forward companies like us will be incredibly favored as we have these #1 and #2 positions in 11 plays and all we do is focus on driving returns higher from our existing assets.
And that's -- 95% of the people who have ever heard of us who have ever followed us have never known us in that kind of a mode.
And it's going to be a big surprise for people.
But it's going to be the absolute inevitable transition from this participating in the 7-year unconventional resource revolution.
And we're excited to turn the page.
This has obviously been stressful.
It's hard work.
It's not easy.
But the prize that we're after is to have the best asset base in the industry and I think we've achieved that.
And now from that best asset base in the industry our goal is to achieve the best returns in the industry.
And if we can do that I think that we are likely to be a company that will be a great performer for investors going forward.
Research Division</strong> One last very quick one did the increase in your 2013 liquids differential reflect a more cautious view on NGL prices or a greater percentage of NGLs in your mix? Mix stays the same just all about the problem with ethane prices that we're going to encounter from time to time.
We'll take our next question from Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for me.
In terms of the infrastructure side of the equation could you first provide some color on the possible volumetric commitments for takeaway from your dry gas plays? And does your current guidance for 2012 and 2013 ensure that you'll meet those commitments? And then the second question just along the lines of the VPP and the Eagle Ford could you provide any detail on how much production you may actually put into that VPP? No.
We're not ready to provide exact guidance on a VPP that hasn't yet closed.
So I'll just hold off on that until we have a completed transaction to talk about.
But I will just reiterate that it is baked into our guidance that we've provided today.
On the commitments related to minimum volumes et cetera those are detailed in our filings.
And we take all of that into account when we set our drilling schedule and expectations around how much we want to spend in wells that we want to bring online.
So at end of the day it can all be a part of a financial analysis.
We think that we will potentially have some payments to some of our midstream partners under those agreements.
But at this point we do our best to minimize them and timing will affect some of that.
And we'll continue to try to optimize that analysis as much as possible.
Very little in 2012; it would not come into effect really until our gas starts dropping in 2013.
And we'll do our best to keep those as close to 0 as possible.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that included in your LOE guidance just so that from a modeling perspective we can take that into account? It would come in in our differentials.
Next we'll go to Charles Meade Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
I guess maybe this first one for Nick just the nuts and bolts of the guidance on liquids for 2012.
As far as I appreciate it the liquid being guided down versus what we had for February 21 that's -- new in the Eagle Ford VPP.
Am I correct? We had a VPP in there but we had it later in the year.
So one of the big changes is the timing and it was smaller.
So we brought a lot of wells online there this year and so we've expanded the size of it as well.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And is the kind of the composition of the Permian transaction the same in both of those books? Well we did not have the Permian transaction baked into our forecast in our previous outlook so that's new in this outlook and it's a big driver in the change downward as the Mississippi Lime was not baked into our outlook the last time either.
Plus the Texoma sale of Exxon was not in it as well.
Right.
So there's really a lot more monetizations in there this time.
And at the last time we provided outlook we tried to be clear about what was not in there.
Even though it was announced intentions they were relatively early in their process and we did not yet have enough feel for exactly how those transactions would come together.
So we provided guidance without them and just tried to indicate how we thought you might think about framing those transactions in your analysis.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
That's exactly what I was after.
And the second piece looking at the presentation you guys put out today there's a lot of I guess really good new interesting detail on a lot of your plays but particularly on the Eagle Ford.
I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit about what you're seeing across your pretty wide acreage spread there if there's any parts of it that you're more excited about or parts that you're still left to be figured out and what you're seeing in well costs there.
This is Steve.
We're very excited about results really across our whole play.
Our science and engineering teams have done a good job on picking our acreage.
As we got into the play kind of late so we had a little better understanding when we bought our leasehold.
And so really it's working across our whole play.
So we're very excited about it.
We've had excellent results now and we run on 60 wells this quarter.
So certainly our knowledge base and history is growing and it's all looking good.
And now that we've kind of leveled off on rig count not ramping up our teams are really performing well.
And so as I mentioned our cycle times our drilling times are down about 20% already.
We've had some excellent service cost reductions like our stimulation pumping services latest bids there are down almost 25%.
So really good things are happening in the Eagle Ford.
And that's where we're putting our money.
Like I say next year it's almost 40% of our capital.
So it's performing quite well and we're very excited about it.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess what I was after there was that this is shallower than a lot of the other Eagle Ford.
And I know that for example in your Dimmit County acreages Anadarko has had some really great success there not so much with the eye-popping IPs but more just because the shallower and lower well costs or drilling complete costs.
But I guess you guys kind of don't want to disclose that at this point.
No.
And this is in Texas and on some big ranches.
And so we're drilling a lot of 6 000 7000-foot laterals there also.
So good wells but not necessarily super cheap because they're long laterals with lots of frac stages.
We'll take our next question from Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
We'll take your call Michael and we'd like to just kind of just wrap up the call with your call.
I know that there's probably several other questions left.
But please call John or myself later today.
But we'll go ahead and take your call Michael -- or your question.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
Just one for me.
Given the increased I guess dependency on NGLs consistent with the wider differential there there seems to be -- my understanding is there's a less robust hedging market around NGLs.
I guess are you seeing any developments in that market? Or does that fact kind of increase the risk profile of your growth plan in your perspective? Well I guess -- well first of all there's not a good way to hedge natural gas liquids so I agree with you there.
There's not much you can do except just kind of go with the market.
But we do spend a lot of time talking to fractionators and crackers and we believe that those folks are making the requisite investments that are needed to keep up with the supply growth.
And remember those are things that can be for the most part exported either in a liquid form or in a solid form.
So we're pretty confident that NGL values at the end of the day in the U.S.
will be supported by what's happening around the world.
But people need to recognize that for example in Conway Kansas NGL -- ethane prices are only 20% of what they are at Belvieu.
But that's going to get fixed.
And just like WTI to Brent is going to get fixed with the Seaway Pipeline and additional pipelines you're going to see the Belvieu to -- or Conway to Belvieu discount get fixed as well.
So that will happen in time.
And the U.S.
has the lowest feedstock for the petrochemical industry in the world.
And as a consequence of that you'll see plenty of demand pick up over time as well.
It would be delightful if there was a forward liquid market that we could hedge NGLs into but we can't.
So we'll continue to look at hedging opportunities for oil and natural gas when the time is right.
Jeff back to you.
Yes.
I think we'll go ahead and wrap up the call.
And if you have any questions please contact myself Jeff Mobley or John Kilgallon.
And our contact information is at the bottom of yesterday's earnings release.
Appreciate your attendance on the call and we'll talk to you at the next quarterly conference call.
And again ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Chesapeake Energy 2012 Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our conference call today.
I'd like to introduce the members of the management team that are on the call this morning.
We have Aubrey McClendon our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Steve Dixon our Chief Operating Officer; John Kilgallon and Gary Clark from the Investor Relations team and this is Jeff Mobley speaking.
Following the comments of the management team we will take your questions this morning.
And as Im sure you can understand we are not going to be able to comment on matters that are subject to litigation or other enquiries.
As usual our call will last one hour.
And now I'll turn the call over to Aubrey.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Despite experiencing the lowest natural gas prices in over 10 years during the 2012 second quarter we're pleased with the company's performance during this challenging time for our industry.
For example our production surged ahead by 25% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
However had it not been for our 330 million per day gas curtailment during the quarter Chesapeake's production would have actually been up a remarkable 36% year-over-year.
These production increases are obviously impressive but they are especially so for a company as large as ours.
Most importantly our oil production growth has really taken off.
Starting from a base of 26 700 barrels per day in January 2010 in the past 10 quarters we have increased our oil production by 201% to 80 500 barrels per day.
Our natural gas liquids production growth has been very strong too growing from 10 600 barrels per day in January 2010 to nearly 50 000 barrels per day in the second quarter an increase of 370%.
Taken together Chesapeakes total liquids production over 130 200 barrels per day has now risen to 21% of our total production mix and we expect this percentage to continue trending upward to 35% of total production by 2015.
In addition our second quarter liquids production was up 65% year-over-year and 15% sequentially.
Looking across the industry our year-over-year liquids production growth is the third best in the industry on an absolute basis and on a percentage basis it is the second best.
Chesapeake is now the 11th largest liquids producer in the U.S.
and we hope by 2015 to be knocking on the door of the top five liquids producers in the U.S.
You may recall that in 2010 when we had a very modest liquids production of about 30 000 barrels per day we set a goal of reaching an exit rate of 250 000 barrels per day of liquids production in 2015.
In 2011 we accelerated that goal to be an average of 250 000 barrels per day during all of 2015 rather than just an exit rate.
Given that Chesapeakes production already exceeds 50% of our objective it appears our ambitious target can likely be exceeded if present trends continue.
Turning to gas production I hope you noticed that we are now projecting a decline in Chesapeakes gas production of approximately 7% in 2013.
This will bring to an end our likely unprecedented public company record of 23 consecutive years of gas production growth which has taken Chesapeakes gas production from 10 million cubic feet per day in 1993 to more than 300 times that level currently and in the process has helped transform U.S.
gas market.
Moreover Chesapeakes projected 7% downward trend in gas production for 2013 will likely continue beyond that year and till such time that gas prices rise to levels that make returns from drilling in our gas plays competitive with returns available from drilling in our liquids plays.
In fact by year-end 2013 we expect Chesapeakes gas production rate to have declined by 430 million cubic feet per day or 14% from our peak rate of 3.4 Bcf per day in 2012.
Including the production of our non-operating working interest owners and our royalty owners the total decline in Chesapeake operated U.S.
gas production is likely to be around 800 million to 900 million cubic feet of gas per day.
And based on the substantial gas drilling rig count decline last week reached the 12 year low in the embedded high decline rate in the country's existing natural gas production base.
We believe it won't be long until the EIA-914 data shows U.S.
gas production on a confirmed downward trend.
We believe this trend of declining gas production could continue as long as gas prices do not permit gas producers to earn an attractive return on the investments necessary to finish developing the big new unconventional gas fields that led to America's greatly increased gas production over the past five years.
In addition the gas storage overhang is decreasing by an average of 2 to 4 Bcf per day each week.
If this trend continues and we experience a normal winter the U.S.
gas market could reverse its 900 Bcf year-over-year storage surplus established in April 2012 and lead to potential gas storage deficit in April 2013 of up to 900 Bcf.
As a result of this potential storage reversal rising demand for natural gas across the economy and likely production declines from many gas producers as they continue shifting their CapEx towards more profitable liquids production we expect gas markets to look very different during the next few years than they have looked during the past six months.
Chesapeake's management believes that based on the foregoing the U.S.
is likely in the very early stages of a multi-year up cycle in gas markets fundamentals and clear evidence of this new up cycle is readily apparent.
Gas prices have bounced strongly upward from $1.84 level set on April 19 which we believe marks the low in the four year down cycle that started in 2008.
Now Id like to return to Chesapeake's operational performance during the first half of 2012 we added proved reserves of 4.2 Tcfe through the drillbit or the equivalent of about 700 million barrels of oil equivalent at a very attractive finding and development costs of only $1.14 per Mcfe or [$6.84](ph) per boe.
Using current NYMEX strip pricing these added proved reserves at $10.2 billion of PV-10 value.
So to drive this important point home Id like to reiterate that in first half of 2012 we invested $4.7 billion in our drilling programs.
And from that drilling we created $10.2 billion of future PV-10 proved reserve value.
That means that for every one dollar that we invested in drilling in the first half of the year we found $2.17 of PV-10 proved reserve value.
In total that's a margin between finding costs and PV-10 value of $5.5 billion or about $7 per share of net asset value creation for our shareholders and that $7 per share value creation in just the first six months of 2012.
We believe that's an exceptional performance especially during the six-month period of very low gas prices.
I believe it is this metric above all others that showcases the effectiveness of Chesapeakes drilling machine at converting large blocks of undeveloped leasehold into very large quantities of proved reserves.
And we believe Chesapeakes performance can improve even further from this very high level as we progress from operations designs for new asset identification and capture to more manufacturing like operations approach designed to maximize efficiency and returns as we shift more fully into harvest mode.
We are now able to increasingly focus on developing just the core of the core areas of our plays taking advantage of first well infrastructure benefiting from economies of scale and development mode drilling efficiencies and also capitalizating on our substantial investments in human resources experience and technology.
In doing so we're now projecting to reduce our capital expenditures from 2012 to 2013 by $6 billion or about 45%.
Clearly we have listened to investor feedback on this important topic.
We also enjoyed a very successful quarter in advancing our asset sale.
As you know our planned asset sales for the year are designed to help us afford to increase our liquids production tighten the focus on our core assets while also reducing our long-term debt by 25% from year end 2010.
To achieve this important shift to a closer balance of liquids and natural gas production we have invested billions of dollars over the few years.
While low gas prices have made this shift to liquids focused production more difficult to achieve those falling gas prices also made the shift more urgent.
However we've now captured what we set out to capture in terms of our resource base this will now permit Chesapeake to be in asset harvest mode for a very long time.
As a result we anticipate much higher returns from our portfolio than youve seen in the past.
With regard to specific asset sale information during the second quarter we closed on $2.7 billion of asset sales bringing our total for the first-half of the year to $4.7 billion.
During the third quarter we anticipate entering an asset sales agreements of approximately $7 billion which would bring our asset sales to approximately $11.7 billion year-to-date.
We continue to identify additional assets to sell during the fourth quarter that will help meet our updated goal of $13 billion to $14 billion in asset sales for 2012.
In addition we are planning $4 billion to $5 billion of asset sales in 2013.
So by year-end 2013 I believe we will have completed sufficient asset sales to have met our objectives and to have transformed Chesapeake by shifting our production mix to more profitable liquids tightening the focus on areas where we have industry-leading scale and expertise reducing our debt by 25% reducing our total CapEx by $6 billion slashing leasehold spending and at the same time increasing our returns while continuing to generate production growth.
When we have completed our asset sales we anticipate Chesapeake will still retain core positions in 10 plays which we believe will be 10 of the 15 best plays in the country.
In each of those 10 plays Chesapeake will be either the number one or number two producer.
We are not aware of another company that will be number one or number two in more than three of these 15 best plays.
It has certainly been a long and arduous journey during the past seven years to build an asset base of this uniquely high quality.
But it was a very important and worthwhile endeavor to pursue at a pivotal time in the history of our industry.
We have appreciated investor support and their capital during this time which enabled us to complete this important phase in our companys history and position Chesapeake very favorably for the years ahead.
Id also like to express appreciation to my 13 000 Chesapeake colleagues who have continued to work hard and meet all of the challenges over the past few months.
Their talent and dedication will certainly be critical in helping Chesapeake reach its goals in the years ahead.
Finally as you know a lot has changed since our 2012 first quarter conference call three months ago.
I would like to especially thank our new independent Board Chairman Mr.
Archie Dunham and our newly reconstituted Board of Directors for jumping right in to get up to speed about our strategy and operations.
Their involvement should enable us to further sharpen our focus on driving higher returns from Chesapeakes assets while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
without a doubt these efforts should lead to improved operational and financial performance for years to come.
Ill now turn the call over to Nick.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Aubrey.
It was a very good quarter operationally and Im particularly pleased to highlight our strong production results.
we produced 3.8 Bcfe per day an overall sequential increase of 4%.
but more importantly we achieved a 15% sequential increase in liquids production.
this quarter we began reporting oil and NGL separately now that our NGL production reserves have increased to a material level.
Id like to highlight the liquids production volumes for the second quarter was about 62% oil and 38% NGLs and also that our rate of growth in oil production has substantially outpaced our growth in NGL production over the past year.
Were also very pleased with the continued strength in our oil price realizations which were 96% of NYMEX before the effects of hedging this quarter.
These high realizations are a direct result of the hard work by our subsidiary Oilfield Trucking Solutions in the Eagle Ford as well as enhanced pipeline connectivity out of the basin both of which contribute greatly to robust overall pricing.
Thanks to strong growth in the Eagle Ford 45% of our companywide net oil production during the quarter is now sold at a Louisiana light sweet correlated price versus 0% in the year-ago quarter.
looking ahead to 2013 we are currently forecasting flat year-over-year oil differentials but we do see potential for these to improve further.
You will see in our results that like many of our peers we reported challenging NGL price realizations.
however we believe these realizations are bottoming and expect them to improve moderately for a couple of reasons.
First we currently sell 50% of our NGL to Conway.
in 2013 we will access Mont Belvieu pricing for a portion of those volumes based on new pipelines and resulting basis compression.
Second industry wide rejection of ethane has kicked in which should begin to ease the ethane oversupply situation and prompt a modest increase in pricing.
Finally more propane export capacity is being developed along the Gulf Coast and East Coast which should begin to ease the supply overhang before year-end.
Coupled with the traditional seasonal balance associated with the onset of colder weather these factors should lead to better propane prices in the fourth quarter.
So we expect one more quarter of very weak NGL realization and then some relief in the fourth quarter both of which we have built into our guidance.
As a result of our strong production performance in Q2 we are increasing our production guidance for both 2012 and 2013 by approximately 110 Bcfe and 90 Bcfe in each year respectively.
After adjusting for the changes in expected production decreases associated with asset sales which are detailed in our outlook and adjusting for reduced 2012 curtailments our organic production guidance has been increased by approximately 75 Bcfe or 6% in 2012 and approximately 140 Bcfe or 10% in 2013.
On the CapEx front we are increasing our 2012 drilling and completion CapEx guidance by about 6.5% to $8 billion to $8.5 billion.
This is purely related to the high activity levels from year-end 2011 and the first half of 2012 that is still working through this system as we ramp down in most of our plays.
However as expected we have seen our month-over-month spending begin to decline in both June and July as our rig count has dropped pretty dramatically which Steve will detail for you shortly.
On the leasehold side we are increasing our 2012 estimated spend to $2 billion lowering our 2013 estimated spend to $400 million.
Given that about $1.3 billion leasehold spend year-to-date you can see that second half of 2012 spend is considerably less than the first half and the ramp down in activity is complete.
I might also add that approximately 50% of this leasehold spend was wrapping up our Utica leasehold acquisition efforts and the Mid-Continent contributed another 25% of the leasehold spend this year.
Even more importantly our 2013 drilling and completion CapEx has been reduced by $750 million to a range of $5.75 billion to $6.25 billion reflecting rig count reductions and efficiency gains from our core of the core strategy.
Im very pleased to point out that even with drilling CapEx about $2 billion lower in 2013 than in 2012 we are actually raising our 2013 production guidance by 7% due to strong performance in our liquids plays.
Also very notable in our 2013 CapEx spending forecast is the significant decrease from our prior outlook of $1.275 billion as a result of the sale of our Midstream business.
Total decrease in 2013 spending relative to our May 1 outlook is over $2.1 billion and again weve been able to increase our production guidance despite the significant CapEx reduction.
Our adjusted EPS for the quarter of $0.06 per share was negatively impacted by approximately $0.06 per share due to the effect of higher DD&amp;A related to price related revisions primarily from Barnett and Haynesville PUD eliminations.
If gas prices follow the current NYMEX Strip these reserves may be eligible to come back on our books in 2013 subject to our forecasted pace of drilling in those areas.
Id like to point out that we did not have a ceiling test write-down this quarter as we have built a full cost pool cushion as a result of our low finding costs and profitable asset sales in recent years.
As a full cost company we are not able to recognize gains in our income statement when we sell E&amp;P assets and are instead required to apply the asset sale proceeds and decrease of our full cost pool resulting in lower DD&amp;A rates over time.
We do expect to have a ceiling test write-down in Q3 as we substitute three more months of low 2012 gas prices to the trailing 12 month SEC calculation.
Id like to note however that as the 10 year average strip pricing our PV-10 is $5.2 billion higher than under the SEC methodology as shown on page five of our earnings release.
Youll also see in our release that weve added significant GAAP hedges for the second half of 2012 at an average price of $3.03 per Mmbtu.
While we dont view the current natural gas price strip as long-term sustainable we did see that there is an opportunity to take a significant amount of fall shoulder season risk off the table.
We remain quite bullish on gas prices in 2013 and beyond and accordingly have begun to reduce some of our previously written half year natural gas call positions.
We are making great progress on our asset sales and are looking forward to having more share of investors in the next month or so.
We will use the proceeds from our Permian and midstream sales to retire $4 billion term loan put in place in May and plan to apply the remaining proceeds from these sales and others to any outstanding balances on our $4 billion corporate revolver which was 100% undrawn at June 30.
We also have a very favorable call feature on the $1.3 billion notes we issued in February of this year which allows us to call the notes at par between November 15 of this year and March 15 of 2013.
Our goal is to exit 2012 no more than $9.5 billion in long-term debt which implies having nothing drawn under our $4 billion corporate revolving credit facility.
Going into 2013 this revolver liquidity plus the discretionary liquidity associated with the $1.3 billion of callable notes would give us $5.3 billion of available liquidity irrespective of the amount of our 2013 assets sales.
To be clear we intend to complete our 2013 projected asset sales of $4.25 billion to $5 billion and finish 2013 with no incremental net debt.
However we did not expect to be dependent on the 2013 asset sales program to meet our liquidity needs.
Lastly before turning to call over to Steve I want to point out that few weeks ago we posted an appendix to our investor presentation that included more detail on our VPPs midstream commitments and drilling and compression sale leasebacks.
There isnt much written about these items in the past few months and we wanted to make sure that facts were disclosed and available for all to analyze.
Please let us know if you have any questions regarding these new slides.
Steve? Thanks Nick.
I am very pleased and impressed with our operational performance and I am very proud of the efforts and the results that our team at Chesapeake has been able to deliver for our shareholders this year.
As Nick just outlined our strong liquids production growth during the second quarter has prompted us to raise our forward liquids production guidance outlook for the remainder of 2012 and 2013 to an average of 135 000 barrels per day to 170 000 barrels per day respectively.
These are increases of 12% and 9% respectively and are net of volumes associated with projected asset sales.
Id also like to point out that the majority of this growth will be in our oil production versus our NGL production.
We mentioned in our last quarterly call that in response to low natural gas prices we would reduce drilling in our dry gas plays from 47 rigs at the beginning of 2012 to just 11 rigs by year-end.
We have accomplished this goal and now plan to further reduce this amount to eight rigs at year-end.
At our high-water mark back in March 2010 we were drilling with 104 gas rigs.
As you might imagine this will have profound impact on our gas production.
In 2013 we are now projecting a 7% decline in gas production.
Moving on to the cost side of our business we are beginning to realize significant benefits from lower service costs and rising drilling efficiencies as we optimize our activity levels and move more fully into harvest mode.
Consequently we plan to drill the same number of net wells with fewer rigs operating and have accordingly reduced our projected yearend 2012 liquids rig count from 115 down to 93.
In the second half of 2012 and in 2013 we plan to spend approximately 85% of our drilling completion capital in oil and liquids plays.
Id also like to point out that I'm especially proud of our operating cost control efforts as we have ramped up our liquids production but yet we still expect per unit production expenses to remain relatively flat at approximately $1 per Mcfe for 2013.
Moving on to specific plays Id like to start with the Eagle Ford Shale.
It's attracting 28% of our capital in 2012 and 33% in 2013.
Second quarter net production from Eagle Ford was 36 300 boe per day which is a 58% increase over the first quarter and 615% year-over-year.
During the quarter we connected 121 wells or nearly one-third of our 337 total producing wells in Eagle Ford.
Importantly at June 30 we had 220 wells at various stages of completion and pipeline connection.
This provides a foundation for strong liquids growth runway into the quarters ahead.
In addition to rapid growth and robust activity levels the Eagle Ford is particularly exciting as we have experienced higher per well initial production rates an oilier production mix and lower well cost.
During the second quarter 31% of the wells we placed on production had peak rates in excess of 1 000 boe per day.
And furthermore 91% of our wells placed in production at peak rates in excess of 500 barrels per day and thats up from 81% in the year ago quarter.
Approximately 66% of our Eagle Ford production volumes during the quarter were oil as compared to 57% in the first quarter.
This is an important increase given the much higher margins associated with oil production relative to gas and NGLs.
These metrics help demonstrate that Chesapeakes Eagle Ford acreage is located in the core of the very best oil acreage in the western portion of the play.
With regard to cost control our completed well cost in the Eagle Ford are tracking 15% lower than a year ago and we expect further reductions in the months ahead.
This will enable us to target year end exit rate of only 25 rigs down from 28 currently and from a peak of 35 rigs three months ago.
Turning to the Anadarko Basin we have 4 key plays that provide a very strong base for continued liquids growth production the Miss Lime the Granite Wash the Cleveland and the Tonkawa.
At June 30 we had 51 rigs running in these plays and combined second-quarter net production of 88 100 boe per day.
Production mix in these four plays consist of 34% oil 23% NGLs and 43% gas.
Looking ahead to 2013 we anticipate these plays will comprise approximately 19% of our total production and that oil will continue to rise as a percentage of the production strength.
As Nick mentioned in his remarks we are working with others to jointly obtain infrastructure enhancements such that our NGL production from these areas will access more favorable Mont Belvieu pricing.
Also in the Anadarko Basin I would like to highlight our emerging Hogshooter Wash play which could become a meaningful contributor to our oil volumes over the next few years.
Our Thurman Horn 406H well which we first announced on June 1 has produced nearly 330 000 boe in its first 60 days on production almost 80% which is oil.
We are pleased to report this well has already generated over $16 million of gross revenue that paid out in one month.
We believe this has been the best onshore well in America in the past two months and may continue to grow even though as production starts to decline from extraordinary levels in the past few months.
And off-set well the Thurman Horn 4010H is now drilling ahead and will provide valuable information from this immediate area and its ultimate recoverability.
Just recall its approximately 30 000 acres perspective in the Hogshooter Wash and has identified 60 potential drilling locations.
11 wells are scheduled to spud in the play before the end of '12 so stay tuned for more updates.
In addition we believe the liquids rich Missouri Wash will also emerge as a key play for us down in the Texas Panhandle later this year and 2013.
In the Powder River Niobrara play weve finally cracked the code with numerous recent wells drilled in our newly identified over pressured liquids rich core area of 100 000 net acres delivering outstanding flow rates of more than 1 500 boe per day.
However due to limited gas takeaway infrastructure and processing facilities production growth in the Powder River Basin has not yet begun in earnest but we expect to see this area take off in 2013 and beyond as weve identified over 1 000 potential locations in the Niobrara core.
In addition we believe a significant portion of our overall 350 000 net acres of Powder River lease hold will be prospective for other formations such as the Teapot Parkman Sussex Shannon and Frontier formations.
Weve eight operated rigs currently running and plan to ramp this up to 11 by year-end.
I might add that CNOOC is paying for 67% of our drilling costs in the Powder River Basin and we project that that will remain to the end of 2014 as we earn our remaining drilling carried which was approximately 520 million as of June 30.
Ill now turn to the Utica Shale in Ohio where we are the leading leasehold owner driller and producer with 12 operated rigs currently working to evaluate our 1 million plus net acres.
We continue to delineate the wet gas window as well as HBP some acreage in the highly productive dry gas window towards the east.
The Utica oil window is being tested by Chesapeake on both an operated and non-operated basis as well as by other industry competitors that are beginning to report results.
Well completions are progressing at a quickening pace in the Utica as much needed midstream infrastructure begins to come into service.
Weve recently submitted the number of new wells to the Ohio DNR which will soon be posted on their website.
We remain very pleased with our results to date in the Utica.
To conclude my remarks I hope our report today makes it abundantly clear that we believe liquids rich plays are working exceptionally well and we expect drilling and completion cost to come down further or per well operating costs remain constant.
The Eagle Ford is our most active play continues to attract the largest amount of our capital while our bread-and-butter liquids plays in the Anadarko Basin the Miss Lime Granite Wash Cleveland and Tonkawa contribute to a steady upward trend.
In addition the Niobrara in the Powder River Basin should become a significant contributor to our liquids growth and we are looking forward to strong contributions from the Utica in 2013 and beyond.
and of course we retain exceptional upside optionality and leverage to potential 2013 rebound in natural gas prices that Aubrey outlined in his opening remarks.
As Nick detailed in the outset our corporate production guidance takes into account oil production losses from our expected 2012 and 2013 asset sales and also reflects our substantially lower capital budget for 2013 which is predicated on the reduction in average rig count from a 131 down to just 100.
despite these adjustments our strong underlying property base and enviable leasehold position still enables us to project positive production growth for 2013.
Operator well now take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And well go first to Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Wonder if you could connect a few dots with regards to the production and asset sales guidance that youve revised.
It seems like you expect less proceeds from asset sales in aggregate in 2012 to 2013 a greater negative impact on ongoing production resulting from these asset sales.
But as you highlighted both oil and gas production guidance was taken higher in the interest of trying to determine how much of this change in guidance is driven by performance versus restructuring.
can you just add a little bit of color on the moving pieces please? Jr.</strong> Hi Brian.
When you talked about less asset sales proceeds I think what you are really pointing to is that we took VPP off a while ago.
The increase in production relative to performance and unrelated to asset sales is about 140 Bcfe in 2013.
Does that answer your question? Yeah.
And I guess can you break since both oil and gas was impacted can you break that down or I know you highlighted Eagle Ford in Steve comments but are there major drivers on the oil side versus the gas side? Jr.</strong> There are and so its approximately 50-50 of that would be gas versus liquids and then the oil and NGL split would be as related to our base production so a little better than 60-40 to the oil.
Okay.
And then you highlighted your Eagle Ford backlog youve got a big backlog in the Marcellus what are your expectations for how this backlog will change and whats baked into that guidance for 2013? Brian this is Steve.
We are working part of that off and part of that was our overspend on capital running quite a few frac crews in the Eagle Ford to catch that up as well as Marcellus.
Got it.
Im sorry so do you expect that backlog to be eliminated by the end of next year or is that whats baked in? Jr.</strong> A big portion of our Eagle Ford backlog is normal course.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> So we dont expect it to be eliminated.
And the Marcellus backlog will stay with us for some time as we are doing some appropriate backlog reduction there but we are not exactly raising.
Thanks.
And if I could ask one more you highlighted in the release an expectation for may be a greater strategic update with the third quarter results can you just talk to whether you think that will be dramatically different versus this latest change in 2013? I do not expect it to be dramatically different no.
Thank you Okay.
Thank you Brian.
Well go next to Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Hi Dave.
Just following up on Brians real quick can you break out just specifically the Eagle Ford VPP and the implications that had on production guidance for 2012 and for 2013.
Jr.</strong> Well the VPP in and of itself was projected into our 2012 and 2013 production guidance.
When we pulled it out we had a reduction or an add back of about 30 Bcfe in 2012.
And again about 50% of that is  sorry I misspoke really when I gave the number to Brian  about 50% of that is oil 25% NGL and 25% gas of the Eagle Ford.
Of what we are adding back in the 140 Bcfe to 2013 that is performance related that's about 50-50.
Okay that's helpful.
I appreciate that and Jr.</strong> In 2013 the VPP impact was about 35 Bcfe.
Okay great.
I appreciate that and then are we to come to the assumption though that VPP for the Eagle Ford is completely off the table or is that something that comes back on the table as perhaps crude prices get a little bit better NGL prices get a little bit better any color on that would be helpful as we think about divestiture plans into 2013.
Jr.</strong> For now it's off the table.
Okay appreciate that.
And then one last one just on the Niobrara as you guys talked about cracking the code there can you talk a little bit about what's your thinking? The initial rates of return on those wells look like and maybe anything around well cost well design et cetera.
Yeah Dave this is Steve.
Its still pretty early there.
I think we have improvements that we want to make on our well cost but weve certainly found a sweet spot with this over pressured high in liquids basin center that were really hoping to get some production history and improve on.
Okay so to be determined over time is the best way to think of it? Its still early.
Weve got some I think some big improvements to make on the cost side.
Weve been still doing a lot of science in defining this sweet spot.
David Id just say that anytime when were in a liquids play the goal is to have greater than 50% rate of returns.
So if were for some reason not there yet on these production rates we intend to get our cost to that point.
So these are big wells and they can come in at 1 000 1 500 boe per day.
Weve got some gas production takeaway issues that are going to take a little bit of time to resolve we probably have some flaring issues associated with that but we really like where we are and of course weve got CNOOC paying most of the cost there.
So if you take into consideration the carry our returns from the Niobrara basically- well through the stratosphere when youre only paying for a quarter of your cost.
Great I appreciate the added color there.
Thanks guys.
David thank you.
We will go next to Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you good morning everybody.
I am going to try just a few quick ones if I may.
I dont know how much you can share about the assets sales at Aubrey but obviously you talked about 1.5 million acres in the Permian and youve give a range of values around that.
It looks like youve spilt into more than three packages.
Could you give any colors to order of magnitude whats still left on the table and I guess level of confidence that these are going to get done in the third quarter? Ive got a few follow-ups please.
Okay sure.
Doug when we started out we operated in both one entire package but also in the data room there were three packages there was the Midland Basin package which was the smallest and then there was the New Mexico Delaware Basin and the Texas Delaware Basin.
So weve mentioned we've signed a purchase and sale agreement with EnerVest weve mentioned that we have two acceptable bids on the other packages and we are negotiating purchase and sale agreements there.
So we would have loved to have been able to have all three come across the finish line by the end of the quarter but just werent able to get there but as Nick mentioned in his remarks we expect to get those completed in the next 30 days or so.
So Aubrey you are very clear in the release that you sold the producing assets in the Midland does that mean that there are still bunch of acreage undeveloped acreage still on the table? Yeah sure Doug.
we will have our remaining acreage in the Midland Basin to either develop ourselves or more likely to go through another process and look for a home for it there are lots of different ideas there private equity ideas there are other producers who were maybe intimidated by the size of the package and now when you take the production out of it I think we'll get some more kind of growth to the drill bit companies to come back and take a look at the acreage.
So weve got a lot of options there and its just kind of emerged in the last few weeks that well go through frankly a fourth process to finish up basinal exit from the Midland side of the Permian.
Okay I dont suppose youd care to comment on the $4 billion to $6 billion original range you gave relative to your what you think you're going to realize? Doug no we will continue to just let the process play out and as we have final numbers we will certainly share them with everybody.
Great.
My only other one is really on the activity levels particularly in the Mississippi Lime.
I guess similar kind of issue on the joint venture there any update you can share there.
But it also looks like youve lowered the rig count from the original planned to 18 versus I think it was 22 originally so is it just better well results and if so are you prepared to take the type curve up.
And just a general update on the Miss would be appreciated and Ill leave it there.
Thanks.
Okay couple of things there.
First of all we have reduced the rig count in the Miss Lime but we havent done so in all of our plays.
Thats just basically the scale down of our enterprise from  at the start of the year we were planning to run 200 rigs in 2013 and now we are planning to run 100.
So we certainly needed to scale down.
In addition in the Miss Lime we have decided to pursue [less just] (ph) pure HBP drilling and go into some core and some infill drilling there to help our returns and also to not get too far ahead of our infrastructure.
You can spend a lot of money on infrastructure across a big area there.
With regard to EURs last time I checked we havent taken them up although I noticed in what we call JV 1 area I think we are pushing 600 000 boe on the numbers that I saw but I dont think weve taken our pro forma up across the whole area.
Lets see JV is still continuing our discussions there is obviously private equity interest there there is international interest.
And weve also been approached for 100% exit some parts of the Mississippi as well.
So we will have lots of options there during the couple of months as we sort out what we want to do in that area.
But were certainly pleased with our results and obviously watching EURs creep up from other players in the area as well.
Thanks Aubrey.
Okay.
Doug thank you.
We will go next to David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Asset sales lets go back to that.
2013 or two questions one the third quarter does that include any assumptions for Mississippi Lime JV or is that pushed off for the time being? I dont believe thats in our third quarter.
Thats more of a fourth quarter expectation.
Okay.
So then if I think about 2013 what packages I mean what - the numbers you threw out for your asset sale target what do you have what would that be? Would that be  obviously Chaparral is still out there some of the services business but can you talk about big picture what would be included in that package? First of all its a much smaller number than weve been looking at this year.
So you are right that Chaparral is out there weve announced that we intend to sell a non-core asset like that weve mentioned that wed like to exit our investment in Frac Tech or FTS International at some point at well and then we have our service company IPO that we have put-off to 2013.
Beyond that Im not going to say but we have plenty of other bits and pieces of assets that we have that well be shaving off to reach the goal of $4 billion or $5 billion in 2013.
I would like to emphasize as Nick mentioned that from a liquidity perspective we dont have to sell anything next year but we certainly want to be able to continue to keep an undrawn revolver and associated with keeping our debt at the $9.5 billion level.
Okay.
And then one more question if I just look at what you did on the hedging side it looks like you are kind of implying the 3 somewhere in the 3 to 3.25 is kind of where you think gas topped out at least for the remainder of this year.
can you talk about is that the right read on what you did based on your hedging and if so can you talk about your projections for the second half of the year where you guys think gas? Sure.
Yeah obviously we had a nice run from the lows of late April to the above the $3 level.
And I think we just wanted to be careful and conservative about our budget in the second half of the year knowing that even with hot weather we were going to be working off a lot of storage overhang but there were obviously potential issues in September and October if storage got full it looks like were probably going to avoid the storage box now.
So were not intending to hedge anything at this point for 2013.
At todays levels we dont think theres any chance that you have a 2013 strip that stays where it is today if you have a complete reversal of the 900 Bcf overhanging its had in April of 2012 if you get the 900 Bcf storage deficits in April of 2013.
But clearly youre going to have to have higher prices in the $3 in 2013 to incentivize producers to come back.
So for us its got to be a pretty healthy price to pry our rigs away from our liquids production our liquids focused areas.
Steve remind me in 2013 how many rigs did we have allocated for dry gas? Looks like eight.
So I think yeah eight rigs out of the 100 in 2013 for dry gas.
So this has been a four-year down cycle and a lot of headwinds in the last four years.
but we think a multiyear up-cycle is now underway and frankly all the die has been cast Chesapeakes is on the table have been played and now its just a matter of physics and time for them to play out.
And just following up on those comments do you have any feel for and I realize its play specific but do you have any feel for where gas would have to get back to before you start to allocate away from liquids into - back to gas? No were not going to give out those kind of numbers its different from play to play.
But its a number and I think the industry has said that the number is probably a north of $5 before gas plays generate the same kind of returns which you can get from oil around $90.
The Marcellus may be a little bit lower than that but gas prices have a way to go to catch up to levels that equal the returns we get from our liquids-focused plays.
And well just wait for it to play out and weve got enormous backlog of gas drilling opportunities and well take advantage of those when the gas market pays us to do so.
All right thanks for the color.
Okay David thank you.
We'll go next to Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Hi good morning.
A couple of questions first in the Utica in the oil window can you give us some color how many wells you have now completed? And Aubrey in the past youve said Utica its at least its as good as the Eagle Ford.
Can you make that statement about if youre only looking at the oil window of the two plays? I dont think I would make that statement comparing the oil plays its just way too early on the Utica side and weve not focused much of our efforts in that area most of our acreage is in the wet gas and the dry gas side.
So were basically allowing other companies to work on the oil side; weve got plenty of acreage over there.
But right now we love what we see on the wet gas side and frankly the dry gas side is just as good as the Marcellus.
So were only drilling there though where we kind of have to for acreage exploration issues.
So we think when it's all said and done the wet gas in the Utica and the wet gas in the Eagle Ford are likely to be competitive.
But I'm not willing to compare oil and oil yet because I just don't have enough information out of Utica.
It goes without saying that we love what were doing on the oil side in the Eagle Ford.
Got it.
And the Eagle Ford youve mentioned I think 15% decline in cost can you say what costs are running currently? Jr.</strong> Little over $7 million right around $7 million per well.
Biju did you hear that $7 million? Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah that's all I have for now.
Thanks.
That's great thank you.
Well go next to Charles Meade of Johnson Rice Good morning gentlemen.
Couple of questions if I could go back to that divestiture question for 3Q you guys put in your headline for that section in the press release a target of $7 billion.
Am I right in that the two biggest pieces of that are number one the Midstream the remaining $2 billion Midstream sale to GIP and then the Permian sale I guess the question really is is there another big piece thats going add up to that $7 billion?  Just to clarify Charles the $2 billion sale to GIP that actually occurred in the second quarter so it's done.
What is projected in the third quarter is the remaining part of our midstream business which is housed in an entity called CMD that's our 100% owned Midstream.
What got sold in the second quarter was CHKM now remain a CMP I think access.
So those are the two headline events in the third quarter and of course we will have some miscellaneous assets to sell off.
Okay.
Great and then going back to the Utica could you tell us what the lateral links were for those 28 wells that you highlighted in your focus area? I dont know if weve got it exactly but we can go ahead and tell him what on average we do there.
Little over 5 000.
Got it.
And the TVD I know it kind of  it goes down as you descend into that gas window.
But in general whats the kind of that TVD range for the wet gas down to now? 6 500 to 7 000.
Got it.
One of the attractive parts of that of course is we are now seeing wells get down to TD in 15 to 18 days something like that so one could all the way drill the horizontal out.
So as we really move into manufacturing mode there one of the advantages that the Utica will have over the Eagle Ford and some other plays will be that its a shallower and a bit cheaper.
Well and thats exactly you knew exactly what I was trying get to  are you prepared or do you have anything youd share for what you think a development mode will cost you there? That Steve can make a core estimate.
[Its more like] (ph) down to about 6.
Got it got it.
And then one other question for you Aubrey is there anything that you can share about what the focus of some of the new Board members has been or what area is their attention has been drawn to or what questions that are top of mind for them?  Sure.
Weve only had one meeting to date.
We just finished it last week.
So it was a  we decided to have a mid-cycle meeting to get everybody acquainted with each other and they are looking at the things that youd expect them to look at the big topics for us which are asset sales and CapEx and efficiency of our operations.
So thats where the needle gets moved and thats obviously where their level of interest is.
Great thank you very much guys.
Okay Charles thank you.
Well go next to Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> So a quick follow-up Aubrey just on the Utica maybe for you or Steve just wondering on those wells now are you still I guess in that kind of wet window that you're drilling in letting most of those wells still rest after you complete those or what are you doing on that front? Yes sir we are - most to these will come on - have been waiting on pipeline really for the most part but yes there have been having some set time.
Inc.</strong> So you still believe I mean  and is that kind of really going on - on a go forward basis Steve youll continue to do that even if you have the takeaway youll continue to do that to a degree? Neal it ranges from dry towards liquids in the heavier oil and liquids we think more benefit from it.
So it will be a variable.
Inc.</strong> Got it got it.
And then just wondering on the Marcellus you mentioned about the gas rigs you are going to let go.
I think in the press release so you talked about in the Marcellus having at least still six rigs going for dry gas the reminder of 12.
So would you let some of those go after 12 is that what that is implying or what will you do in that dry gas Marcellus window?  Yes we think we can get down to four rigs there and hold our key acreage.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
And then just lastly you just had a small increase I noticed on the acquisition of unproved properties.
Just wondering is that just bolt-ons or what was just the small add-in guidance on that part? Yes it's basically just accounting for the fact that we had to clean up a number of transactions in the Utica.
I think Nick may have mentioned that about half of our leasehold spend for the 2012 is targeted for the Utica I think another 25% for the Anadarko Basin including the Miss Lime and 25% spread everywhere else.
so its dropping very dramatically.
in fact I think our first quarters leasehold spend was about $955 million and dropped to $375 million or so in the second quarter and well continue to drop off quite remarkably dramatically rather which I guess will be remarkable.
But were targeting for 2013 a $100 million a quarter.
and we think that maintenance mode will be even lower than that.
Id love to say we could get to a lower number than that in 2013 well certainly try to but theres still a lot of little holes out there particularly in the Utica and often in the Marcellus as well and it jeopardizes a much bigger investment when you fail to go out and kind of complete your unit.
but in the Eagle Ford and most of our other plays really down to almost zero in terms of additional leasehold buys.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks guys.
Solid quarter and great progress.
Okay great thank you Neal I appreciate the support.
Well go next to Bob Morris with Citi.
Good morning.
Steve a question on the rigs youre going to drop down to 100 rigs at year-end and thats what youre planning to hold that for next year.
as I recall 100 rigs is what Chesapeake own [at Ryder] (ph) under sale leaseback.
So at that point do you expect youd just be running your own rigs and to drop out third-party leased rigs then by year-end? Well still have some third-party rigs.
and so well have to stack some of our older mechanical rigs.
Has Nomac tried to lease some of your rigs to third parties at this point or do you think you might be able to do that in the future? Yes sir.
We have I think 10 or 12 lease to others right now.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Bob thank you.
Well go next to Jason Gilbert of Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning guys.
Most of mine have been asked already.
I was wondering I think you had mentioned in the past your desire to do a couple more JVs in the Utica just wanted to hear what your latest thinking was there?  Certainly Jason well do at least one in the dry gas part of the play and well wait till 2013 though to do that when weve got better gas prices.
So that is certainly one of the assets sales that we have in mind for 2013.
On the oil side it just remains to be seen if the results allow us to do that and we also have a couple of other JV ideas out there.
So we think the JV market is still strong and it's been supplemented by the interest of private equity players during the past year or so.
Its probably been the biggest change in the market out there in the past year which is the arrival of frankly several tens of billions of dollars of assets that private equity players have brought to the table.
Thanks.
And then my second one was on the spending guidance increase you mentioned in the comments that were just spillover from late '11 and early '12? Just sounds like inertia really.
But if I remember correctly you had reiterated your guidance as recently as July in the investor presentation which maybe suggests to me that you don't always have a lot of visibility with this.
And I was just wondering if you can say with confidence that these spillover costs are now behind you and that were over the hump on the CapEx increases.
We really think they are and in terms of affirmation in July I dont remember that so much other than we only change our guidance once a quarter.
So in July it would have been what we put out in April and so we kind of just live with it till we have a earning into the quarter earnings release like we have now.
So this is obviously something that we scrub very hard were not happy about the increase and really determined that with our new numbers that they are numbers that we can not only meet but to live with them.
Great thanks.
Ill turn it back.
And well go next to Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Hi Scott.
So on the 100 rigs youre going to be running in 2013 how many of those do you think are going to be HBP versus drilling for economics?  First of all Id say that even if its drilling to HBP acreage I mean it will be an economic activity but I think I understand your question certainly well that  is the second or third well in the unit and is likely to be better than the first well.
So Steve do you have an estimate of that or not?  Fairly small percentage we are focusing in the core like you said HBP-ing within the core but not necessarily multiple wells within the unit.
So as most of your I guess  if you look at your leasehold how much do you think with the reduced rig count is I guess the term would be at-risk for exploration or is some of the stuff that could expire in that stuff that could be potentially up for an asset sale and/or you may not want it anyway?  I think thats really the right way to think about it.
Scott one of things were doing is not only selling assets that are not core but also looking at our 10 core areas and determining what we just dont have the capital to get to and what we dont have the time to get to.
So I think you will see us sell some of our leasehold in plays that are absolutely core to us and over the next six months or so as we recognize that we have acreage that may fit other companies better or we have acreage that would expire unless we went and drilled it.
So as we pull in our horns and focus and concentrate our drilling in areas that are going to generate the highest returns its a very different strategy than what we viewed for last few years which is to lock down this asset base that weve taken from being a temporary asset base subject to exploration to a permanent asset base.
And so for example nobody today thinks a whole lot about value from the Haynesville but weve had something like 7 000 wells to drill in the Haynesville that are HBP so that are future drilling opportunities on acreage thats been HBP.
So thats - I dont think its fully baked in our forecast going forward the increases in efficiency that are going to be generated and certainly the increases and returns on investment as we continually move towards a program of drilling wells that will be on acreage thats already HBP rather than on acreages thats just sitting out there to be drilled at some point.
So stay tuned for other areas or parts of our core areas that we might be willing to let the rest of the industry take a look at rather than spend our own capital chasing those opportunities to HBP further acreage.
Okay I appreciate that.
And one follow-up just so I understand thats right.
So when you look at your drilling CapEx in 2013 being down $750 million I mean when I look at that how much is related to just better drilling efficiencies versus a planned further reduction to rig count versus I guess changes in planned asset sales or divestitures?  And there is certainly some associated with efficiency and hopefully some cost savings as well as obviously the price of fracs have come down in other parts of the drilling and completion operation but mostly it just drop of rigs as we move down to 100 rigs for 2013.
Okay so most of the stuff you directly could control in theory? Were not saying that were going to assume there is a 15% efficiency factor and that allows us to drop our CapEx by 15% or something like that; its really related to rigs and if were able to drive efficiencies higher if we are able to drive cost lower than that hopefully will be icing on the cake for us.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Scott one other thing I might  mentioned as you lower your cycle time you can drill more wells with the lower number of rigs so for example in the Eagle Ford as we drop I think Steve were scheduled for 25 in 2013.
Is that right? No.
22 sorry.
22 and we are already seeing lots of wells in the teens and so I hope that that can go down even more 22 rigs (inaudible).
so the point is that as our efficiencies get higher we can reduce the number of rigs and our CapEx may not go down but your return on that investment will go up as you get more wells drilled with the same number of inputs.
Got it thanks guys.
Okay thank you Scott.
We will go next to Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Good morning guys.
Just a couple quick questions from me just a quick follow-up on the Eagle Ford question.
Could you give us an idea I think in the second quarter you guys drilled around 121 wells in the Eagle Ford versus the first quarter of 62.
Whats the  I guess the expected run rate over the next few quarters in terms of completions in the Eagle Ford? And then I guess kind of once you get down to 22 rigs in 2013 what would be a normalized quarterly well count for you there? Matt this is Steve.
It should be similar to this low 30s per month [turn] (ph) in line base.
The way Id like to think about Matt during the last quarter we completed a Eagle Ford well every 18 hours and going forward I think we can probably do better than that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Perfect.
And then just in terms of the wells you put in the release obviously a lot of detail on kind of the larger category of wells here with I think peak IPs of around 500 barrels a day equivalent.
Could you give us an idea of roughly what the 30 day rates look like there and maybe just your new expectations around what the EUR would be? I think Steve can help you with both of those.
Matt while he is looking do you have anything else? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Yes sure just two final questions from me.
On the CapEx side just curious on 2013 if you were to at high enough gas price desire to flat line your gas production next year what sort of capital increase would we need to see on your development budget to get to that level of flat production? Thats a good question Matt.
I dont have that right now but we can certainly dial it up for you.
Again it would take quite a bit stronger price than whats in the forward curve right now for us to be interested in doing that but clearly we have the assets to do it now and have the capability to do it.
And remember this is a issue where I think a lot of investors and analysts perhaps think about it in the abstract or in a vacuum which is whats a gas price that gives you a reasonable rate of return on a well in the Marcellus or Haynesville or Barnett.
and thats only part of the equation.
The other part of the equation is capital is finite obviously.
and so you have to not only generate an attractive return but you have to generate return as competitive with your other returns.
So its not do we make money at $4 gas or $5 gas its do we make as much money drilling the gas well at that price compared to what we make drilling an oil well at $90 a barrel.
And so thats I think a part of the equation thats missing for most peoples analysis of the gas market going forward.
Steve do you have anything to follow-up with on? Yeah I mean we actually break the Eagle Ford in multiple pro formas because were wet gas [oil and the shale oil] (ph) but the blend is about 9 000 barrels for first month.
Anything on NGLs or gas? we dont produce a whole lot of gas out there.
I let him continue to look and we can come back and given that were kind of over our hour I don't know how many folks are left to answer your questions but were - in courtesy to everybody were going to take two more questions and then if for some reason you didnt get a question asked and answered please dial it in to Jeff John or Gary and theyll get back to you.
Operator well take two more please.
Yes sir.
Well go next to Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research I had a question on the Utica two-part one is that it looks like you had a well producing in the Tuscarawas County which is pretty oily.
any color on that would be appreciated.
And also ignoring land retention where would you put that last rig in the Miss Lime or in the Utica? Thats tough man.
First of all good morning to you lets see I would say right now Carroll and Columbiana counties are tough to beat.
On the Utica Alfalfa and Woods are tough to beat in the Miss Lime.
So Im not going to declare a winner between those two but I would say that each of them has a little bit of HBP work to be done in those counties probably more to be done in Carroll and Columbiana than in Alfalfa and Woods.
But thats a  we will go back and play with that a little bit but both of those are very very attractive areas and hopefully wed end up being very competitive with any  for any incremental capital.
And that Tuscarawas county well.
Yeah Im not  do you have a name for it? Yeah Ive got that they came on about 227 barrels of oil a day and 1.3 million.
Whats the name of the well? Gribi.
Yeah.
Okay.
And are you guys looking to get any new plays or is that pretty much done? Were pretty much done.
We have an acreage position in an area that weve not talked about.
Probably that Ive mentioned a little bit about a year ago.
We still continue to poke around there.
Its pretty cheap area there and we will get some wells drilled or tested in the next three to six months and see if its something worthwhile or not.
But we havent spent much money there to-date and if it becomes a core area for us great if not we will be happy with the 10 that we have.
Thank you.
Okay.
Bob thank you.
And we will take our final question from Joe Magner of Macquarie Capital.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just any update on the divestiture efforts for the DJ and Utica properties that were announced over the last couple of months? I dont think so but those would both be pretty  well DJ would be modest I think given our lack of success in that area and the industry hasnt done well outside of Wattenberg.
So well get what we can there and move on.
Utica [French] (ph) process is underway.
Well have something to say there in the next couple of months as we definitely will have successful leasehold sales in that area.
And the Utica is clearly an area of intense interest for the industry.
Given our first mover status there a lot of people who want to establish positions come to see us.
So we look forward to sharing some good news there later.
Okay.
And along the lines of Utica can you update us just on takeaway capacity what we might expect to see some of those  I guess wells could turn to sales and production start to ramp up there? Mostly in 2013 but Nick if you want to address that or Steve you want to address that weve got a big program there underway and kind of lost track with all the different entities involved but you want to try and put that up? Jr.</strong>  Well I dont have any real specific dates other than there is one big infrastructure project underway and were have it all mapped out and looking forward to bringing on more wells.
Weve been trying to focus our drilling as close to existing pipelines as we can and so we are doing our best to minimize it in the meantime but there is lot of infrastructure added to the Utica.
Yeah processing there is going to be NGL takeaway adds in their projects one that go to Philadelphia projects one that go to Belvieu.
So we are going to be a foundational shipper likely in any project that originates from the Utica.
So there is going to be plenty of liquids there and we think plenty of opportunities to get the Belvieu pricing or Belvieu equivalent pricing over time.
Okay.
And just one last one.
Nick any anticipated amount for the ceiling test write down in the third quarter and could you provide us with what I guess where the cushion sits (inaudible)? Jr.</strong> No anticipated amount there is too many in and outs between now and then to give a number even within a range.
So Id like to hold off on doing that right now.
And the cushion is pretty significant in my view but I don't think were prepared to disclose what that is today.
All right that's all I have thanks.
Okay Joe thanks for your questions.
And thanks to everybody else.
And again if you have additional questions send them in to our IR team they will get back to you shortly.
Thanks again.
Bye bye.
This does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate everyone's participation today.
Good day and welcome to the 2012 Q3 Chesapeake Energy Earnings Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our 2012 third quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me today is Aubrey McClendon our Chief Executive Officer; Steve Dixon our Chief Operating Officer; Nick DellOsso our Chief Financial Officer; as well as John Kilgallon and Gary Clark as part of the Investor Relations team.
Our prepared remarks this morning should last about 15 to 20 minutes and then well turn it over to Q&amp;A.
Aubrey? Good morning.
We especially appreciate those of you who are joining us from the Northeast Corridor today.
We appreciate the effort you are making to be with us this morning and we hope your lives get back to normal as quickly as possible.
Turning to the 2012 third quarter I would first like to highlight Chesapeakes strong operational achievements during the quarter.
Our daily average production was up 24% year-over-year and 9% sequentially.
We believe both measures will lead our large cap peers and rank as one of the very best operational performances for companies of any size in our industry.
Especially important is the steady transformation of our asset base from an exclusive focus on natural gas three years ago to a focus that today and in the future will remain more balanced between natural gas and liquids production.
As evidence of the magnitude of our transformation during the third quarter our daily average liquids production was up 51% year-over-year and 10% sequentially.
Those liquid growth percentages would have been even higher at 57% and 13% respectively if we hadnt rejected 467 000 barrels of ethane processing during the quarter because of very low ethane prices especially at Conway Kansas.
Even more significantly our daily average oil production was up 96% year-over-year and 21% sequentially.
We believe its very important for our investors to recognize that Chesapeakes liquids growth story is primarily an oil production growth story more than an NGL growth story.
Obviously not all liquids are made alike and so we are certainly focused on increasing oil production more than NGL production.
Starting from just 33 000 barrels per day of liquids production three years ago in the 2012 third quarter we produced an average of 143 000 barrels per day of liquids a more than fourfold increase in just the past three years.
We believe we remain on track towards achieving our goal of at least 250 000 barrels per day of liquids production in 2015.
I would also like to emphasize that our oil production growth is not from a single basin.
We are seeing significant oil production growth not only from our biggest liquids play the Eagle Ford but also from eight other liquids-rich plays: the Cleveland Tonkawa Granite Wash Hogshooter Niobrara Mississippi Lime Marcellus and Utica.
We believe Chesapeakes multi-play liquids growth story is unique in our industry and its diversity helps greatly de-risk our future growth plans.
I would next like to highlight Chesapeakes continued progress on our asset sales program.
As indicated in previous announcements we are working hard to complete our big midstream asset sale by year-end 2012 and are also hard at work on sales of non-core portions of our Northern Eagle Ford and Mississippi Lime properties.
Our goal remains to reduce the companys net long-term debt to less than $9.5 billion through value-creating asset sales and to keep our debt levels no higher than $9.5 billion in the future.
We have multiple sale  asset sales initiatives underway and we look forward to sharing additional details with you as we complete our two-year asset sales goals of $17 billion to $19 billion by year-end 2013.
Through these assets sales we will have trimmed our portfolio back to just core of the core in virtually all of our plays.
And that core of the core will have become virtually all HBP in most of our plays by year-end 2013.
This strategic transformation into our asset harvest phase should lead to greater operational efficiency which you are starting to see more clearly in todays results.
And much higher returns on capital than we have experienced during the past seven years of new play identification and capture.
Turning to natural gas markets much to the amazement of most observers the market has overcome an almost 900 bcf storage surplus from just seven months ago to a year-over-year storage surplus today of just about 120 bcf.
We believe the small remaining storage overhang should soon go into a year-over-year deficit a quite remarkable turn of events from this past spring.
Furthermore gas rig count has continued dropping almost every week.
Winter weather patterns are shaping up to be very different than last winters exceptionally warm winter.
Natural gas demand is growing across all sectors of consumption.
And coal to gas switching in the electrical generation market is proving stickier at higher gas prices than many assumed it would.
In short after battling natural gas headwinds driven by relentless supply growth for the past four years we now expect to enjoy a multi-year rebound in natural gas prices driven by demand growth that is likely to be equally relentless.
This move from a multi-year trend of natural gas headwinds to a multi-year period of natural gas tailwinds will have many positive implications for Chesapeake and its investors.
To highlight just how much we will benefit from strengthening natural gas markets Id like to remind you that in 2013 every $0.10 per mcf change in natural gas prices roughly translates into $100 million of additional EBITDA.
In conclusion we look forward to the completion of our 2012 2013 asset sales and more focused drilling activity that will lead over time to a balance between drilling capital expenditures and operating cash flow as we transition into our asset harvest strategy from our previous strategy of new play identification and capture.
Ill now turn the call over to Nick.
Thanks Aubrey and good morning.
Q3 was an outstanding operational quarter for Chesapeake as Aubrey noted featuring strong production growth particularly in our liquids plays.
Additionally costs across the board were lower for the quarter with the one exception being DD&amp;A which Ill address shortly.
Id like to point out that our impressive production and cost performance during the third quarter resulted in adjusted EBITDA of $1 billion which was more than 15% above analysts consensus estimates.
Id next like to discuss our announcement yesterday morning of our $2 billion term loan being offered to debt investors today.
This loan will provide the company with additional financial flexibility through Q4 of this year and into next year as we balance the timing of asset sales and other balance sheet considerations.
Importantly it will provide excess liquidity ahead of the winter the presidential election and the potential year-end fiscal cliff.
Debt market conditions remained very strong so we expect this loan to price at attractive terms relative to our current debt structure.
Our $4 billion May 2012 term loan which serves as a bridge to asset sales earlier this year has been paid down to $1.2 billion following the completion of our Permian sales and the proceeds from this new term loan will fully repay and terminate the May 2012 term loan at closing.
On the asset sales front projects are progressing quite well.
We continue to work towards the completion of our midstream sales and expect those to be completed before the end of the year.
Were very pleased with the deal structure that weve created whereby our midstream needs will continue to be met by the same talented teams that have been responsible for the largest and most rapid development of midstream infrastructure in the unconventional resource industry.
The contractual relationships we have with CMD and Access Midstream Partners are mutually beneficial and we are pleased to continue those relationships through the sale of our 100% interest in CMD.
In addition to midstream our other asset sales are progressing well with a few other new transactions currently in negotiations.
You may have noticed that we reduced the content of our outlook on schedule A at the back of our earnings release and are not currently providing guidance for asset sales for the remainder of 2012 and in 2013.
Going back about a year ago we added this incremental information on those subjects in part because we expected asset sales to provide funding for the majority of our drilling program.
As we approach the end of 2012 and look forward to 2013 we expect to continue our announced asset sale goals as previously identified but also expect to have sufficient visible liquidity on hand to cover the amount of any funding gap in 2013 as we complete our asset-based transformation and reduce our debt to no more than $9.5 billion.
The previous guidance we had around the overall magnitude of asset sales in 2012 to 2013 of $17 billion to $19 billion is still consistent with our plans in Q4 2012 and 2013.
However I will note that it is possible that some of the oil and gas sales transactions scheduled for Q4 could actually close in Q1 2013.
We remain absolutely committed to reducing our net long-term debt to no more than $9.5 billion.
And if not achieved by December 31 2012 we expect to accomplish this number one goal in early 2013.Our changes to our outlook also include a 1 million barrel increase in projected oil production for 2012 which reflects better than expected production results and is aided by minor delays in the previously anticipated completion of asset sales.
These delays in closing are also the primary contributor to increasing our drilling and completion CapEx guidance and our outlook on schedule A by $250 million on the high end of our previous range.
However Im pleased to report that we were able to offset that increase by an equal $250 million decrease in projected leasehold spending.
Also as a result of the higher oil production improved gas prices and high priced oil swaps that we added during the third quarter we are increasing Chesapeakes estimated 2012 operating cash flow by $575 million from a midpoint of $3.225 billion to $3.8 billion.
We are also increasing our 2013 operating cash flow projection by $500 million due to an increase in expected NYMEX gas prices from $3.75 to $4 per mcf our strong oil hedges and a projected decrease in lease operating costs.
Please note that this combined increase of $1.1 billion in projected operating cash flow in 2012 to 2013 compared to our projection 90 days ago also comes with no projected increase in combined leasehold and drilling CapEx for 2013.
Back to our earnings release we did as expected and discussed last quarter have a non-cash ceiling test write-down this quarter.
The full after-tax charge was $2.2 billion and also included the evaluation of unproved leasehold that we will allow to expire under our more focused drilling program on the core of the core of our asset base.
As we noted last quarter focusing on the core of the core is a natural part of our shift to what weve been calling harvest mode and will result in improved near-term and long-term returns on capital as well as a more balanced overall cash flow profile.
With regard to proved reserves continuing decreases in natural gas prices in each quarter of 2012 have led to price-related downward revisions of 4.9 tcfe year-to-date.
Price-related revisions accounted for about 90% of our total proved reserve revisions.
On the positive side of the ledger we added 3.9 tcfe through the drillbit year-to-date resulting in a net decrease of 2.6 tcfe or 14% since December 31 2011 inclusive of production.
This is against a backdrop of SEC trailing 12-month pricing for natural gas reserves falling 31% to $2.83 per mcf.
The ability of the company to replace 3.9 tcfe of proved reserves in the face of a 31% decrease in natural gas prices speaks directly to the success of our shift to a more balanced oil and gas asset base and the success we have with the drillbit this year in our newer liquids-focused plays.
As a reminder this non-cash ceiling test is excluded from our covenant calculations under our revolving credit facility.
One final note on this topic is that the timing of the two Permian sales not closing in the third quarter resulted in our DD&amp;A rate temporarily spiking to $2 per mcfe during the third quarter.
We expect this rate to settle back down following the completion of those sales and anticipate 2012 and 2013 DD&amp;A of $1.65 to $1.85 per mcfe as shown in our outlook on Schedule A.
Moving on to the cost side of our business we experienced a very nice sequential decrease in production expenses from $0.97 per mcfe in the second quarter to $0.84 per mcfe this quarter a decrease of 13%.
Across the board both in the office and in the field were generally seeing very good unit cost control trends and economies of scale as we ramp up liquids production.
Accordingly we have reduced our 2013 production cost guidance in Schedule A to $0.90 to $1 per mcfe from $0.95 to $1.5 per mcfe.
I would also like to point out that we saw a nice sequential downtick in G&amp;A expenses per mcfe before stock-based compensation from $0.39 per mcfe in the second quarter to $0.34 per mcfe in the third quarter a decrease of 13%.
Our drilling and completion CapEx for the quarter was $2.3 billion and has started to decrease significantly in September and October.
The peak this year was 165 operated rigs active in January and we were still running on average of 160 rigs in April.
We are now operating only 89 rigs which represents a year-to-date decrease in operated drilling activity of 46%.
The lag time between rig ramp down and the decrease in CapEx is now largely over and we are starting to see a material reduction in our monthly CapEx since our September drilling and completion CapEx was 18% lower than August and October and November are showing significant incremental decreases as well.
Our leasehold CapEx is down significantly this year as we previously noted.
I would like to try and clear up a bit of confusion in the tables in our release and note that the acquisition of proved and unproved properties in the cash flow statement includes the VPP we repurchased in conjunction with our Permian sales.
The reconciliation of oil and gas properties on page 16 of the release provides the best view of leasehold in the acquisition of unproved properties line.
On the hedging front we now have swaps in place for approximately 76% of our fourth quarter oil production at an average price of $99 per barrel and approximately 69% of our projected 2013 oil production at an average price of $96 per barrel.
Additionally were now selling approximately half of our oil at LLS-based price and have recently hedged more than 35% of that basis exposure relative to WTI at an average premium of $14 per barrel for the first half of 2013.
On the gas side we are pretty heavily hedged for Q4 but remain essentially unhedged for 2013 at this time as we await the further strengthening of natural gas fundamentals as gas production declines from Chesapeake and other major gas producers start to be felt in the marketplace.
Id now like to turn the call over to our COO Steve Dixon.
Thanks Nick.
As Aubrey and Nick mentioned CHKs third quarter was truly exceptional from a production growth standpoint.
Rather than review the growth rates already mentioned by Aubrey and Nick and in the press release Id like to provide some color around production in the quarter for each of our three products: oil NGLs and natural gas.
Last quarter we emphasized that oil production much more so than NGLs would be our primary growth driver going forward and that was indeed the case during the third quarter.
We averaged net oil production of approximately 98 000 barrels per day in the quarter which is up a remarkable 18 000 barrels per day from the second quarter of 23%.
All of our key plays contributed to this quarter-over-quarter strength but the Eagle Ford clearly led the way.
Oil production would have been even higher than reported had we not experienced an unplanned plant outage in the Eagle Ford which Ill address in a moment.
On the NGL side reported volumes were down sequentially about 9% compared to the second quarter.
However had we chosen not to reject approximately 7 400 barrels per day of ethane during July and August NGL volumes would have been roughly flat with the second quarter.
We do not anticipate rejecting as much if any ethanes during the fourth quarter which should positively impact our reported NGL volumes in the coming quarter.
On the natural gas front we are down to our target of 9 rigs drilling.
Thats five in Northern Marcellus two in the Barnett and two in the Haynesville.
And as a reminder last year we were running as many as 81 natural gas rigs so its quite a remarkable turnaround for the nations most active drilling program.
Despite that slowdown in drilling natural gas production grew a robust 19% year-over-year and 9% sequentially during the third quarter.
Reported natural gas volumes would have been even higher had we not experienced a significant downtime at a third-party processing facility in Southern Marcellus region.
That said we are now seeing the effects of our reduced gas drilling program and expect that the third quarter will be our peak quarter in terms of natural gas production.
In fact 2013 is currently budgeted to be the first year in the companys 23-year history that our natural gas production will decrease year-over-year.
It is the end of a remarkable era of industry-leading growth.
Its also a great sign for a pending recovery in gas market fundamentals.
We continue to project that our 2013 total company gas production will be down 7%.
This outcome will be most notable in the Haynesville Shale where our gross production is expected to decline about 9% sequentially from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of this year.
Turning to specific plays Id like to start with the Eagle Ford which continues to deliver exceptional production growth.
Third quarter net productions from the Eagle Ford was 52 200 boe per day which is a 44% increase over the second quarter and a 371% increase year-over-year.
While these results were better than expected they could have been even better had we not experienced the outages at the Regency sour gas processing plant which was effectively down the entire month of September.
We estimate that these outages forced the shut-in of approximately 8 000 barrels of oil per day net to us during the month of September and that would have translated into roughly a 5% higher liquids production than we actually reported during the quarter.
In the third quarter we connected 124 wells in the Eagle Ford which exceeded last quarters exceptional performance of 121 well connections.
Importantly drilling cycle times continue to decrease and we are now down to just 15 1/2 days from spud to rig release.
This has enabled us to reduce our average rig count down from 34 in the second quarter to 26 in the third quarter while actually growing our backlog of wells that are waiting on completion and pipeline connection.
In fact at the end of the third quarter we had 233 wells awaiting completion and pipeline connection.
Thats up from 220 wells in inventory at the end of the second quarter.
This once again sets up a table for strong production growth in the fourth quarter and in 2013 and beyond.
In addition to exceptional drilling and well connection performance our completed well costs in the Eagle Ford have decreased substantially year-over-year and the average per well production rates are continuing to increase.
For example of the 124 wells we connected in the third quarter 35% had peak production rates in excess of 1 000 boe per day and 93% of those wells had peak rates in excess of 500 boe per day.
This compares favorably to the second quarter in which it was 31% of the wells connected at peak rates over 1 000 boe per day and 91% had peak rates in excess of 500 boe per day.
Importantly the production mix in the Eagle Ford is getting oilier also with 68% of our production during the third quarter coming from oil versus 66% in the second quarter.
Moving on to the Anadarko Basin we have five plays there the Miss Lime Cleveland Tonkawa Granite Wash and the Hogshooter which continue to provide steady liquids production growth.
At September 30 we had 31 rigs running in these plays and a combined third quarter net production of 97 000 boe per day which is up from 88 000 per day during the second quarter.
Production mix from these plays combined is also getting much oiler with 36% coming from oil in the third quarter compared to 34% in the second quarter.
In the Powder River Niobrara play we are well underway on our drilling program which will ultimately develop more than 1 200 locations in a liquids-rich over-pressured core area in Converse County Wyoming.
Its where we have 33 000 acres under control.
To date we have drilled 25 wells in this core area.
However due to limited gas takeaway infrastructure and processing facilities only 16 of these wells are actually completed and producing.
But we expect a nice production ramp during 2013 from this area as indicated by very impressive test rates on  were experiencing on recent wells.
Ill now turn to the Utica Shale where we have a leading lease  where we are the leasing leasehold owner driller and producer.
We have 13 operated rigs currently working to evaluate our 1 million-plus net acres.
In terms of number of rigs drilling the Utica is the second most active of our 10 key plays behind only the Eagle Ford.
We continue to focus our capital on the core of the wet gas area inside our JV with Total.
To date weve drilled 134 wells in the Utica.
However only 32 of these wells are actually producing as we continue to build out necessary midstream processing infrastructure and takeaway capacity.
Like the Powder River we expect much more meaningful production contribution from the Utica in 2013.
In the meantime we are continuing to drive down drilling cycle times and total well costs as well as refine our completion techniques to deliver optimal hydrocarbon recovery.
We expect to achieve excellent returns in the Utica and look forward to sharing these with you in the quarters ahead.
To give you an idea of scope we believe that our acreage position could support more than 4 000 wells in Utica Shale over the next couple of decades.
To summarize our operational efforts we continue to ramp up to full development mode in several key plays and we are seeing reduced cycle times across the board.
This is allowing us to maintain our well count and production targets while running fewer rigs and improving returns on capital.
Looking to the months and years ahead we anticipate that two additional factors will enable us to greatly improve our drilling and capital efficiency.
First is by focusing our operations in the core of the core.
We will be drilling our highest rate of return prospects and secondly which we transition out of an HBP mode and into more of an efficient harvest mode we can focus on pad drilling our equipment mobilization times will compress our water handling logistics will get simplified road and pad construction costs will decline and many other economies of scales will be realized.
While its difficult to quantify with precision we are targeting long-term capital efficiency improvements of at least 15% to 20% as we transition to pad drilling.
Speaking of CapEx we expect to see a very material decrease in drilling and CapEx during the fourth quarter.
Additionally our leasehold spend now appears to be on track to come in as much as $250 million or 13% below our previous full year 2012 target of $2 billion.
Going forward we plan to dedicate roughly 95% of our E&amp;P CapEx towards drilling and completion and only 5% on leasehold.
This will have a very positive impact on our all-in F&amp;D cost.
It has taken time and capital to transition Chesapeakes large natural gas production machine into an equally effective liquids production machine and we believe the majority of the heavy lifting is complete and we look forward to harvesting what we have sown.
To conclude my remarks the shift to liquids is progressing ahead of expectations and is on target to achieve our long-term goal of 250 000 barrels per day in 2015.
We believe our capital has been put to good use in this transition having generated liquids production growth of 51% year-over-year and adding proved reserves of 750 million boe at a very attractive drilling and completion cost of $11.52 per barrel.
Using SEC pricing those added reserves are worth $8 billion in PV-10 or $10.68 per barrel.
Operator we will now take questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will start the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Well take our first question from Doug Leggate at Bank of America.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Excuse me.
Ive got a cough...
How are you doing Doug? Not too bad if I can get past my frog in my throat here.
Ive got a couple of questions please.
First of all on the disposals the absence of any material commentary around the Mississippi Lime joint venture and the addition of some Eagle Ford and I dont know if this is actually correct but there is also some murmurings about Hogshooter asset sales as well.
Im just wondering if you can bring us up-to-date with the process and the additional assets youve put in the  what appears you put in the pot as it relates to your refocusing strategy particularly on the Mississippi Lime.
It seems to be a little quiet there.
Any color would be appreciated.
You got it Doug.
Thanks for your questions.
Let me go in reverse order.
The Hogshooter not clear why there was so much confusion on this but let me see if I can clear it up.
We have an asset package out called West Turkey Creek.
Its actually a Granite Wash package centered around the town of Elk City in Western Oklahoma.
Its to the west of our Colony Wash play.
Our teaser that the broker has out on it mentions that there is Hogshooter potential on this acreage but it is primarily a Granite Wash package.
And it is gosh I think close to 100 miles away from our big Hogshooter wells out in the Texas Panhandle.
So to be clear we are not selling anything in the core of our Hogshooter production across the Texas Panhandle and it comes into a little bit of Far Western Oklahoma.
Then with regard to the Eagle Ford we do have a portion of our Eagle Ford acreage what we call the Northern Block that we have on the market today.
Thats I think being marketed through Jefferies.
And that is a very attractive amount of acreage that we need to sell because we simply do not have the capital to go drill all the wells that are required there to HBP that acreage.
Were more focused on the southern part of our block in what we call the wet gas area.
This is all up in the oil area.
And I think it has around 10 000 or 11 000 barrels a day of production at this point.
So it should be a very attractive package for another company and again we hope to have news on that by the end of the year.
With regard to the Miss Lime it has been a long and frustrating process there because we really started out in late spring targeting Asian companies exclusively for a joint venture there.
And with the recent turns in the CFIUS approval process for foreign companies investing in the U.S.
its become clear to us  it became clear to us around a couple of months ago that the notion of getting something done there could be more complicated than what we had thought before.
So we pivoted and started to turn to the industry.
So were in discussions with a number of companies about a portion of our assets there.
Remember we have about 2 million acres there and this area we called JV1 is about 280 000 acres.
So we are still open for business there; we would consider a JV although at this point probably happy to consider 100% sale as well.
So thats where we are on those two deals.
Hopefully we will have agreements on them by the end of the year.
Outside chance that we could close one or both of them but its very likely that the actual closings will slip into the very first part of 2013.
Does that clear it up for you? Do you have anything else? Thats good.
Ive got one follow-up and one housekeeping if I may.
I guess this is for Steve.
Steve its quite a while since weve seen some of the curves that you gave us on type curves for some of these various different plays.
And it looks at least to us that pretty much across the board youre kind of hitting it out of the park in terms of production versus those indicators.
How different is the core of the core particularly in the Eagle Ford and the Miss Lime to the indications you gave us and what kind of running room do you think youve got there? If I could just layer into that when youre talking about the Eagle Ford can I ask you what your choke policy is there? And then Ive got one follow-up please.
Thanks Doug this is Steve.
Weve been very pleased with our results really in all of our areas and the core of the core strategy allows you to focus on your best rates of return areas.
We probably are exceeding a lot of our type curves areas and are in the process of updating those; excellent results to date.
So no  so well get those updates when we should expect some news on that some time or will you just continue to report quarterly? We havent been providing the specifics for a little while Doug and I dont know that that will change in the near future.
Okay.
Theres a bit of debate around the choke size Steve.
If you could tell us what youre running down there thatd be great.
These wells are free flowing so they are on choke.
We  and most all of our liquids-rich plays we dont open those up wide open.
We keep back pressure on them.
Multiple reasons for that; one is just for the equipment and facilities to right size those to last through the longer life of the well.
Some debate still on whether that actually increases your recoveries but were certainly pleased with the results were seeing with our program.
All right.
Ill leave it there fellows.
Thanks for your time.
Okay Doug.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Co.
Morning guys.
Morning Dave.
Real quickly on the CapEx that you mentioned Nick and the decline in the drillbit CapEx spending.
Can you walk us through how that relates to the rig count that you shared with us? Are you at the right level at this point to achieve that decline that youre targeting or should we expect to see additional declines in the rig count? I think were getting down to where we want to be in rigs.
Were at 89 rigs today but were actually physically operating about nine more than that as were still under a transition agreement in the Permian but none of those dollars are obviously burdening us.
So  but thats really where we probably ought to be today and there would be small fluctuations through the fourth quarter and into the first quarter of next year but pretty representative of our  being done with our ramp down.
So yeah what were really seeing now is that the roll through of the lag of bookings coming down as rigs have come off is showing up in the numbers.
So well see that October and November continue to decline and then it should begin to flatten out into December.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And maybe tying that a little bit to the Miss Lime in the second quarter you guys had talked about running 22 rigs throughout the balance of the year and it looks like right now youre at 9 rigs.
Can you walk us through a little bit of what changed and why youre making those kinds of adjustments there? Yes Dave this is Steve.
Part of that is CapEx reduction core of the core focus but a big part of it is that we were outrunning our infrastructure there.
These wells move a lot of water and so we need to get disposal systems built out get electrification in place to be able to run those wells more economically.
So it was really that probably more than anything.
Okay.
And then just one last one if I might.
With respect to taking out some of the typical disclosures that were in Schedule A can you talk a little bit about what youre thinking about for spending in the oil service and midstream side of things? I think that was removed as well  I may have missed it somewhere else in the release.
Youre right Dave.
We did move it  we did remove it.
Midstream for 2013 we expect to be zero because we expect not to own it any further.
And services will be down pretty well from 2012 as well.
Weve largely completed our build-out of PTL which is our pressure pumping business.
And the combined total of midstream and all other  sorry services and all other CapEx should be about $1 billion or in that neighborhood but  which is not different than weve said before but we just felt that with the loss of midstream from the projections it really became less interest on that number so we took it out.
Great.
I appreciate the clarification guys.
Thank you.
Yep.
Well take our next question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Morning gentlemen.
Say just two quick questions.
First Aubrey just your thoughts on you mentioned about going after the core of the core and your thoughts in the Eagle Ford obviously the results look spectacular there.
And just wondering on that reduction in rig count does that just have to do with overall CapEx that Nick or Steve was suggesting or just maybe your thoughts on Eagle Ford sort of activity going forward? Well I think what were seeing in the Eagle Ford as were seeing across all of our plays is just quicker cycle times and we continue to drive those numbers down and so we can get done what we want to do with fewer rigs today than what we thought six months or a year ago.
So you can basically spend about the same amount of money but you get far more wells with reduced cycle times.
So I think if you talk to service companies across the sector particularly drillers they will see that this is a phenomenon thats giving them a little bit of consternation that the industry is becoming so much more efficient.
So as a consequence of lower cycle times and of needing to hit a glide path where our CapEx and operating cash flow are in balance in 2014 we have needed to reduce our CapEx across the company and in 2013 were planning for it to be about a third lower than it was in 2012.
And so we cant drill everything that we have; were long assets and short capital.
So we are strategically moving towards the best parts of our plays and so weve identified an area in the Eagle Ford that we think will provide very attractive returns for a company thats not there or a company thats there and trying to expand its operations.
For us we will focus all of our efforts in the Eagle Ford down in the southern portion where I think Steve said we have another 3 000 or 4 000 wells to drill in that area.
Aubrey any HBP issues in kind of those top eight or nine plays that Chesapeake covers at which youre kind of referring to when moving these rigs around? Well thats certainly an important consideration and I think I said in my remarks that by the end of 2013 we should be largely HBP in most of our plays that wont quite be true in the Utica for example but in the Marcellus and the Eagle Ford and certainly in the Haynesville and the Barnett where were just about there today.
Well be in a position where we will have far more flexibility than weve historically had.
And as Steve mentions the returns that you get from drilling a second and third well on the pad compared to a first well are exceptionally better and so now that we have built an inventory of future wells to drill and have incurred that heavy lifting of those costs our returns on capital will go much higher.
I saw some work the other day that part of our company had done where we looked at in our top 10 plays what percentage of our acreage was PDP and it was less than 10% and yet the HBP portion of it was well over 50%.
So youre beginning to see that we have a lot of acreage held thats not yet on our reserve books and that would be the focus of the company for the years to come.
Okay very good and then last one if I could just on the Utica obviously a number of  a large number of wells drilled there but not tied in yet.
Your thoughts on timing of when you could get to that sort of equilibrium point looking at next  is that something next year or will you be running such and the build-out will be such on midstream that it might take even longer than next year? Neil this is Steve.
Ill answer that.
We are working hard building both pipelines but then also processing facilities need to be put in place.
And some of those take longer lead times but 2013 we have a lot of processing coming on and again construction every day on the pipelines to get these wells hooked up.
So 2013 well see a big big increase.
Got it.
Thank you all.
Well take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Aubrey in the guidance theres a little line in there about this  I guess the forward guidance remains at the risk of the Board or Operating Committee adjusting that going forward.
Has the Board signed off on this 2013 or do you anticipate any other changes for 2013 as you go through the next few months? Yeah.
Dave good question.
Where we are is our Board meeting in December is geared towards discussing our 2013 budget.
Thats kind of the rhythm that most oil and gas companies have.
So we had other issues that we wanted to focus on and September and December will be the time where we address the budget.
So thats why weve said that we dont have an officially approved 2013 budget.
But obviously we have to have a plan that were working on right now and thats the plan that weve laid out today but certainly its subject to further discussion with the Board.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then for  a couple of bigger picture questions.
On the ethane front you talked about or Steve did maybe you talked about ethane rejection in the quarter.
Can you give us your outlook for 2013? How you see those markets and have you guys built any assumptions into your guidance? Yes we continue to build low NGL prices in our budget driven by low ethane prices.
And we obviously have an oversupply of NGLs primarily ethane.
Actually some of the NGL components are above the prices where they were a year ago.
But this is going to take a couple years for the demand for those products to increase.
Propane would certainly be something that would benefit from a colder winter than last year.
So in our view these things are all getting fixed through demand growth and also youll see I think two pipelines completed in 2013 that will connect Conway to Belvieu.
So the huge differentials that youve seen during 2012 in Conway compared to Belvieu should go away.
So we try to move as much of our product to pricing at Belvieu but we still have substantial exposure to Conway.
So we look for low prices in 2013 but steady improvement by the back half of the year into 2014 with of course a normal winter being quite beneficial to us on  across the board on NGLs.
Okay.
And then last question  and thats helpful color.
The last question on the natural gas front  and obviously you laid out your case for a bullish scenario but why not go ahead and take some risks off the table and hedge out that  your 2013 program a little bit? What  can you give us your thought process around that? Sure Id be happy to.
So for starters we like to hedge.
Weve been successful hedgers about $8.8 billion of hedging gains since 2006.
So its something that we talk about every day our hedging committee is Jeff and Nick and myself.
And so were charged with mitigating risk but also with optimizing returns and our view of the market is driven by information that we have that maybe not everybody else has in terms of where we think our production is headed and how we model the production of our competitors as well.
And we simply view that todays strip for 2013 and frankly for years beyond that does not reflect a full appreciation of what happens when big producers like us reverse course and go in to managed decline.
And as Nick said in his remarks well be down 7% year-over-year.
That will be the first year in 23 years that our company had experienced a gas production decline Chesapeake has been responsible for about 30% of all the gas production growth the whole industry has generated in the past five years.
And so when we roll over we think we will pull the whole market with us and we think that the prices that we see out in 2013 do not reflect that.
In fact I saw one Wall Street piece even this morning that projected the Haynesville will be flat to up in 2013 gas production.
Thats simply impossible.
Our production is already down 25% from a peak.
Our Barnett production is already off 11% from its peak.
Steve mentioned that our Haynesville production will be declining by 9% quarter-over-quarter third quarter to fourth quarter.
Okay.
So even the Marcellus kick that were going to get with the additional infrastructure -?  Yeah.
We just dont see  I mean we model all that; were the biggest producer in the Marcellus and we just dont see the Marcellus being able to overcome the declines that are going to happen in the Haynesville and in the Barnett along with all the other conventional gas that today of course still represents about more than 50% of all the gas production in the U.S.
So its simply a matter of trying to pick our spot and we havent yet seen our spot but we will  by the time that we talk again after the first of the year my guess is that we would have started to layer in some hedges.
We are...
All right I appreciate.
Yes.
We are very well-hedged on oil.
I would like to point that out.
Thank you.
Thank you Dave.
Well take our next question from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on that sort of gas price question.
When you all step back and look at your drilling activity I know in the past youve said before that your gas plays have to compete with your oil plays  plays on a heads-up basis.
Can you give us a little bit more color I mean if gas got to $5 to $6 I mean and oil was in this $85 $90 range does that start making that transition back to gas happen again? Yeah and Scott to be clear you said $5 to $6 right? Yes thats right thats right.
And $5-plus  so lets just say $5-plus get above $5 yeah.
Well certainly $4 to $5 weve said then no change in our approach.
$5 to $6 wed probably  we would evaluate and take a look.
The Marcellus is certainly competitive with oil projects at inside that $5 to $6 range.
The Haynesville and Barnett it still may be a toss-up but remember also we and other companies still have acreage that needs to be HBP on the oil side.
So just as rig activity was sticky on the gas side when economics indicated that you might reduce your count the industry kept it pretty high because it needed to convert options with a one or two-year life to them to options that have no expiration to them.
And youll see that on the oil side as well.
Okay.
So you sense that the rig count could be pretty sticky with the oil plays here for at least the next few years is generally what...
Yes thats what youll see from us.
Okay.
All right.
And then on the Utica Shale I think when you all first started talking about this play pretty aggressively you had sort of dubbed it as better than the Eagle Ford or something pretty close to that.
And with obviously over 100 wells now drilled and a few dozen on line what are your thoughts right now? Does it  it seems like its a little bit more gassy with some of the results.
And how does your kind of the core of the core strategy work in the Utica? When do you think you could really start fine tuning that a little bit better? Well I think we have a really good handle on where the core of the core is and we feel like we own it in Columbiana and Carroll and Harrison Counties.
And so we went after the wet gas here.
We picked up some oil acreage in some of our deals and havent been in the process of really selling the oil acreage to companies that were more focused on that part of the play than us.
So I think in the wet gas  the best of the Utica wet gas is absolutely competitive with the best of the Eagle Ford wet gas.
And so the question is really is  has the area of wet gas narrowed somewhat? Probably it has a little bit.
But so did the Eagle Ford wet gas window and weve dealt with that.
And we have acreage in the right spot for the Eagle Ford wet gas; and then Utica I think our Utica wet gas acreage is between 300 000 and 400 000 acres out of our million-plus acres there.
So were thrilled with the Utica.
Its just taken a while to be able to show results because we simply are waiting on midstream build-out to occur which will be starting in 2013 and extend on into 2014.
So I think if you look around and look at the wells that Gulfports announced and some of the other wells that other companies have announced that if youre in that corridor which stretches from Columbiana down through Carroll and Harrison and maybe a little further south from there you have results that are as good as any from any play in the country.
Understood thanks.
And one real quick one.
I think Steve you may have mentioned that you are running nine rigs on the Permian obviously for the purchasers.
Nick could you just give a little color? How does that run through the financials? Will we be seeing some of that rolled through Chesapeake CapEx and back out somewhere else or is that going to be sort of a non-impact to any kind of CapEx you could report in the fourth quarter? Its a non-impact.
We do that through a Transition Services agreement.
So basically we just bill them for 100% working interest and they pay us for that.
Understood thanks.
Well take our next question from Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Im going to ask you my usual one on CapEx.
Spending was higher in the quarter than I think any of us had been expecting.
I was just wondering if you could talk about what drove this if it was HBP or rig  term rig contracts? And in our numbers 4Q CapEx is going to have to be down something like 30% in order to meet your guidance.
So I was just wondering if you can elaborate on how nimble you can be in reducing the spending? I know you spoke to it a little bit in the prepared comments but just wanted some more detail.
Sure Jason.
The short answer is we can  you can call it nimble or you can call it I guess completed.
But at the current rig count were there.
So its really a matter of the lag from the ramp-down that you see rolling through.
And one of the things to keep in mind here is that as you bring rigs off which weve been doing since I guess mid to late spring you still have a number of associated costs after the rigs go away.
You have frac crews that have to complete their work on the wells that have been drilled.
You have other mobilization costs et cetera.
And so that has taken more time than any of us probably anticipated to run through the system.
But we are absolutely seeing the lower month-over-month numbers now that will drive us to exactly where youre looking fourth quarter.
I agree with your assessment of the decrease thats required and we think well hit it.
Were on target to do so.
Jason I might also mention that we did take the high end of our CapEx estimate for the year up by $250 million but apparently some people lost the point that we also reduced our leasehold spend by an equal amount of $250 million.
So leasehold is really a forward-looking indicator of CapEx and it has really fallen off in the last few months and will continue to decline further and were taking it from $1.750 billion in 2012 to only $400 million in 2013.
So that run rate is dropping very aggressively as well.
So I hope people do recognize that net-net we ended up flat on our CapEx guidance.
And then the...
Thats...
Go ahead Jason.
Go ahead Jason.
Thats helpful.
I appreciate that.
I had a follow-up also on the Haynesville.
And I was just wondering what is the longer-term strategy for that asset? Based on your comments it sounds like you need at least $5 gas and possibly higher to have it compete with oil projects and its also got to compete with the Marcellus.
I mean is this an asset you still consider to be core? Yes its one of our 10 core assets along with Barnett and eight others.
So and I think its a great point that people are not fully appreciating which is that I think theres a case out there for gas prices that most people arent willing to contemplate because they run individual well math that says oh at $4.50 or $5 or $5.50 you can make money drilling that Barnett well or that Haynesville well.
And yes the answer is you could but capital is always scarce and as a consequence you have to pursue projects that have the best returns.
And today those best returns are in plays like the Eagle Ford the Utica and other liquid-focused plays.
And that will remain the case.
And we are comfortable with our gas production continuing to decline for as long as is required for gas prices to become attractive enough for us to take rigs away from oil plays and go put them in gas plays.
And so right now we have one of the biggest gas storage reservoirs in the world sitting there in the Haynesville and sitting there in the Barnett and sitting there in the Marcellus.
And it has incredible option value and I think what youll see is the demand for gas increase over the next one to five years to get to a point where the gas curve is going to have to go be competitive with the oil curve for projects for additional drilling in these fields.
And when the gas curve pays us to take on those responsibilities of drilling those additional wells well do so.
But not until then.
Great.
And one final one if I may.
Just is there any update on the additional Utica JV youve mentioned in the past as to what timing might be there? Sure.
That project we talked about in 2013 that would be a JV on the dry gas side.
So just to remind everybody we have a JV with Total on the wet gas side.
And we do not have a partner on the dry gas side.
So were  thats a 2013 project and we anticipate that gas prices will become attractive enough during 2013 to get some interest there.
Theres lots of companies that are looking to export gas from the U.S.
who need some domestic exposure.
And as a consequence of that we think we will have plenty of people to take a look at it.
And the results I would say on the dry gas side of the Utica are very very strong and in fact quite competitive with what we see in the Marcellus in the northeastern part of the dry gas play the Northeastern Marcellus.
Again its not something that you talk about very much in a time of low gas prices.
But we have drilled a number of Utica dry gas wells that are very strong and will generate rates of return competitive with our Marcellus drilling.
But to be clear that process has not started yet right? It has not started.
Its a 2013 process.
Youre right.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Ill turn it back.
Okay.
Thanks Jason.
Well take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Hi Brian.
Brian.
Brian Singer  Goldman Sachs</strong> Just following up on the Utica.
Can you talk a bit more towards production mix oil NGLs and gas given the variability that weve seen in some of the wells that have been drilled and then some more detail on backlog changes and the gas contribution you expect from Utica in the context of your 7% overall gas decline next year? Hi Brian.
This is Steve.
Ill start on that.
I mean like the Eagle Ford the Utica has a dry gas window wet gas window and oil window and so with very limited well results to date its really weighted towards wherever those wells are.
And so its  I dont think you can say that its going to be gassier or oilier.
Its really where the well mix is producing.
Were very very pleased with the results.
Were very pleased with what we think hydrocarbons in place are in the Utica.
So itd really just be where processing midstream and the wells get drilled.
I guess to be specific what percent gas do you expect and what percent oil do you expect from the core wet gas or whatever you would call core of core that drives the strong rates of return versus the Eagle Ford? Brian this is Aubrey.
Im looking at something that our natural  our NGL yield is about 40% to 45%.
And Im sorry that I dont have the break between processed gas and oil but we can get back with you on that.
But again its pretty consistent with what weve seen in wet gas plays like in the Eagle Ford.
But well  we can get back with you off line.
Okay thats great.
And then speaking of the Eagle Ford when you think about core of core and I apologize if you mentioned this already can you just talk about the acres that you would put in the core of core and has it been those acres that has been the major driver so far of the production increases that weve seen recently? Im sorry which were you referring to a particular play or just...
Yes Im sorry in the Eagle Ford shale.
When you think about the north versus south in the core of core how many acres would you call the core of core and have those acres been the major driver of your growth here in the last couple of quarters? I dont have the exact percentage but its going to be probably in the 60% to 65% range.
And yeah its definitely  those have been the ones driving it although I think I did say that our gross production is around 10 000 or 11 000 barrels of oil per day on whats for sale and so obviously a disproportionate part of our production is in the southern part of the play.
Back to your Utica comment I mean one thing you could do is just look at three wells that weve highlighted there and add up our liquids production compared to natural gas production and come up with a percentage of natural gas.
Do you think those wells are representative of the averages that well see on a going-forward basis for your acreage? In the core wet gas phase absolutely yeah.
Okay.
Thats great.
And then lastly it was asked earlier on the  you talked about the December Board meeting and the 2013 budget.
Would you expect any meaningful changes as a result of that Board meeting in terms of the operational plans any major shifts in growth that youre projected out of spend when all is said and done? Brian I really cant speculate on that at this time.
Well just have to have the discussion see where oil and gas prices are and see how our plays stack up and make those decisions at that point.
And as soon as those decisions have been made well be able to get back to you.
Thats great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Hi good morning.
A couple of questions.
On the reserves front there was a sizeable negative provision.
Can you give some color where that is and what drove that? Not price-related revisions.
Predominantly it was all price-related.
We had some that were just aged PUDs come off but it was not a big number Biju it was pretty much price-related.
The other aspect of that of course is that with lower rig counts theres PUDs that we no longer can model within our five-year rule.
So as weve lowered our rig count this year we have to remodel what will fit as PUDs and so theres a component that includes that.
Got it.
So would it...? The reserves are still  of course the reserves are still on the ground and to the extent acreage is held-by production well get to them in better price times.
Okay.
Okay.
And then on slide 12 of your latest deck if I look at the growth coming from associated gas you are forecasting a lower number now as compared to the previous slides.
Is that just lower drilling activity or a shift in your mix where youre drilling or are you expecting any lower productivity in any of the areas? Certainly not lower productivity.
I think thats related to just lower activity overall as we seek to glide down to our projected CapEx for 2013.
Okay.
And then one last question on the CapEx.
Can you talk about sort of your monthly rate where you are now with sort of 89 rigs versus where you were I think over close to 120 rigs a quarter ago? Yes.
Biju Ill just repeat what I said before which was September was down 18% from August and October looks to be down pretty significantly again and then we expect November to be a further decline from there.
So again it doesnt tie on a calendar perspective exactly with when the rigs come off because theres a lag in the bookings and theres a lag in the associated capital that comes behind the rigs.
So its a little bit hard to tie it to exactly when the rigs come off but Ill just again guide you back to what we are seeing in month-over-month changes which is very material.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
I believe we have time for about two more questions particularly out of courtesy to other companies and their earnings calls.
So operator if you could open it up for a couple more.
Well take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Thanks guys for letting me be one of these last two.
This will be quick.
Hi Charles.
Can you tell us where you are and kind of what the remaining tasks are to get the CMD divestiture closed and does it make sense to think about it in like a percentage of completion? We probably have some work plans around here with a percentage of completion on them.
But no it doesnt really make sense to think about it like that.
Look this is our fifth deal that weve done with GIP over the last several years when you include the original transaction and the drop-downs that weve completed taking the MLP public et cetera.
So we know these guys well.
We have a high degree of confidence in where were headed.
This is across multiple basins.
Some of our partners are of course impacted here.
And we need to talk to them about what were doing and were in the process of doing all that.
So its just a big complicated process with have a lot of paper to move and were progressing forward with it as expeditiously as we can.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then I wanted to go back to one comment that you guys made a couple of times in your prepared remarks when you said that you were going to stay at or below $9.5 billion of total debt going forward.
What is the timeframe on that or what are the kind of the conditions associated with that? Because it doesnt really make sense as a perpetual goal.
Well I think thats a fair comment Charles other than the fact that we really believe that our balance sheet got stressed over the last several years as we made a transition and then that transition occurred during a time of very low natural gas prices.
So we acknowledge that we would like to have less debt on our balance sheet.
As reserves and production grow into the future we could always choose to revisit that.
But for the period we see in front of us we would like to be clear that the company knows or has a view as to what an appropriate level of debt is and were going to get there and stay there.
So were not ones to say never about anything but on this one were pretty firm about where we want to be and were going to stay there for the time being.
So things could change over the future to impact that but for now were focused on that goal.
Great.
Thank you Nick.
Thats it for me.
And well take our last question today from Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Thanks.
I guess just one quick one for me.
As I think about backlogs and efficiencies I know you talked a lot about it on the call.
I guess first whats the current backlog up in the northeastern part of the Marcellus from your alls side of things? And then second do you have any sort of estimates around what sort of capital is associated with bringing the backlogs on particularly in the Eagle Ford and also the Marcellus and the timeline for reducing those down to what you might call a more normalized level? Sorry a few questions in there.
I know.
We got it.
I think Steve is going to take these just gathering information.
Thanks.
In the Marcellus we still have over 200 wells in backlog.
We took quite a few of those off already this year.
And well plan on reducing that further in 2013.
And I think thats in our press release in the Eagle Ford for example we have 233 wells that have been drilled...
Right.
Arent producing.
But none of those are really what you would consider backlog waiting on a whole lot of infrastructure and most of that is in a spot where its the normal course of business.
I guess thats  And we do project the capital for that as well or do our best to project the capital for that as well.
So it should not lead to  that in and of itself we hope wont lead to surprises in CapEx.
Okay.
Any willingness to disclose that capital or no? I still think I have it split out here but...
Basically our well costs are about half for drilling and about half for completion so you can always work off that.
But some of those wells will have already been completed and just waiting on a pipeline and require very little capital.
Some are waiting on completion.
So theres just a variety of things in that mix.
Okay fair enough.
And then as you think about these drilling efficiencies that the industry and yourselves are seeing I mean is it fair to think that as you get surprised to the upside if you will on efficiency gains that drives some sort of creep higher in capital as youre unable to react to all that real-time to those efficiency gains? We would simply reduce rig count.
I mean the focus is on whats the right level of capital and the course that we can do that with fewer rigs then obviously thats the best outcome for our shareholders.
So we and others in the industry are continuing to try to get more efficient and to the extent we can use fewer rigs to develop our properties over time that will be a very good thing for all of us.
Got it great.
Thanks I appreciate it.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
We appreciate your participation today.
If you have any follow-up questions Jeff and the rest of his team are available for you.
So thanks again.
Again that does conclude todays conference thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation 2012 Q4 and full year earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.]  At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeakes financial and operational results for the 2012 fourth quarter and full year.
Hopefully youve had a chance to review our press release and updated investor presentation that we have posted to our website.
During the course of this call our commentary will include forward looking statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations objectives forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such forward looking statements.
Additional information concerning these factors is available on our earnings release and the companys SEC filings.
Additionally we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures so we encourage you to read the full disclosure and GAAP reconciliations located on our website and in this mornings press release.
I would next like to introduce the other members of our management team who are with me on the call today: Steve Dixon our chief operating officer Nick DellOsso our chief financial officer; and Gary Clark our vice president of investor relations and research.
Before I turn the conference over to Steve however I would like to share with you a few comments on a leadership change at Chesapeake.
As you know Aubrey McClendon the companys co-founder and CEO will retire from the company on April 1 2013 and after leading the company during our first 80 conference calls he is now stepping aside to Steve and Nick to lead this call.
In addition a search is currently underway for a new CEO and the board plans to complete this search by that time.
Aubrey has had a remarkable career founding and leading Chesapeake and has created one of the most valuable and innovative companies in the global energy industry.
Two of Aubreys most important accomplishments are the tremendous asset base that has been amassed by the company and the talented and dedicated organization he built to develop these assets.
The culture and capabilities of the company Aubrey created and the standards of excellence he championed have been distinctive and inspiring resulting in a company with extraordinary potential.
But his legacy will ultimately be the realization of that potential through the success and value that we all help deliver after his tenure as CEO concludes.
With those thoughts in mind and on behalf of nearly 12 000 employees at Chesapeake we want to sincerely thank Aubrey for his visionary leadership and for his 24 years of tireless service to the company the shareholders the employees and to the industry.
With that Im going to turn the call over to Steve Dixon who is working with Nick DellOsso to guide the company through this period.
I thank them and all of my Chesapeake colleagues for their continued dedication and focus as we work collectively to develop Chesapeakes world-class asset for our shareholders.
Steve? Thanks Jeff.
Im pleased to report substantial progress at Chesapeake this quarter on three key objectives: improving our production mix towards more liquids reducing per-unit production cost and achieving our targeted capital budget reductions.
Nick will talk more in depth about both the capital budget achievements and our cost discipline in a few minutes but suffice it to say Im proud of what our operational teams have achieved and the path that we are on.
Clearly we have amassed an enviable collection of assets across 10 of the top 15 key onshore plays in the U.S.
and now the task at hand is to convert a decade of industry-leading new play investments into improved shareholder returns.
And we are well-positioned to do this even more efficiently and effectively than ever before.
Over the past three quarters Chesapeake has demonstrated that we have the people properties and processes in place to drive liquids production higher while also containing per-unit expenses.
Furthermore Im energized by the opportunity to greatly improve our capital efficiency in the quarters ahead.
To this end during the past year all of our asset teams have been retasked and incentivized to shift their focus from acreage capture mode to meeting budgets and delivering higher returns on capital.
Focusing our operations on the core of the core enables our drilling program to increasingly target the best parts of each play which should translate into better well results and very impactful capital efficiency improvements.
Through focused pad drilling our equipment mobilization times will compress water handling logistics will be simplified road and pad construction costs will decline pipeline connection times will shorten and many other economies of scale will be realized.
We are targeting capital efficiency improvements of at least 15-20% as we transition to pad drilling.
Before I get to the operations Id like to take a minute to discuss our reserve changes during this past year.
2012 was a noisy year for reserve bookings as low gas prices resulted in the removal of nearly 5.4 Tcf of reserves primarily in the Barnett and Haynesville shales.
We look forward to the return of these reserves when gas prices recover.
Additionally we removed 1.4 Tcfb of reserves for non-price related factors.
This is primarily as a result of the SEC five-year rule given our change in rig allocations and the high grading of [spud] locations into our shift from natural gas to liquids.
Importantly production revisions to our crude reserves were positive 131 Bcfb as our individual well performance in aggregate exceeded our prior estimates.
With regard to the commodity mix at year end 2011 our crude reserves were approximately 17% liquids and 83% natural gas.
At year end 2012 this mix improved to 30% liquids and 70% natural gas.
Turning now to our asset base I will highlight two plays that best illustrate the operational excellence being achieved at Chesapeake.
First the Eagle Ford Shale which was once again the growth engine for our liquids production.
Fourth quarter liquids production averaged 50 800 barrels per day.
Thats up 38 500 barrels per day or 314% year over year and up 8 000 barrels per day or 19% sequentially versus the third quarter.
This was in spite of outages at Regencys Tilden processing plant and barge delays for pipeline loading in Corpus Christi that impacted fourth quarter production by approximately 2 500 barrels per day.
And as a reminder approximately 82% of our liquids mix in this play is oil and only 18% NGLs.
Looking forward we have budgeted our outlook a year-end exit rate of approximately 70 000 barrels of liquids per day from the Eagle Ford.
Achieving this near-40% growth target is subject to several factors most notably the operational performance of certain midstream processing plants and the addition of natural gas gathering and compression systems which have restrained our growth in each of the last two quarters.
That said we are highly confident in the productive capacity of our Eagle Ford play and believe that intermittent midstream issues would only impact the timing not the ultimate delivery of our production targets.
During the 2012 fourth quarter we connected 98 wells in the Eagle Ford.
Looking ahead our goal is to connect approximately 400 wells in 2013 which is roughly the same quantity as we did in 2012.
This is while running 14 fewer rigs than last year.
We were able to achieve this by connecting wells currently in inventory as infrastructure catches up and also by benefitting from reduced spud-to-spud cycle times.
We continue to make very meaningful progress in driving cycle times and well costs lower.
Our average spud-to-spud time during the fourth quarter was 18 days.
Thats down more than 30% from 26 days in the 2011 fourth quarter and over this same time period average per-well drilling and completion cost also fell roughly 30%.
And cycle times have continued further to decrease in 2013.
Notably we just recently drilled our fastest Eagle Ford Shale well to date in just under eight days.
The asset team had done an outstanding job in this region and I look forward to accelerating capital efficiency gains in 2014 when the percentage of our wells drilled on existing well pads is expected to increase over threefold from this year.
Moving on to the Utica Shale we continue to focus our drilling efforts in the wet gas window of the play inside our joint venture with Total where we hold more than 450 000 net acres.
Im pleased to announce that within this area we are projecting average EURs per well to range from 5-10 Bcf depending on the area and the phase of the play targeted.
To date we have drilled 184 wells in the Utica 45 of which are currently producing.
Production in the Utica was fairly minimal in the year in 2012 due to infrastructure constraints but we are anticipating a significant ramp up during 2013 perhaps reaching 55 000 BOEs per day by the end of the year.
Helping us to achieve this goal will be gas processing infrastructure additions at Dominions natrium processing plant in Marshall County West Virginia which is scheduled to go online in April followed by the first of three processing trains at Momentums Kensington plant in Columbiana County Ohio which is scheduled to go online midyear 13 with the second train operational before year end.
Like the Eagle Ford Chesapeake is generating significant efficiency gains in the Utica.
Spud-to-spud cycle times have decreased 37% year over year from 35 days down to just 22 days.
Average per-well drilling and completion costs have followed a similar path and were down 27% year over year.
In terms of drilling results I would particularly like to highlight a well we recently drilled in Carroll County.
Its the [Co 34-12-41H].
This well experienced 24-hour IP of over 2 200 BOE per day with a liquids cut of approximately 33% assuming full ethane recovery.
We believe weve captured the industrys largest position in the Utica and look forward to solid results in this play for years to come.
Additionally Id like to summarize our results in the Anadarko Basin where we are focusing on five plays: the Mississippi Lime the Cleveland the Tonkawa Granite Wash and Hog Shooter.
These plays continue to provide steady liquids production growth.
At December 31 we had 29 rigs running in these plays and combined fourth quarter net production averaged 104 500 BOE per day which is up 7 500 BOE per day in the third quarter or 8% sequentially.
The production mix from these five plays combined continues to get oilier with 39% coming from oil in the fourth quarter as compared to 36% in the third quarter.
To characterize the year ahead company-wide the shift to liquids is progressing in line with expectations and we continue to anticipate 27% liquids growth in 2013.
As planned our natural gas production is now in decline and our current guidance implies a 7% year over year decrease in reported natural gas production.
When adjusted for voluntary curtailments and the impact of our 2012 and projected 2013 asset sales we believe the organic decline in our natural gas production will be closer to 9% year over year assuming midpoint of our current guidance.
As we look at the balance of 2013 there are two major objectives we plan to accomplish.
First is to continue to execute and build on the strong liquids production growth and cost discipline trends that are already firmly in place.
Second is to complete two-year asset divestiture program that we have previously laid out to fund our capital investment program reduce our financial leverage and focus our operational efforts on our best plays to enhance returns on capital.
Along these lines my operational teams have been fully engaged in the asset sales program since the outset and I am confident they will not miss a beat in executing the program that has been set before them.
Lastly I would like to thank all the employees of Chesapeake for their hard work loyalty and determination as we move through this challenging period of low gas prices and a leadership transition.
Our employees have always been and will remain our best asset and I look forward to sharing their success in many years to come.
Ill now turn the call over to Nick.
Good morning and thanks Steve.
We are pleased with our 2012 fourth quarter results and the substantial headway we made in terms of growing oil production refining our focus and reducing costs.
Adjusted earnings per share of $0.26 exceeded consensus estimates of $0.14 per share and our production and EBITDA topped consensus estimates by a substantial margin as well.
Our strong performance was driven primarily by oil production volumes improved oil price differentials and solid execution on the cost side of our business.
We produced 8.9 million barrels of oil in the quarter.
Only 0.3 million barrels or about 3% of which was attributable to the stop of production from the portion of the Permian sale that closed in October.
Quarter over quarter our significant growth areas were in the Eagle Ford and mid-continent regions where we continue to generate high-quality oil growth which is reflected in our strong oil price realizations.
During the fourth quarter our company-wide differential to WTI was a positive $0.26 per barrel which is greatly improved from our third quarter differential of WTI minus $4.15 per barrel.
Our outstanding marketing team warrants recognition for helping us achieve these favorable prices through securing access to premium pricing markets via pipeline opportunistic entry into oil trucking in certain areas and favorable lending arrangements.
Importantly less than 10% of our oil production is considered condensate as defined by an API gravity of 50 degrees and above.
Condensate oversupply concerns have been raised in the marketplace recently and I believe Chesapeake has a good plan in place to successfully navigate this issue.
Its also worth noting that our total liquid stream by volume for the quarter consisted of 66% oil 34% NGLs a favorable mix that further strengthened realized revenue.
We achieved this mix in spite of the sale of our Permian assets which continued a much higher percentage of oil than NGLs.
On the cost front the fourth quarter was the first full quarter of the year where our decline in activity began to show up materially in our reported results with our drilling and completion costs down approximately 30% year over year.
We averaged 88 operated rigs for the quarter and spent $1.596 billion on drilling and completion costs compared to 122 operated rigs and $2.275 billion in the third quarter of 2012.
By December our monthly drilling and completion capex run rate was down to approximately $500 million and we expect our drilling and completion spend to remain roughly in line with this rate throughout 2013.
Further we came in on budget for January 2013 as well.
This puts us on track to spend approximately $6 billion for the full year 2013 net of drilling and completion carries from joint venture partners as compared to $8.8 billion in 2012.
Im also pleased to note that production expenses came in at $0.83 per Mcfe down $0.01 per Mcfe from the prior quarter and down $0.05 per Mcfe year over year.
G&amp;A came in at $0.23 per Mcfe down $0.10 per Mcfe from the prior quarter and down $0.12 per Mcfe year over year.
This decline included the impact of filling a portion of our additional overhead to the full cost pool due to changes in the [copus] rules so while we do not expect G&amp;A to remain at these very low levels going forward our cost structure initiatives are clearly starting to bear fruit as demonstrated by the significant reduction weve made to forecasted G&amp;A as well as other cost items in our outlook on schedule A of the earnings release.
Id now like to quickly review some of the significant events of 2012 a year that was heavily impacted by continuing low natural gas prices.
Chesapeake entered the year focused on continued rapid growth of our oil and NGL production to provide a more balanced source of cash flow generation going forward.
We were running a total of 164 rigs in January of 2012 when the extremely warm winter and resulting rapid and severe drop in first quarter natural gas prices prompted us to further reduce our activity levels.
As a result we ramped down our drilling program to just 85 rigs by the end of 2012.
Fortunately we were able to rely on our liquids-rich portfolio to buffer the significant impact to 2012 cash flows created by the natural gas price decline and were also able to close on the sale of nearly $12 billion of asset sales during the year.
At the end of the year we were still able to achieve an 84% increase in oil production and a 54% increase in total liquids growth setting us up for a more balanced 2013 and beyond production profile and importantly holding production on some very valuable oil leases in the process.
To recap the year our biggest asset sales consisted of exits from the midstream business and the Permian Basin.
Our midstream exit enabled us to redirect the companys strategic focus and capital resources into our upstream oil and gas operations.
As a reminder we originally entered the midstream business at a time when the midstream industrys knowledge and appetite for capital growth and unconventional assets was limited.
Entering midstream proved to be profitable and strategically important.
However given the changing dynamics of the NLP space and the increasing maturity of our operations in unconventional resource plays we concluded that it made strategic sense to exit this business in 2012.
Im pleased to report that we recorded a total pretax gain on our midstream sales including our gain on the sale of our equity interest in CHKM or ACMP earlier this year of approximately $1.3 billion.
The Permian sales also represented a significant basin exit for us but one that again helped to strategically and financially refine our focus.
While the Permian is a liquids-rich basin it was not going to be allocated a significant enough amount of capital within our broader portfolio in the coming years relative to our other assets.
With respect to 2013 Im pleased to report that we are in a completely different position from a liquidity and funding perspective than one year ago.
We began 2013 with an undrawn revolver with $4 billion of availability which if necessary could cover our approximate $4 billion funding gap in 2013 which is derived from our updated outlook in this mornings press release.
We look forward to soon announcing progress on our Mississippi Lime transaction which will further reduce the funding gap previously mentioned and have closed on or have under PSA more than $200 million in aggregated other asset sales so far this year.
Importantly the company and the board of directors remain committed to reducing Chesapeakes financial leverage.
Let me now walk you through some highlights from our outlook on schedule A of our press release.
First we are reiterating our liquids production growth for 2013 and are very pleased with our results to date.
For 2013 we forecast our oil production and differentials to remain strong.
We now project that our oil production will account for more than 51% of our 2013 oil and gas revenue.
Turning to NGLs I would like to note that we are not forecasting any ethane rejection in our production numbers this year but certainly acknowledge that some could occur.
Additionally our NGL growth will be highly contingent on the timing of processing infrastructure in the Utica.
Therefore our line of sight on NGL production is less clear than that of our oil production.
That said NGLs are projected to account for less than 10% of our oil and gas revenue stream in 2013.
Therefore our exposure to soft NGL markets and potential processing delays is not particularly material.
Next I would like to address something that our organization is very proud of given the work put into it.
We are lowering our cost per unit expectations across the board: production expenses production taxes and G&amp;A.
We remain focused on these metrics and believe that our increased operational emphasis and diligence in this area will help us deliver further reductions ahead.
These cost changes combined with unchanged production from previous guidance have allowed us to increase the bottom end of our range of cash flow expectations despite a reduction in expected average 2013 natural gas prices.
In our revised outlook we are reiterating our $6 billion drilling and completion and our $400 million lease hold budgets for 2013.
Last quarter we removed our guidance around oilfield service and other capex spending following the midstream operations.
However to provide a little color there we expect our field services capex to be lower in 2013 than in 2012 and we are not looking to add any new capacity to that business beyond orders for equipment placed earlier last year.
Finally Ill address our hedge position for 2013.
Youve no doubt noticed that we put on a significant amount of gas hedges for 2013 and feel good about being 50% hedged on the gas side for 2013 at an average price of $3.62 per Mcfe.
We are almost fully hedged on the oil side at $95.45 per barrel for 85% of our 2013 production and have also added a material amount of oil hedges in 2014 at an average price of $93.67 per barrel.
We believe these incremental hedges go a long way toward derisking our 2013 and 2014 cash flow expectations despite the fact that we are somewhat bullish on gas markets from this point forward.
With that operator well now open up the call for questions.
[Operator instructions.]  Well go first to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Ill start off with Nick or whoever wants to take this one on the asset sales.
Nick it sounds like youre pretty close to the the Mississippi Lime disposal.
Could you share with us any color in terms of whether this is solely an acreage deal or the format in terms of joint venture or whatever?  Or particularly if theres any production associated with your likely transaction? Im going to hold back on giving you any specifics on the transaction given were in the throes of working on it.
But I would say that there is some production associated with it and we have included the impact of that in our outlook.
Maybe a follow on related then.
One of the biggest criticisms perhaps of the company is still the outspend or the overspend.
And you highlighted the liquidity position since the beginning of the year at least the end of last year.
However if you dont achieve the $5-7 billion of asset sales it wouldnt really help you.
So can you help or provide any kind of color as to how the board is influencing the spending decision versus the potential ultimate scale of disposals and any comfort you can give us on the line of sight as to how you get to such big numbers $5-7 billion this year? Well we and the board are very focused on our budget for the year which as you noted has multiple elements.
It has our spend.
It also has asset sales and other costs associated with it.
Were focused on the end game of where we will come out.
Were focused on deleveraging.
And all of those things have to work together.
Were also focused on the fact that through this year we continue to hold [by] production some very valuable liquids [acreage].
With every well we drill with every acre that we hold we become more flexible in our drilling program and thats a great thing in the short term.
And we are happy and would consider using that flexibility if needed.
Now that being said we have great confidence in our asset sale program.
We have good line of sight into what we plan to accomplish and we think the outlook that is in front of you all today with the $6 billion drilling program and completing of asset sales in 2013 is something that is achievable and that we believe we will achieve this year.
Last one is for Steve.
You have not changed your liquids guidance now for quite a while but it seems that the oil piece of the liquids growth is running at least ahead of what we were expecting.
Can you just help us understand what is drilling to core to the core mean in terms of type curves because you really have not updated us there since 2010.
And if you could just speak to how you see the risks through your liquids in particular your oil growth as we move through the next 12 months? We are focusing our capital program on liquids and drilling our very best locations and thats starting to [gin] those results.
Probably the Eagle Ford is certainly the biggest driver where most of our capital is and where weve had the greatest success.
And it continues to impress and improve.
And hopefully well get some more results quarter over quarter going forward.
No change to the type curve?  In the Eagle Ford in particular? We havent provided the type curve since 2010.
Thats what I mean.
It seems to be pretty out of date.
Our results we think show great growth there and great performance.
[talkover] continue to deliver to you guys out of the Eagle Ford and out of all our liquids plays.
Well go next to Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Nick I wanted to ask you obviously you have a $4 billion outspend this year.
Wanted to see how the Marcellus could tie in to the deleveraging of your balance sheet.
Obviously you have a big acreage position here.
Id argue its probably the highest multiple business in the U.S.
E&amp;P.
The companys obviously focused on liquids.
Why not think about monetizing a piece of the Marcellus? Were looking at a number of alternatives on the A&amp;D front for this year.
We have a pretty good plan in front of us.
We have had a couple of non-core acreage packages in the Marcellus out of the market that we had said we were going to do in our third quarter.
And we continue to do that across the board look for the places within our portfolio where we are going to be the most efficient given the footprint that we have and where we have the best results and know that we have acreage that would be more valuable to someone else.
Very good acreage that can be drilled for a great return but within our portfolio as were going to allocate capital can be delivered to someone else for a better return in up-front cash to Chesapeake.
So were doing that in the Marcellus and were doing that across all of our plays.
And in terms of what we have line of sight on today its the Mississippi Lime and an acreage package in the Eagle Ford in terms of upstream asset sales?  Is that fair? Those are the two biggest that weve talked about publicly.
Thats correct.
And switching gears a little bit you guys recently talked about a 10-year agreement on the methanol front.
I just wanted to get some details on that and perhaps are you seeing more industrial customers looking to do similar kinds of things? We are seeing a lot of interest from industrial customers.
Theres been a really big increase over the last couple of years but recently its been even probably a more concerted effort by industrial customers to talk to us about some creative ideas.
And weve found the methanol transaction to be very attractive for us.
It links our ultimate delivery to a price of a commodity thats closer tied to crude so we can take some gas exposure and tie it in a way that correlates it more to a crude price.
And its something that brings additional demand onto the U.S.
market for natural gas.
So we think that we have a great price structure locked in there one that achieves a very favorable price for Chesapeake and still provides us with enough exposure to upside to make it interesting beyond the price at the outset of the deal.
And one quick one for Steve.
Where is your Haynesville production today versus at the peak? I know it was down pretty hard quarter over quarter.
Gross were down to 1.3 from 2 Bcf a day.
Down by about a third.
Okay thats helpful.
Well go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
First on the oil mix can you just talk about how if at all you expect your oil mix to evolve and change in three areas: the Mississippi Lime Eagle Ford and in Utica?  I noticed that the Mississippi Lime that oil as a percentage of the total ticked up during the quarter.
In the Eagle Ford it ticked down a little bit.
And just also wondering when you talk about 5-10 [Bcfe] whereas in Utica what percentage oil versus NGLs versus gas you would expect? Ill start with the Utica.
Thats still pretty early and results change pretty quickly across the play.
Yields have a pretty wide range and so thats why we gave a wide range.
So I dont really have a number to give you on that.
The Mississippi Lime and the Eagle Ford we dont really expect the mix to change there over time.
We have pretty good insight now with those basins having pretty material amount of production.
So we feel good about that production mix being reasonably constant over time.
There will be fluctuations of course as you bring on different packages of wells but we dont expect any material differences.
And those in places like the Mississippi Lime would be consistent with the 40-45% that you saw in the third and fourth quarter?  Or do you expect some sort of degradation over time as wells decline? We had 46% gas in the fourth quarter in the Mississippi Lime so then 45% oil and the rest being NGLs.
And again we dont anticipate any trend difference there over time.
And then just strategically to the degree that gas prices surprise to the down side can we expect that Chesapeake would sell more assets than it would be presently expected or reduce capital?  Or borrow against the revolver? Im sorry could you repeat the question? Yeah if gas prices surprise to the downside should we expect that Chesapeake would reduce capex from current guidance sell more assets than expected or just utilize the revolver and increase debt? You know the first answer there is that 72% of our revenue is hedged for 2013.
So short term impacts to commodity prices wont have the impact that it did have on us last year.
The second answer is that again were very focused on deleveraging over time.
So Ill just probably leave it at that.
We have a lot of leverage we can pull to get there and well continue to be focused on delivering on asset sales be focused on staying within our budgets and reducing our leverage.
Well go next to  Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
I recognize that you guys are still in process on a Mississippian sale but could you give some parameters on the deals that youre looking for both in terms of scope whether its over your whole 2 million acres or timing? Charles I just would really like to not take questions on a pending transaction this morning.
Thats certainly understandable.
The other thing I wanted to ask you guys about maybe this is better for Steve.
I really liked the slides you guys put together on the takeaway in the Marcellus and Utica.
I think you mentioned that the Marcellus takeaway is going to be limited through year end 13 where theres going to be incremental capacity come along but do you view this as more of the last significant hump to get over as far as takeaway or do you view this as the first of many hurdles that youre going to have or that the industrys going to have in the coming years as far as takeaway? You know theres a number of projects as youre well aware.
Some of those projects are more focused on getting us premium market access versus just capacity and then some of course do provide important capacity relief.
Today theres planned a total of additional 3 Bcf of capacity additions as weve noted in that slide.
And some of them have just come on pretty recently.
There will be periods of time where capacity will get ahead of the deliverability of the basin and there will be periods of time where the industry catches up with it.
Its going to be an evolving push and pull that will continue over time.
But I think pretty quickly here particularly with gas prices where they are and rig count where it is you would get to a point where you wouldnt have long term capacity constraints before too terribly long in the basin.
Well go next to Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Just wondering on the Utica that you mentioned looking at that 5-10 Bcf that you gave could you give a little bit on what type of type curve youre expecting there?  Or I guess what Im looking at more specifically is what kind of first-year depletion or if you can give us any depletion levels around those 45 wells that are producing? We are constrained there and really havent been able to produce these wells as we would like.
So thats why we gave a big range in Bcfe.
So Im afraid its just too early to tell.
And the 55 000 is that just for later this year assuming that you have most of this midstream tied in?  Can you maybe walk through it a little bit as far as kind of what youre expecting on the takeaway there how to see that progress in the Utica? Yes to reach that we need all three of those plants up and running before year end which they are on target and expect that to happen.
And then just lastly you mentioned about how good your Eagle Ford results certainly have been.
Just wondering is it just the result of trying to contain the cash flow outspend as far as why cut those rigs there?  To go from 34 to 17 rigs on such a great area just want to hear your comment about if that looks like expectation would be to run kind of run around that going forward? Fortunately most of that is in efficiency gains.
We are still able to produce the same amount of net wells.
And its also not to outrun our infrastructure.
So this is just the right well count to both hold our acreage and be more efficient with our capital.
Well go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Just looking at your 13 capex can you kind of break out what percent of that is dedicated to maybe four drilling commitments?  Or asked differently what percentage is fixed obligations [HBP] drilling etc.
and what percentage is flexible? You know we dont generally provide that breakout.
Suffice it to say we are focused on holding by production our Eagle Ford and other liquids plays that still have some work to do there.
Those also happen to be our highest return plays.
So thats really why we dont focus on looking at it that way.
Were really more focused on what Steve described a few minutes ago which is allocating our rigs to make sure that were focused on returns both near term and longer term returns.
We dont want to get in front of infrastructure.
We want to focus on the efficiencies that were creating.
And we want to try to drill the best wells.
So there are a couple of places where were going to go hold some leases and take care of some commitments but thats really not whats driving our rig allocation this year as much as it is trying to be most effective and efficient at growing our liquids production and focusing on returns.
And then you mentioned in your comments that you achieved about $12 billion in divestitures in 12.
When Im looking at the cash flow statement its highlighting about $10 billion.
Can you walk me through the disconnect or whats rolling over into 13 just based on announcement dates and closure dates etc.
just so we can get a sense of how that feeds into your guidance of $4-7 billion for 13? Just to reconcile the 2012 number remember that one of the things we included in that 12 is the sale of the preferred interest in our Cleveland Tonkawa asset which shows up in the financing section.
So theres no rollover into 13 of that 12 and the 13 number is focused on new projects that well be talking to you guys about.
And then one last one.
If you could kind of give us an update in terms of maybe drilled uncompleted wells or drilled and completed but not tied in in sort of the Marcellus and I guess the Rockies as two potential large growth areas for this next year that would be great.
In the North Marcellus theres still a couple hundred wells to be turned on that we want to get in line this year.
One of the things I would point you to Dave is on page 14 of our release we break out our well costs and we had broken out last year the costs on unproved properties which would be basically dollars that we had spent on wells that were not yet put into the pool because they were not yet proven.
That becomes effectively a balance over time and so youve seen the last two quarters thats a negative number.
So net-net we are decreasing the number of inventory wells in the company at this point and weve done that in the Marcellus and well continue to do that across the company with a few instances where were adding to it into our plays.
But net-net were in a decrease mode.
Well go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
In the Marcellus can you talk a little about the pipeline?  Is that an issue with the specs for the BTU content?  Or can you talk a little about that bottleneck there?  And then when do you guys expect ATEX to come on? We can project a certain amount of ethane and then at some point we do need that pipeline to alleviate our takeaway from the basin but at this point thats really about capacity as much as it is anything.
So we do think that ATEX will come on beginning of 14.
Late 13 beginning of 14.
Weve just heard from other operators and other interested people that ethanes going to be a big bottleneck getting out of the Marcellus over the next couple of years even with additional pipeline capacity.
Whats your snapshot of the current situation up there? We have taken out a pretty good bit of capacity on ATEX and so were feeling good about our ability to move it out of the basin to the Gulf Coast which should get us to the best market available for ethane in the U.S.
We do also have a small amount of [FT] going up to [Sarnia] as well.
Jumping over to the Utica the EURs you put in the press release that 5-10 Bcf could you maybe just talk about what production mix is assumed in that number and then how variable it is across the acreage position?  Just an update overall on the Utica? It is pretty early and a very limited well set so thats why we gave such a big range.
And it does vary across the play so thats all the guidance we can really provide at this time.
All right.
Last question Nick you commented on the condensate oversupply.
Can you just expand on that a little bit and what youre alluding to there? Just pointing to the fact that we are always focused on getting premium pricing for our products and paying attention to what our product mix is and what the supply demand dynamics are for the subproducts if you will in the marketplace.
And given the questions that were raised this week by a number of analysts around condensate pricing we just wanted to comment on it.
In particular in the Eagle Ford our average gravity in the basin is about 45 degrees and then I just wanted to give the color that condensate is less than 10% of our total mix of oil across the company.
So we just thought that was helpful color to provide.
Well go next to Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
First on your production guidance are you assuming less asset sales in the new 2013 guidance?  Or is it the same amount of asset sales as previously assumed? Its approximately the same.
The mix has changed a little bit here and there but we always attempt to show our expectations of asset sales into our guidance unless we tell you otherwise.
And we had that the last time and we have it again this time.
So we show you at the top of that page the expected production impact of what weve assumed to be sold in 2013.
So the difference in the footnote then I assume is the asset sales estimated completed especially the Permian? Right.
The last time we gave an outlook it would have been inclusive of production for the end of 2012 as well as 13.
And then your gas production declined in the fourth quarter.
Was there anything special in those numbers is that an organic decline rate that we saw in the fourth quarter? Well we did have our Permian sale in the fourth quarter which was significant.
There was a lot of gas produced out of the Permian.
And we did manage some [FT] commitments in the Barnett as well which had a minor impact but was something that was not organic.
Well go next to Scott Hanold with RBC.
A little bit on Utica again and Ill try to skin the cat a different way.
When you step back and look at the Utica today versus what you all thought a couple of years back it seems like its a little bit more gassy and the core is a little bit smaller.
Is that a fair statement? Well the gassy part may not be bad.
Those are higher IPs and can be higher rates of return.
And were very pleased with the results that were getting.
So nothing bad to say and no shrink in the core.
Its just early and the results are so variable on the product mix that its difficult to give.
We did give a couple of specific well results in our release today so you guys can look at that and probably draw some conclusions from there.
Theres a lot to learn about this basin still.
Our number of penetrations relative to the number of wells that wed ultimately drill is very small.
And we dont yet have the processing capacity to flow things at full rate yet and theres just a lot to learn.
So thats the reason were being a little bit less informative here just because we feel like we need to learn more before we can say more.
But so far were very very pleased with the play.
What if this does turn out to be a little bit gassier?  Do you see the economics of Utica being a little bit better than the Marcellus?  And would there be a lot of excess gas coming out of the basin?  And you did previously I think Nick in your comments indicate that you all are pretty bullish on gas prices.
And certainly when you step back and look at you guys locking in a lot of your hedging and your production in 2013 it kind of sends a different message.
Can you kind of square the circle around that one? Sure Id be happy to.
When I say were bullish on gas prices from here Im thinking not just about the next couple of months and just 2013 but really thinking further out on the curve as well.
Theres very little contango in the curve and we dont think that accurately reflects the amount of development being put into natural gas today.
Nor does it reflect the potential increases in demand that are becoming less potential and more real around export and around other industrial uses.
Our 50% hedging program for 2013 is really about derisking our plans.
We saw some prices that were respectable within our 2013 plan.
Know that we have a plan that exceeds cash flow and want to make sure that we protect as much of that cash flow as we can.
So I dont think theyre inconsistent and just to be short term protective while still being long term bullish I think makes sense.
As far as the volumes for the Utica Steve will probably have more color there but its a good basin and when markets tell the industry to produce gas there will be some gas that we can look to the Utica to deliver.
So then I would assume your bullishness more on the forward-looking on gas prices is more of a demand-driven than a supply-driven story?  Because certainly theres ample opportunities to ramp up gas pretty quickly in several areas.
We certainly have the ability to ramp up gas when we desire.
I think ramping down and ramping up always takes a little bit longer than the financial markets would like but we have a lot of wells you could go drill in the Haynesville that are on existing pads.
You have a lot of wells you could go drill in the Marcellus on existing pads.
And then certainly in the Barnett as well.
And many in the industry have the same dynamic.
So the industry can respond to demand here for a long period of time and weve got a lot of capacity to do that and the Utica will be another leg to that stool.
But the industry also is doing a pretty good job of giving itself the flexibility of how to respond and when to respond to that demand by holding its acreage by production.
Well go next to Joe Magner with Macquarie Capital.
Just maybe one more attempt at Mississippi Lime.
I realize you dont want to discuss the details but there have been some different structures talked about in the past through this plan to pursue a lump sum JV.
And then that changed to maybe breaking it down into smaller packages.
Any direction on where youre headed with the just kind of overall concept there? I think Im just going to say again we dont really want to discuss a pending transaction.
But we hope to be able to discuss it in great detail with you guys soon.
Okay.
And then in terms of your overall position there can you provide any breakdown between Kansas and Oklahoma?  On the acreage side as well as on the number of wells that have been drilled and the production split between the two states? There is a map in our slide deck so you can see the breakout at least visually by acreage in the play.
But you can also see that all of our rigs are in Oklahoma at the moment as we continue to learn more about the Kansas part.
Page 28 of our investor deck.
And then any anticipated charges or impacts related to firm midstream transportation and processing agreements that are in place given the sale of your midstream interests? We reiterated our guidance around gas differentials and that takes into account the revised structure of those contracts.
Those contracts are basically similar to what we did internally.
Its basically a cost of service approach.
So we can work with [Access] to direct and tell them the capacity we need and theres a cost of capital approach to setting the fees over time.
So we were doing that internally and thats really how our contract has been codified with them to do it externally.
So based on those fees we reiterated our guidance.
We had planned for that when we set this guidance up initially and its still the same.
Any insight into the search process?  Level of interest?  Or any expectations on timing of when a candidate might be identified? No I think Ill have to let the previous comments by the company and the board stand there for now.
And well go next to Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
I had a question on asset sales.
What are you assuming for the timing of these dispositions in your production guidance? Theyre layered in throughout the year as we expect the sales to occur.
So theyre all timed as we think the sales will occur and the impacts will hit our financials.
So youre assuming half of them are done by the middle of the year? I really dont want to get that specific this morning.
Again weve lined them out with the processes that were running some of which are underway now some of which will be underway soon.
And thats just how we have it layered in.
And the Mississippi Lime is of course the nearest term and it is forecasted into our outlook to be the nearest-term impact.
And of the $200 million that youve either closed or have PSAs for what are those?  Can you give us basins or packages that those might be? Mostly acreage.
Theres not a lot of production in that.
And its just packages and non-core acreage.
Any color on which packages? There was a little bit of DJ Basin in there and a little bit of Marcellus and a few other things.
Its a gathering of a few different ones.
And on the working capital I noticed it ticked up a bit.
Whats your long term plan for that working capital going forward? Our working capital tick up a lot of it was driven by the fact that we used a current tax asset attribute to offset some gains from our midstream sale.
That was in excess of $600 million in the quarter.
One thing I would point you to is that our payables were down pretty materially.
Our working capital is a microcosm of our company as Ive noted before.
As activity levels come down our payables will come down.
As commodity prices go up our receivables will go up.
We do of course have partners in a lot of our wells and so you have offsetting effects of as commodity prices go up we have greater revenue payable and as our activity levels come down we have less receivables from partners on operating capex.
But overall its really actually trending in the right direction when you consider the movements for taxes etc.
And the Utica 5-10 Bcf equivalent whats the well cost and lateral link stages on that sort of well? Well costs have come down significantly this last year.
Were down to low to mid-$7 billion per well.
The lateral links are over 5 000.
Dont have that average with me but theyre long laterals.
Well go next to Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering and Holt</strong> I was curious if you could provide us with your current rig count and specifically how we should think about your rig averages in the PRB Haynesville and Barnett for 2013? We detail our current rig count on page eight of our slide deck and so you can see that we have just about 82 operated rigs.
Thats adjusted for Permian.
So from there you asked about which basins again? Pickering and Holt</strong> The PRB Barnett and Haynesville.
Im just looking on slide 15.
You guys have that as about 16% of your drilling and completion capex and I think the PRB was accelerating as of Q3.
So Im curious where the rig count is there.
And then just curious on your Haynesville and Barnett rig count.
I know you guys were at two rigs.
Is that going to pick up in the back half of this year? No weve got both the Barnett and the Haynesville flat at two rigs and the Powder River is at 10.
Pickering and Holt</strong> And then just a couple of other quick questions from me.
In terms of the Eagle Ford can you give us an update on the uncompleted well count? We dont have that number with us this morning.
Its a very dynamic count as we are running a number of rigs there bringing on a lot of infrastructure every day.
But well continue to have a decent number of wells in inventory in the Eagle Ford making lumpy but good progress all year.
There will be times where we bring on a piece of infrastructure that will allow us to connect a bunch of wells at once and so again its pretty lumpy but it will be a challenge throughout this year one which we think we have forecasted appropriately in our plan.
Pickering and Holt</strong> And my final question just on the spending side could you give us any color on a specific number for your spending on OFS midstream and other for 2013? It is down a good bit from last year.
The only growth on oilfield services that we have in this year is a couple of rigs we had ordered early last year that are being delivered.
These are really high-value rigs that are going to be used primarily in the east that are very efficient and great assets for us.
And we have our last two frack spreads that I think are both already now delivered.
So the vast majority of our COS spending is down.
Its significantly lower than last year.
Pickering and Holt</strong> Is there any color on the magnitude of that reduction?  Is it 50%?  Is it 75%?  Is it 25%?  Just trying to get an idea of the magnitude.
More than 50%.
Well go next to Michael Hall with Baird.
Just wanted to dive in a little deeper on the Eagle Ford.
Just first on the efficiency gain cycle time improvements youve been seeing just curious how much further you think you can take that.
And then what percentage of activity is currently on pads versus [unintelligible] capture in 2013 versus 2012? In 2013 we are not able to do a lot of pad drilling because were still in HBP mode.
That will be completed really in the second half of the year.
So that will change throughout the year so we may be as little as 15% now to really by the end of this year once were complete it will basically be at 100%.
And so we do anticipate for 2014 to have pretty significant additional improvements in our efficiency.
And then on the proposed acreage sales in the Eagle Ford were there any lease-hold expiration issues that might be considered in evaluating that deal? No the core part of it can all be easily held by production.
Well go next to Marshall Carver with Capital One Southcoast.
On the Utica you talked about the 5-10 Bcf per well.
Across what percentage of your million net acres do you think you can get those recoveries?  How much has been derisked at this point? Were you referring to the Total JV box which is about 450 net?  We think there is a lot of gas but mostly dry in the remainder of it and so theres been very few tests in it but our geologists think theres a significant amount of gas in place.
But would probably be on the high side of that on a Bcf basis.
On the production mix in the Utica could you at least give us the production mix for the year-end target that you mentioned?  And is that a gross or a net number that you mentioned? That is a net number.
But its a function of wells that we get hooked up on because theres such a variable on the mix.
But you can look at the wells in our press release and get kind of an idea from those IPs what were seeing.
We are attempting to drill as close to infrastructure through the year as we can and so Id like to think that the wells that we showed you there are going to be representative of at least a good bit of the wells we drill this year.
They wont be all like that but therell be a lot.
And do you have the expected number of wells to be put on production over the year? Dont have that with us this morning.
Well go next to Joe Allman - JPMorgan.
A question on the funding gap.
So if you just look at your total spending not just the items you give guidance for but total spending and you compare that to your expected cash flow whats your estimate of the funding gap for 2013? About $4 billion.
So then on the low end of what youre going to sell youll hit your capex and on the high end youll hit your capex plus you would pay down debt? Thats correct.
And is it still the companys goal to get long term debt down to $9.5 billion? Yeah I think were absolutely focused on getting the company deleveraged financially and were very intent on getting to investment grade metrics getting to a much stronger balance sheet.
We picked $9.5 billion a couple of years ago.
Thats still a pretty good number when you look at it from an investment grade metrics standpoint.
But were two years more now from when we set that goal and well always probably look at it on a pretty fluid basis.
It could ultimately go lower than that could be a bit different.
But in general significant deleveraging is absolutely the plan and wont change.
And the two big assets that youve got out there that youve identified are the Mississippian which youre close to it sounds like and then the Eagle Ford Shale North.
Will those two get you pretty darn close to the $4 billion? Im going to let those deals speak for themselves as they happen but we have a number of things that well do this year.
Is it your goal even though you havent disclosed it to sell other significant assets of the size of say the Mississippian or Eagle Ford Shale North that you just simply havent disclosed to enable you to cover your capex plus pay down a significant portion of debt? I think its fair to say that some of the things we plan to sell are bigger than others and theres again a number of projects that will get us to that ultimate number.
And is the goal to sell as much non-cash flow generating stuff?  Can you get there?  Or do you need to really get into some cash flow generating assets to raise the money you want to raise? Its a balance but of course from a strategic perspective you always like the idea of selling assets that are not producing cash flow today and are going to be more valuable to someone else than they are to us which by definition would mean that they have less cash associated with them.
And whats the status of the Eagle Ford Shale North sale? Well be speaking to you guys about that when the time comes and just dont really want to discuss pending transactions today.
When I look at your 2013 product guidance in the note that you have underneath toward the top of the guidance now youre including about 35 Bcfe of asset sales in your current guidance.
Previous it was at 140 Bcfe.
You kept your guidance the same.
So does that mean that the non for sale production is actually lower than what you previously thought?  And if so why would that be? The prior guidance really reflected the asset sales that we were expecting to complete in the last half of 2012 and reflected the production that those assets would have in 2013.
Specifically the Permian Basin sale.
Our current guidance really just reflects the incremental transactions that we have for 2013.
Im not sure if I fully understand.
Is there kind of a reduction in your non for sale assets? Theres no change.
Its just reflecting that weve already closed certain transactions that were part of the production associated with our guidance.
Theres no change.
Okay.
So I guess youre referring to the Permian for the most part? Yes.
So in your prior guidance the fact that the Permian was going to be gone was already in your prior guidance right?  Schedule B? Thats correct.
So that difference between the 140 Bcfe and 35 youre saying thats Permian? Primarily.
Great.
Well I think thats about all the time that we have.
Weve gone past the top of the hour.
We appreciate everyone attending our call today and if you have follow up questions please contact myself Jeff Mobley or Gary Clark.
Have a good day.
Good day everyone welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Q1 2013 Earnings Conference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn things over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2013 first quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and updated investor presentation that we have posted to our website.
During the course of this call our commentary will include forward-looking statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these factors is available on our earnings release and the Companys SEC filings.
We also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures and we encourage you to read the full disclosure and GAAP reconciliations located on our website in this mornings press release.
I would next like to introduce the members of management here on the call with me today; Steve Dixon our acting Chief Executive Officer; Nick DellOsso our Chief Financial Officer; and Jeff Fisher our Executive Vice President of Production and Gary Clark our Vice President of Investor Relations and Research.
Well begin with prepared commentary from Steve Nick and Jeff and then we will move to Q&amp;A.
Steve? Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone and thanks for attending this conference call.
Im pleased to report that Chesapeake is off to a strong start in 2013.
Were beginning to see the benefits of our operational strategy shift from identifying and capturing new assets to developing our extensive existing assets as we enter a new era of shareholder value realization.
Our operational focus on the core of the core is enabling our drilling program to increasingly target the best reservoir rock in each of our key plays.
Were capitalizing on pad drilling efficiencies wherever possible and leveraging our substantial investments in roads well pads gathering lines and compression and processing facilities.
As a result we are generating more efficient production growth stronger cash flow and better returns on capital.
We continue to make substantial progress delivering on four key initiatives developing our existing asset heightening our operational excellence increasing capital efficiency and focusing on financial discipline.
Nick DellOsso and Jeff Fisher will provide additional details on these important initiatives.
But first I would like to highlight several significant accomplishments.
Our adjusted net income per share of $0.30 rose 67% from the year ago first quarter.
Our total first quarter net production grew 9% year-over-year and 1% sequentially to 4 bcfe per day.
Our liquids production mix increased to 24% of our total production of this 19% a year ago.
Our combined production and G&amp;A cost decreased 26% year-over-year to $1.11 per mcfe.
Our first quarter upstream CapEx was at or below budget.
We have signed or closed on $2 billion of asset sales towards our $4 billion to $7 billion target we have a number of other E&amp;P and midstream divestitures in advanced stages of negotiation which will share [we want] definitive agreements at least in the next few weeks or months.
In quarter end our liquidity was more than $3.2 billion through cash are available revolver capacity.
Our safety program recently achieved an industry standard of excellence with our E&amp;P segments surpassing more than 1.5 million man hours without a recordable injury.
And weve implemented substantial corporate governance and executive compensation measures to further strengthen the company by enhancing oversight and accountability.
Weve received variable court determinations dismissing multiple shareholder losses including the dismissal of class action concerning at July 2008 note offering.
And the dismissal of reported class action concerning issues that was subject to considerable press coverage in late spring in summer of 2012.
Lastly but importantly natural gas markets have improved materially in the last few months and signs of long-term demand growth are beginning to materialize across multiple market segments we believe this does two important things for Chesapeake it improved the profitability and a mixed gassy assets in our portfolio more valuable and more attractive to buyers in the E&amp;P market.
In summary we are solidly on track in gaining strength as we look ahead to the second quarter and the back half of this year.
Id next like to discuss the progress of our leadership transition and Chesapeake strategic plans for 2013 and beyond.
As disclosed on April 1 Chesapeake established a new three-person office of the Chairman.
That office consists of myself Archie Dunham our Independent Non-Executive Chairman and Nick Dell'Osso our CFO.
The leadership transition process has been smooth and effective.
As acting CEO I greatly appreciate Archies and Nicks support as well as the support and assistance of our senior management team and our 12 000 employees.
Our management team and the Board of Directors are excited about the Companys business strategy and objectives that weve outlined.
The path forward for Chesapeake and its shareholders will be very different from our past.
This is a very important development for our company.
Recognize though that this strategy transition is a natural evolution design to capitalize on the durable competitive advantages created by Chesapeake during the unconventional resource revolution of the past decade.
We believe the results of this strategy shift  have begun to be reflected in our operational results over the past three quarters and we expect them to continue to bear fruit for many years to come.
Our asset teams are focused on operational excellence which for us means a sharp focus on safety regulatory compliance environmental stewardship process improvement cycle time reduction and leveraging economies of scale.
Im confident that our execution of this strategy quarter-after-quarter will deliver material improvements to shareholder returns.
Turning briefly to our financial strategy we are optimizing our portfolio and allocating approximately 85% of our drilling completion capital to liquids plays in 2013.
We are largely deferring drilling on dry gas plays until natural gas prices recover enough to generate competitive returns with our liquids plays.
Were diligently working to reduce and eventually eliminate our funding gap which we now estimate will be approximately $3.5 billion in 2013.
Achieving a low end of our asset sales target of $4 billion will enable us to fully fund our 2013 investments and maintain long-term debt at or below year-end 2012 levels.
Asset sales above $4 billion will enable us to achieve approximately all of our long-term debt reduction objectives.
We are committed to maintaining financial discipline while reducing the financial risk and complexity.
In conclusion I would like to remind you that we own extraordinary assets in the top resource plays in America.
We own integrated oilfield service assets that help us sustain the most active drilling program in the nation and help drive safety and efficiencies throughout our operations while also insulating against future oilfield service cost inflation.
And lastly and most importantly we have an exceptionally talented and dedicated workforce that has collectively drilled more horizontal wells that any company in the  industry.
In my 22 years with Chesapeake I have never been more excited and energized about our future.
The era of shareholder value realization at Chesapeake is now underway.
I look forward to leading this new era.
Thank you again for joining us on this call.
I will now turn it over to Nick for his comments on the quarter.
Good morning and thanks Steve.
As Steve mentioned our strong first quarter results demonstrated the successful execution of our ongoing strategic initiatives.
Adjusted earnings per share in the first quarter were $0.30 which was up from $0.26 in the fourth quarter and $0.18 per share in the 2012 first quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA also saw an uptick in the quarter to $1.13 billion up from $1.09 billion in the fourth quarter and $838 million in the 2012 first quarter.
I am pleased to report that our first quarter oil production of $103 100 barrels per day was once again ahead of plan and was up 6% sequentially and 56% year-over-year.
This growth was primarily driven by strong contributions from the Eagle Ford and Greater Anadarko Basin plays which Jeff Fisher will discuss in more detail.
NGL production came in at approximately 54 300 barrels per day up 8% sequentially and 14% year-over-year.
As a result of better than expected performance in our Eagle Ford and Greater Anadarko Basin plays we are increasing our overall 2013 oil production guidance by 1 million barrels to a new range of 37 million to 39 million barrels.
Conversely as we noted on our last conference call our line of sight is lower for NGL production this year and we are reducing our 2013 NGL production guidance by 1 million barrels to between 23 million and 25 million barrels.
This is primarily due to natural gas processing infrastructure delays in Utica and Niobrara as well as liquids rig allocation changes to more oily plays in the Anadarko Basin.
We are also raising our 2013 natural gas production guidance to a range of 1.06 to 1.09 Tcf which is an increase of 2% versus the prior range.
This is primarily due to stronger than expected natural gas production from our Marcellus play.
These guidance changes are detailed on page 16 of our press release under Schedule A.
Turning now to capital expenditures.
We operated an average of 83 rigs in the quarter and invested approximately $1.5 billion in drilling and completions which is a run rate consistent with the $6 billion midpoint of our 2013 guidance.
Net lease hold expenditures on unproved properties were $45 million putting this on track to be in line or below $400 million budget for the year.
Our CapEx was approximately -- other CapEx was approximately $345 million which includes $62 million for CapEx spends on the two remaining midstream systems that we are divesting.
We anticipate recovery of this CapEx as these assets are sold.
The other CapEx also include $69 million for final delivery of two pressure pumping spreads and 3 rigs that were ordered in early 2012.
There are three additional rigs to be received during this quarter after which we have no additional plans for material growth of our oilfield services assets.
Consequently other CapEx for 2013 is heavily  front-end loaded and will decline substantially in the second third and fourth quarters.
Ill further note that as a result of an expected decline in leasehold midstream oilfield services and other CapEx versus last year and further decreases going forward 80% of our total CapEx will be spent on drilling and completion activities in 2013 versus an average of just 50% over the last three years.
We believe this capital allocation trend will be more pronounced in 2014 when we plan to dedicate nearly 90% of our total CapEx to drilling and completion activities.
We are now clearing seeing the benefits of our past investments in leasehold oilfield services and other assets which no longer require significant capital investment.
Production cost during the quarter averaged $0.86 per Mcfe which is down 18% from $1.05 per Mcfe in the year-ago quarter.
We continue to make good progress on lowering G&amp;A expenses as well which averaged $0.25 per Mcfe during the first quarter down 29% from $0.35 per Mcfe in the year-ago quarter.
Per unit production costs and G&amp;A were both up slightly versus fourth quarter of 2012 which as we noted  on our last call contained several one-time items.
Im pleased to announce the reduction in our 2013 per unit production cost and G&amp;A guidance ranges for the second quarter in a row.
We now project that production cost will range from $0.85 to $0.90 per Mcfe for the year down $0.05 per Mcfe versus prior guidance.
We projected G&amp;A expenses will range from $0.30 to $0.35 per Mcfe down $0.04 per Mcfe per prior  guidance.
These decreases in expense guidance amount to an approximate $100 million expected improvement to our 2013 operating cash flow.
Id now like to address progress with regard to asset sales.
We signed or closed $2 billion of asset sales year-to-date segmented as follows; in the first quarter weve received $366 million of cash proceeds on sales including $45 million of hold backs received  from last years Permian sale.
In Q2 thus far we have received cash proceeds of $262 million on sales including $40 million of hold backs from last years Permian sale.
And lastly we have signed purchase and sale agreements on $1.4 billion of asset sales that are not yet closed.
The largest portion of this is our Mississippi Lime transaction with Sinopec which we anticipate closing before the end of the second quarter and also includes the sale of midstream assets in the Mississippi Lime play to SemGroup which was announced by the buyer this morning.
In addition we anticipate signing agreements to sell our Northern Eagle Ford and remaining midstream assets during the second quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet; on March 31 we had a total debt balance of $13.4 billion including $832 million drawn on our corporate revolver.
On April 1 weve completed a $2.3 billion senior note offering at the lowest interest rate in the company history.
As a reminder the use of proceeds for this offering is solely for refinancing and will not be used for general corporate purposes.
Accordingly on April 15 we used a portion of the proceeds to complete tender offers for approximately $594 million of debt which represents portions of our outstanding 2013 and 2018 nets.
As an insight I would like point out that our credit default swaps reported yesterday at 310 basis points which we believe is the lowest level since August of 2011.
We also paid off the balance of our corporate revolver subsequent to March 31.
Next I would like to address our hedge position for 2013 and 2014.
In 2013 we have put in place downside protection on approximately 78% of our projected natural gas production at an average price of $3.72 per Mcf.
On the oil side we have downside  protection on roughly 88% of our expected volumes at an average price of $95.43 per barrel.
For 2014 we used recent strength in natural gas prices to hedge approximately 13% of our projected gas production at $4.33 per Mcf.
We have also put in place 2014 oil hedges that project our downside on approximately 40% of our projected production at an average price of $93.63 per barrel which is well above the current NYMEX strip.
With that Id like to turn the call over to Jeff Fisher to discuss operations in more detail.
Thank you Nick.
We are continuing to see tangible efficiency gains across our key plays from increased pad drilling reduced cycle times and targeting the best reservoirs in the core of the core of our acreage.
Before I get to the discussion of our specific play performance let me describe a number of operational initiatives that highlight our commitment to project execution capital efficiency and safety.
To augment our more focused development programs we are leveraging automation systems and enhanced work processes to improve operational efficiencies and drive down the cost.
As an example we have developed a high tech drilling operation center in Oklahoma City where technicians monitor and manage drilling performance in the steering of horizontal wells real time 24/7.
In addition to better managing our staff resources we are realizing better drilling performance improved logistics and lower cost.
This center has been expanded to incorporate real time monitoring of pressure pumping and production operations where we expect to see similar benefits.
Our teams have also been applying lean manufacturing concepts to improve project execution in the field.
As an example these practices have led to a revamp of our rig move processes in which we have been able to reduce cycle times by up to 45%.
Were expanding these practices to enhance many other aspects of our operations and we look forward to continuing improvement.
And importantly these programs also improved safety performance and as Steve noted we are very pleased with our progress on that front.
In addition to improving capital efficiency going forward these initiatives are also contributing to the lower production cost performance that Nick discussed.
I would now like to discuss our operations in four key plays: the Eagle Ford the Utica the Greater Anadarko Basin and the Marcellus.
As Nick noted in his remarks were increasing our overall 2013 oil production guidance by 1 million barrels.
This is largely attributable to outstanding results in the Eagle Ford where we are drilling longer laterals achieving better than expected well performance and benefitting from increased gathering system and processing capacity.
During the first quarter we drilled 91 new wells while bringing online a 111 wells at average peak rates of 950 boe per day.
As infrastructure continues to develop we remain on plan to reduce excess well inventory by drilling a total of 300 wells while bringing online approximately 400 wells to sales by year-end.
First quarter liquids production in the Eagle Ford averaged 61 600 barrels per day.
This was an increase of 44 100 barrels per day or 251% year-over-year and an increase of 10 800 barrels per day or 21% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
To remind everybody we are targeting a year-end 2013 exit rate of approximately 71 000 barrels of liquids per day and a total production exit rate of 92 000 boe per day net from the Eagle Ford.
On average Eagle Fords spud-to-spud cycle time during the first quarter was 18 days down 28% year-over-year.
We executed 30% more frac stages versus the prior quarter and we continue to make progress at our completion practices.
Longer term were targeting an average spud-to-spud cycle time of approximately 30 days in full pad development mode and an average completed well cost of $6.5 million for a 6300 foot lateral.
In the second half of 2013 we anticipate that 50% of our Eagle Ford wells will be drilled on multi well pads versus only 15% during the first half of 2012.
Looking ahead 2014 we believe more than 75% of our wells in this play will be drilled on multi-well pads.
Based on an assessment of more than 600 wells drilled and brought online to date in our core Eagle Ford we conservatively estimate that our average type well across the core will yield a EUR of 570 000 boe.
Assuming an average well cost of $6.5 million we expect to generate pre-tax rates return ranging from 30% to 80%.
Pro forma for the sale of our Northern Eagle Ford assets we conservatively estimate a drilling inventory of more than 3500 high quality development locations representing an inventory of more than 10 years based on current activity levels.
In the Utica play we have drilled 249 wells of which 66 are completed and flowing to sales as of first quarter.
Production is relatively flat versus our operations update call one-month ago as the new processing infrastructure that we spoke of has not yet come online.
We now expect the next step change in our Utica production will occur closer to mid year that are maintaining our year end exist rate target of 330 million cubic feet equivalent per day net.
In that April 1 update call we discussed the impressive results we have seen in our Scott unit in Carroll County.
Today I would like to highlight our co-unit also in Carroll County which is delivering strong production rates and has yielded some excellent pad drilling capital efficiency gains.
We drilled six miles from a common pad with an average 24-hour restricted flow rate of 1 170 boe per day consisting of 75 barrels of oil 280 barrels of NGL have reduced ethane recovery and 4.9 million cubic feet of natural gas per day with flowing tubing pressures exceeding 2400 PSI.
The cost of the first well on this pad including related infrastructure was nearly $8.5 million the next five wells on the pad were drilled and completed at an average cost of only $5.9 million for a 30% decrease.
Turing now to the Greater Anadarko Basin where we are principally targeting five places: The Mississippi Lime Cleveland Tonkawa we had 28 rigs running in this basin and had combined first quarter net production of 114 000 boe per day which is up 9 500 boe per day from the fourth quarter or 9% sequentially.
This was in spite of some fairly substantial winter weather related downtime during the quarter that impacted our production by nearly 5 000 boe per day.
Now let me give you a few specific play highlights from the Greater Anadarko.
In the Mississippi Lime we have substantially completed our water disposing infrastructure projects across the majority of our core development areas.
We believe this will results in improved efficiencies for turning wells to sales and will reduce construction and water disposal cost going forward.
Our measured pace in science-based approach to this play is also generating improved well performance and returns on capital.
We turned 32 Miss Line wells to sales in the first quarter at average peak rates of 540 boe per day with five of those wells in excess of 1 000 boe per day.
We are actively shooting 3D across our core development areas to assist with the geomodeling and mapping techniques we are employing to further refine prospect identification.
In short we believe that we have the development strategy that will result in the most efficient and cost effective way to develop this play and we are eager to move forward with our soon-to-be-partner Sinopec.
Our Hogshooter Play also continues to generate outstanding results.
We turned 14 wells to sales in the first quarter at average peak rates of 2 380 boe per day.
Our best well the Roark Trust 1H tested at a peak flow rate of more than 4 570 boe per day outstanding results.
Our teams have identified more than 50 remaining Hogshooter locations and have been successful in further extending the play to the east of our original development area.
Indeed we believe the Greater Anadarko holds the treasure chest of opportunity and we have the teens and the acreage to maximize the value for our shareholders.
And finally Id like to note that in our Marcellus region where we are the industrys largest natural gas producer we recently achieved a gross operated natural gas production milestone of more than 2 bcf equivalent per day.
As gas prices have recovered nicely from year ago levels we are benefiting greatly from strong growth and returns in both the Northern dry and the Southern wet gas portions of the play.
Natural gas production in the first quarter was up an impressive 58% year-over-year and 9% sequentially versus the fourth quarter.
You will note from our press release that we are bringing online outstanding wells in our Marcellus position that our recent results in the Southern portion of our Marcellus north dry gas play really stand out.
Extending from our position in Susquehanna County west toward into Northern Wyoming and Southern Bradford County lies the most prolific portion of our acreage position that is yielding amazing performance.
We have brought online a number of recent wells in this area that are flowing a restricted rates in excess of 12 million cubic feet per day.
Based on results of over 150 producing wells in this area we are currently estimating per well recoveries of over 10 bcf.
We own approximately 100 000 net acres and have over 1 000 remaining development locations to drill in this core of the core.
And let me close by saying that Im pleased with our liquids production growth capital efficiency gains safety performance and per unit cost performance to date and believe that there is much more to come.
I very much look forward to the second half of 2013 when we will see a fairly substantial acceleration of pad drilling in a number of our key plays and we expect to realize production growth in the Utica has gas processing capacity is completed.
Ill now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Nick and Jeff.
Well now turn it over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Well first to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Dave.
Real quickly kind of all things being equal if we think about the timing of the divestitures that you guys have planned and that has occurred year-to-date.
How does that impact the uptick were seeing in production guidance or should I be thinking about it as those actual timing of divestitures really had no impact to your forward plan and the uptick in production is specifically  related to just asset performance? Yeah Dave its predominantly asset performance.
There has been very very little from sliding on the asset sales.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then previously you guys had talked about that the divestitures would be broken into kind of two different components a few large ones and then a number of smaller divestitures.
As you think about smaller divestitures are those going to be equally taxing on the staff to get those completed and obviously that increases the number of divestitures.
Does that create any concern with respect to meeting the guidance of $4 billion to $7 billion? Yeah no concerns whatsoever.
We have identified those packages and they have actually been in process for a number of months now Dave.
So a lot of that hard work has already been done by our staff.
So things are proceeding as planned and I dont see any changes.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then one last one just kind of relative to the Marcellus sale  that was announced earlier.
It looks like that was non-op interest was that previously baked into capital spending rates and was there any concern that that might move aggressively forward in 2013 and why it was targeted as something that you wanted to unload in the Marcellus or is it just purely its not core of the core? Yeah Dave its mostly we had outlined where we wanted to focus our activities and our capital spend and it was outside of that so it was a targeted divestiture for us because of that.
Okay I appreciate that color.
Thank you.
Well hear next from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Hey good morning.
I just wanted to clarify on the guidance the updated guidance assumes that you would reach the bottom end of your sales target of $4 billion Nick is that consistent with what youd outlined previously in terms of guidance based on the low end of the $4 billion to $7 billion target -- sales target? Yeah thats right Arun.
Our production -- our revised production guidance assumes the same set of transactions as previous and so we are aiming for the low end of the range within that production guidance and still have confidence that we will be well into the range so should our production guidance need to be adjusted in the future well do so and when we do so well also update you all on how we would plan to apply those proceeds to debt reduction.
Okay thanks for clarifying that just a general question -- you had some impressive growth looking at the Eagle Ford Anadarko and Marcellus all on a period where your rig counts have come in a lot just wondering if you could maybe comment on what you are doing on the completion side youve talked about completing more wells and you are drilling I was just wondering how long does this call it a tailwind last for where you have more completion activity relative to wells you are drilling? Go ahead Jeff Ill let you answer that.
Sure.
So we are catching up on inventory in several of our plays specifically in Eagle Ford.
And as I commented I think in that particular play we should be kind of caught up with what we would call an abnormal inventory or backlog by the end of the year.
A lot of it is still related to midstream infrastructure and just timing of bringing wells on most of that were working through with our midstream partners and have line of sight to deliver those mostly by this year and maybe a little bit into the first quarter of next year.
But the fact does remain that even with our reduced rig count we are completing more wells than were drilling company-wide right now and thats really by design to help us to get caught up and improve our capital efficiency.
Okay and just a very quick follow-up on the Utica.
What midstream project should we be watching in terms of trying to get -- as you try to get to that 330 target by year end which pipeline project should we be watching? Actually more processing Natrium will be the first one on which should be in May so this month.
Then Momentum is a big one mid year so those -- processing is really the hold  up and those two are the largest projects.
In our slide presentation we outlined this on page 17.
Okay.
That talks about these various projects.
Thank you very much.
And Bob Morris with Citigroup has our next question.
Thank you.
Steve your comments with regard to the high end and low end of range in paying down $4 billion $7 billion of debt seemed to imply that paying down debt to $9.5 billion by year end is not as hard of a target as it was before that they may slip out further into 2014.
Is that correct and what is driving that is that just a slower pace of getting the asset sales down or just what underscores that push-out I guess of the $9.5 billion target? Well were focused on the asset sales done at a minimum of 4 if we get to 7 we can actually achieve that Nick do you have anything else to add to that? Yeah.
Bob I would just say from a goal perspective the goal hasnt changed which is an absolute reduction in our debt.
We are noticeably as you have said being a little bit less specific about the precise timing of that because we want to preserve the optionality to get the right deals done on the right time for the right assets.
There are no changes in our strategy.
We are refining our assets that we hold in our portfolio to be as efficient as possible that leads to an opportunity to sell assets and well use those proceeds from asset sales to reduce debt and we will absolutely get to that lower debt number but we want to be a little bit cautious about exactly what we said because we want to make sure and hit the expectations.
Sure.
Now in that regard Steve youve made the comment that the stronger gas price environment has made some of your gas assets more attractive to buyers.
So what gas assets might move up in the queue to be sold? In that regard what are you looking at or what or is there something there that may move up in the queue given the strong gas price environment per your comment? Bob we are not talking about any specific assets but clearly with movement in the market it has been a buying signal for buyers out there and were getting a lot of interest from a large set of buyers.
So you would now consider more so than before selling not saying what specifically but selling some material gas assets at this point then? Yes at the right price we certainly would.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Well move on to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you good morning.
Youve talked about the 100 000 acres that core of core in the Marcellus and in the slide that you go through that you also highlight the larger circle that encompasses the core can you talk about your acreage position and what you would call the core in Northeast Pennsylvania and how you are thinking about developing those acres versus selling those acres? Brain this is Steve.
We dont plan on selling any of that core acreage.
We are just -- as we have our position HPPd now we can allocate our capital to our highest returns and certainly having a 1000 locations that is in that core of core area thats where most of our drilling activity is going to be in the near future.
Thanks and I guess of the 1.5 million acres that you have in Northern Marcellus -- dry gas Marcellus what would be in core plus core of core 10 000 and core of core -- whats the position that you would classify in the core? I know that have that with me here Brain but it would be multiples of that core of core.
Okay thanks and then Im going back to the Eagle Ford Large inventory Thanks and then going to the Eagle Ford youve talked about your 570 boe type curve and I think on one of your slide you mentioned that the average so far has been a little bit less than that.
Has it been the recent results and recent completions that is kind of inspiring to average that up and can you talk about of the inventory highlighted what percent of our Eagle Ford acreage position that applies to in terms of core of core? Brian Im throwing that to Jeff.
Yeah so it is based on improving results I mean our results are improving in this play continuously.
And thats why we say we think were being conservative in our estimates because were still on the uptick.
So it is swayed by recent improvements but it does include most all of the wells that weve drilled today.
We took out of few wells that were science wells and where we were doing experimentation.
So its a solid a very solid reserve number.
And it applies to essentially everything that we will end up retaining in the Eagle Ford.
As you know wed looked at selling kind of a non-core position in our northern Eagle Ford asset there and the type curves and economics that were presenting really applied to everything else that we will have remaining which is quite substantial.
And can you quantify the acreage you expect to retain there? Great.
Thank you very much.
Well move next to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Well thanks.
Good morning everybody.
I got a couple questions also.
Can I start off with the on the disposals also that $2 billion youve got line of sight now but Im guessing the commentary sense right youve got fairly good line of sight and what comes next? So I realized that were all focused on the 47 range.
But just in terms of trying to qualify how you see progress towards meeting the bottom end of that range.
Can you just give some some feels to what your line of sight looks like for the balance of this year? And then Ive got a couple of operating questions.
Doug we have a number of additional assets sales that are in various stages but many where we have basically terms agreed to and were just trading the paperwork and exhibits.
So its given us great confidence to be ahead of our projections on our asset sales for the year.
When you say ahead you mean what is the target for the year the range is pretty wide so when you say you are ahead do you mean you are going to meet the bottom end of the range or can you go little bit more specific? We will meet the bottom end of the range certainly.
Based on what youve got line of sight on right now.
Yes sir.
Okay great.
Thank you my operating questions are really its like you try to maybe and then Ill leave it there one on the Utica youre still sticking within the 30 million target for the end of the year.
But can you help us a little bit with what the mix is going to look like as we progress through the year because obviously you havent really given us detail as to how the that the focus is going to be in terms of targeting of more of the liquid rich areas to the play? Weve given examples of our well results and that mix is where most of our drilling rigs are running in our activity and so it would be similar to those results.
Okay so about 40% liquids roughly it looks like? Jeff do you know that number.
Jr.</strong> Yes roughly.
All right okay.
And finally on the Anadarko Basin the 28 rigs that you are running could you just give us the breakdown as to where theyve have focused as obviously the implications of being more rigs in the (inaudible) and other areas could be significant so Ill leave it with that? Thank you.
Thanks Doug roughly we have three in the Tonkawa six in the Cleveland four in the Colony Wash three in Texas Pan Hannah Wash and two to four running in the Hogshooter play and Mississippi at eight as of the 28 thats approximately where everyones running.
All right great.
Thanks fellas.
And Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt has our next question.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Good morning.
Just a few quick questions for me.
Im just trying to understand a little better how you guys think about your rig count as you exist this year.
So just wanted to see if there is any other moving parts I know you mentioned the deceleration in the Eagle Ford.
But curious if there is any other areas we should think about acceleration of rigs or most the other plays going to be relatively flat and then I have a few quick follow-ups.
Hey Matt.
Were really not changing our planned net wells drilled and turned in line the reduction in rig count in the Eagle Ford throughout this year has just been because of our cycle times and improved efficiencies.
So our capital spend and activity level are still the same.
We have no big plans to change throughout this year.
Our focus is financial discipline and meeting our budget targets.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Great.
And then just within the Eagle Ford Im trying to understand a little bit better.
As you bring down the rig count there I think you mentioned 18 days of cycle time and we kind of roughly calculate I think 250 to 275 wells drilled under that cycle time.
Is that roughly how we should think about the run rate well count for you guys going forward? Or is there any other color you could provide just on the kind of 14 run rate from a well count perspective? Well for 2013 Matt its right at 300 wells spud and 400 wells turned in line as we burn off some of that inventory.
We have not provided guidance yet for 2014 but our cycle times continue to improve and we will be doing more and more pad drilling in the second half of this year and certainly much more in 2014 that will continue to improve our cycle times and capital efficiency.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Thank you.
And then just my last question as we think about your Marcellus position obviously in the core of the core at 450 gas I would assume your returns on 10 bcf wells are extremely strong.
I wanted to get a little bit more color on how you guys think about your gas returns at 450 in the Marcellus versus some of your more marginal acreage on the liquids plays? And if you would consider any acceleration as the gas price improves or at what price would you look at accelerating your gas rig count? Matt its been part of that Northern Marcellus is constrains on gathering and takeaway out of the basin.
And so that will improve towards the end of this year and we do hope then we will be able to add rigs back and grow our Marcellus production.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Thank you very much.
And Neal Dingmann with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey have our next question.
Good morning guys.
Steve either for you or Jeff just wondering to focusing on the Utica here for a second.
I know you mentioned about I guess production expected to be about the same despite having a two more wells behind pipe relating to be tied in.
Are you assuming that that 14 rig count will still be able to stay rather constant or you will have to ramp that a little bit to the remainder of the year to still hit that number? We actually might be able to reduce rigs there because our cycle times are improving so much.
So just like the Eagle Ford not reduction in number of net wells to turn on but just our efficiencies are improving.
But with the pace that we are on we will be able to meet those objectives and significantly grow production here in the last half of this year.
And in your slides though you mentioned on that co-unit how youre able to cut cost? On these pads whats kind of an average these days as far as what youre doing as far as lateral length and then in kind of frac stages? Is that staying pretty constant or you are able to or are you reducing that as you are able to bring cost down? Yeah those cost reductions really arent achieved by downsizing the well so to speak so were typically going 6 000 feet in the Utica anywhere from 13 to 18 stages we are doing some experimentation on our completions and delineating the field the main cost savings really come from utilization of the pad of the infrastructure that we have to spend money upfront and then just the drilling efficiencies that we see by learning from subsequent wells so its very exciting very repeatable and were not degrading performance in any way with our designs in fact these are just very very strong well so our well performance continues to improve in the field and well do some more experimenting on completions and optimization there is a lot of talk about that weve got some great folks that do that work and are well in tune with the latest technologies.
And as you said I know you mentioned about kind of self still some of the non core in that play just optimally what ideally you would end up maybe was at the end of the year or maybe not really specifically broken that out yet? Yeah no specifics on that yet Neil.
Okay and then just lastly in order to hit some of these goals lot of guys have talked about lot of their asset sales et cetera maybe for Nick or one of the guys just your thought to would you still consider putting some of these more mature assets in like a royalty trust structure or VPPs have you done in the past or is it just pure asset sales were looking at? At this point we really focused on straight asset sales we see pretty good value there today and it certainly allows us to achieve less financial complexity.
Okay thank you all great quarter.
Thank you.
We will go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning couple of questions for whoever can you talk about what subsequent you have built into your four year guidance? We dont have any ethane rejection in our guidance at this point.
All right Eagle Ford.
I think Jeff mentioned well costs your target [6.5] at that 570 EUR what are your current well cost in the Eagle Ford? Current well cost are in the $7 million range I think we discussed that at the operational update a month ago again steady improvement down from 9 early in the play I think 8 a year ago and weve got very high confidence in our 6.5 projection keep in mind we are drilling a little bit longer laterals and some in the play at 6 300 feet we made and push that a little bit more.
But thats where we are at.
Okay fair enough and condensate whats your condensate in oil cut in the basin? You are talking about Eagle Ford? Eagle Ford I am sorry yeah.
Yeah I think we are roughly at 60% oil 20% NGL and 20% gas we will check those numbers that most of our liquids production there at least on the oil side is 45 degree gravity oil weve got some condensate down in the wet gas window but think of our mix is 45 degree spot on premium oil Okay good.
And then last question Anadarko Basin gets about 30 year CapEx but can you give us more clarity I was going to say kind of get the short shift but can you give us more clarity exactly outside the Mississippi Lime which is obviously well documented.
Can you talk about the Granite Wash Cleveland Tonkawa Hogshooter? Can you write those for tell us or just tell us where the focuses are? I know you said you had three four rigs in different plays.
So can you just give us some color on overall what youre doing out there? Sure Dave.
In Western Oklahoma for the most parts some of that overlaps in Texas Panhandle so its in Chesapeakes kind of core Anadarko Basin position.
And our asset teams are just targeting the highest potential wells and focused on drilling our very best well next.
And you know there is a variety of pace in Anadarko Basin and were allocating depending on what this prospects look like.
Again Jeff can you add on to that Jeff? Yeah I would just add that we group the Anadarko Basin at our conversion today just because we look at it as a very broad prolific basin with multi-pays and its stack pays its Stratigraphy trends throughout the basin.
And we just have a huge core acreage position there that we are exploiting.
Ill take you as far as some advancements in our Hogshooter Cleveland Tonkawa plays for teams were doing a great job of breaking down the science on these.
These most of our plays in the Anadarko are not statistical resource type plays.
They are Geosciences driven plays that require a different approach and we just got the critical mass and the economies of scale to commit to that and our teams are continuing to improve our well results and were just were very excited.
And well talk about those five plays today but in three to five years that will be another three or four plays probably as this continues to develop.
Im taking a shot at this would you go Hogshooter Cleveland Tonkawa and the Granite Wash as far as rank order today of prospectively or am I forcing that? I mean its on product prices because they do ship some for complete oil to much higher gas and then some have higher IPs.
So that helps rates of return were pleased with all of them and we allocated our resources into our best prospects.
all right.
Yeah I hear you.
Thank for all the question all the Q&amp;A appreciate it.
Thank you.
Well hear now from Jeff Robertson with Barclays.
Thanks.
Steve its a follow-up on the Anadarko Basin.
Can you rank order in terms of returns at current commodity prices and results you are getting the returns in the various plays that you outlined? Jeff certainly dont have that here with me.
And those weve listed the top five plays there is actually I think we drilled horizontal laterals in 12 different zone stacked in the Anadarko Basin.
So its just a great legacy asset for Chesapeake as we have already own all the land there is HBP.
And so as Jeff mentioned these are not resource plays these are prospect specific and were just drilling our best prospects next.
Can you talk about what the well costs are up there? Again a variety Jeff theyve ranged from fairly deep Granite Wash wells to very very cheep shallow Mississippian well.
So its a wide range from eight plus to under four.
So.
Okay.
And then Nick a question on just as you will look at the types of assets that you hope to sell over the course of 2013.
Will that have any impact on the amount of interest that Chesapeake capitalizes? No I dont really anticipate a significant change in our capitalized interest rate for this year.
Well keep looking at that as we go forward.
Okay thank you.
And Charles Meade with Johnson Rice has our next question.
Good morning gentlemen.
Well thanks for taking the question here at the end of the hour.
First going back to the Eagle Ford I think you mentioned a little bit earlier that you guys are drilling longer laterals at 6 300 feet on average.
But for the wells that you that good well that you put in your press release (inaudible).
Can you talk about with the configuration of that well the lateral length and how many stages? And how are you evolving overall in the play as far as lateral length and stages? Well Charles I dont have any specifics on that well.
And how it was competed with lateral length as Jeff mentioned thats an average.
And so depending on how the leases layout some are shorter some are longer than that.
We are not really trying to extend that much further thats pretty long lateral for an average program again it will have 7 500 foot wells but I was in there some but for an average program thats pretty long.
So I dont anticipate that changing dramatically.
Okay thank you.
And then going back to your comments your prepared comments I think I believe I heard that in the Anadarko Basin there was a weather impact of 5 000 boe a day for the first quarter and I was curious two things one is is that gross or net and then two is that the total weather impact or is that really the weather impact versus your baseline expectation for weather in that first quarter of the year? Go ahead Jeff.
Yeah the 5 000 boe per day is net and it really resulted from a significant number of snowstorms believe it or not that we had in Northwest Oklahoma and I wasnt sure I followed the rest of your question? It was really presumably you have some amount of downtime baked in every first quarter for snowstorms but I was just curious that was that the total impact or was that really the impact beyond what you normally expect? Sure now I understand that would be incremental to what we would consider normal downtime Great.
Thank you.
Biju Perincheril with Jefferies &amp; Company has our next question.
Hi good morning.
Steve looking at the guidance I think youve mentioned in there that 42 bcfe that you are removing for asset sales it sounds like there is some incremental above and beyond the Miss Line and Eagle Ford is that can you talk about is that a various pieces or are there some major components there? Well there are variety of packages lots of little packages out and some have small production like the Marcellus that was announced with just 2 million a day some have slightly more so its just a variety from the packages we identified the production associated with those.
Okay so as far as major producing assets is it fair to say its the Miss Lime and Eagle Ford? Certainly those would be bigger ones.
Okay.
And then the well cost that you mentioned in Utica first of all on that pad versus the subsequent wells is that how much of that improvement is operational gains versus the cost for the first well did that include your site cost? Yeah the first well would have included the location costs the roads in moving the rig in those kinds of big dollar amounts.
And so all of those are saved on the subsequent wells.
But definitely there would be a piece of that what will be what the knowledge base for both fast we drill but also how we target on the well.
So we can drill those subsequent wells faster than the original well normally.
Okay.
And typically how much are those location costs running? Pretty expensive in the east I dont have an average number but 500 000 pretty can easily be that high.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
Very good we reached the top of the hour and I would like to thank you for joining our call today and your interest in Chesapeake.
If you have additional questions please follow up with Jeff or Gary later today.
Thank you all.
And now well conclude todays conference.
Thank you all for joining us.
Good day everyone welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Q2 2013 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley senior vice president investor relations and research.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2013 second quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and updated investor presentation that we have posted to our website.
During the course of this call our commentary will include forward-looking statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these factors is available in our earnings release and the Companys SEC filings.
We also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures and we encourage you to read the full disclosure and GAAP reconciliations located on our website in this mornings press release.
I would next like to introduce the members of management who are here on the call with me today; Doug Lawler our chief executive officer; Steve Dixon our chief operating officer; Nick DellOsso our chief financial officer; Jeff Fisher our executive vice president of production; Jim Webb our general counsel; and Gary Clark our vice president of investor relations and research.
We will next turn to prepared commentary from Doug and then we will move to Q&amp;A.
Doug? Thanks Jeff and good morning.
As most of you have seen by now Chesapeake has delivered a strong quarter both operationally and financially.
We are pleased with these results which are a testament to the dedication and focus that has been demonstrated by the entire employee base during a period of transition.
Once Ive discussed our performance on this call I will spend some time briefly outlining some fundamental tenets underlying our approach to achieving key financial and strategic priorities for Chesapeake as well as some specific goals for us going forward but first lets look at the quarter.
Chesapeake reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.51 which compares to $0.06 in the year ago quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $1.42 billion up 26% sequentially and 77% year over year.
Total production growth was also strong up 2% sequentially and 7% year over year.
Oil production was the primary driver of our growth this quarter.
It was up more than 35 000 barrels per day or 44% year over year to approximately 116 000 barrels per day.
This growth was once again led by the Eagle Ford Shale play where oil production grew 8 200 barrels per day sequentially and 32 700 barrels per day year over year to 57 000 barrels per day.
Id also like to highlight that our percentage of production from liquids plays increased again this quarter to 25% and also accounts for 60% of our realized oil and gas revenue.
Given the better than expected results we are seeing primarily in the Eagle Ford from both well performance and improved cycle times on both drilling and completions we are raising the midpoint of our 2013 full year oil production guidance by 1 million barrels.
Importantly during the second quarter Chesapeake generated this strong production growth through greater capital discipline resulting in significantly lower capital spending compared to last year.
In the second quarter we spent approximately $1.6 billion on drilling and completion activities which was down approximately 35% year over year.
Our total lease hold and other capital expenditures during the second quarter were $245 million which was down approximately 75% versus the year ago quarter.
As the result of substantial anticipated efficiency gains and continued focus we see further opportunities to reduce capex going forward.
On the expense side we did a good job of reducing production expenses despite our increasing liquids mix.
Per-unit production expenses were $0.78 per Mcfe which was down 20% from the year ago quarter driven by cost leadership from our field personnel and reduced saltwater disposal costs as infrastructure projects have been placed into service.
G&amp;A was a similar story as per-unit costs excluding stock based compensation were $0.25 per Mcfe which was down 36% from the year ago quarter.
From a balance sheet and liquidity perspective Im pleased with the accomplishments of the company year to date.
We ended the quarter $4.7 billion of liquidity and net long term debt was essentially flat compared to year-end 2012.
The companys financial position has strengthened considerably over the past 9 months and as a result we recently elected to terminate our bank covenant amendment early.
In return our maximum long term debt to EBITDA ratio limit is back to 4.0 times from the 4.5 times ratio that would have applied in the amendment for June 30 2013.
I would note that at June 30 our long term debt to EBITDA ratio had improved to approximately 3.0 times.
During the first half of 2013 the company received proceeds of approximately $2.4 billion from asset sales.
During the 2013 third quarter to date the company has completed the sale of additional assets for total consideration of approximately $1 billion including the sale of assets in the Haynesville Shale and Eagle Ford Shale and we also anticipate to complete the sale today of certain midstream assets in the Mississippi Lime play for a total consideration of approximately $300 million.
These asset sales combined with forecasted net operating cash flow enable Chesapeake to fully fund its 2013 capital expenditure budget.
Additional asset sales are contemplated for later this year which may be used to reduce long term debt and further enhance our financial liquidity.
Moving beyond the quarterly results Id like to take a few minutes and highlight Chesapeakes key strategic priorities.
In order to deliver near and long term returns increase our competitiveness and improve our relative stock price performance our go-forward strategic priorities will consist of two fundamental tenets.
The first is financial discipline and the second is profitable and efficient growth from captured resources.
I want to share with you exactly what these two strategic priorities mean.
Regarding financial discipline our capital expenditures will be balanced with our cash flow from operations.
Were implementing a new competitive capital allocation process to ensure the highest quality projects are funded.
We will continue to divest our noncore assets and noncore affiliates.
We will reduce our financial and operational risk and complexity and we will achieve investment-grade credit metrics.
Profitable and efficient growth from captured resources is a continuation of our focus on developing the highest-quality core of the core properties.
Chesapeake has a world-class inventory with significant growth potential and multiple bases.
This inventory will provide competitive production reserve growth for years to come.
We will target top quartile operating and financial metrics and aggressively benchmark and post-appraise our performance.
We will pursue continuous improvement in all aspects of our business and will drive value leakage out of our operations.
In my initial discussions with Archie Dunham the companys board and some of Chesapeakes largest shareholders I had a great opportunity to see and understand their commitment and confidence in the company.
This confidence is underpinned by the quality of the people and the quality of the assets at Chesapeake.
Seeing that level of conviction and how they view the future of the company was very important to me.
I chose to come to Chesapeake and lead a new strategic direction because of the abundance of opportunity and the strong foundation that has been built for future success.
I believe I have picked the right company and I share the boards view regarding the quality of the people and the assets.
Ive been impressed by many aspects of Chesapeake.
Its an organization that is very nimble for its size.
Its good at adapting and making decisions and its especially good at responding with speed to clear directives and objectives.
It is no accident that this company grew to be one of the largest domestic energy producers in a very short period of time.
There are also however many areas where I see opportunity and room for improvement including capital efficiency capital allocation cost control organizational process and strategic focus.
During the past six weeks Ive launched a comprehensive review of our assets in the organization.
As part of this review Im working with the senior management team to determine our best path forward for driving meaningful shareholder value and realizing our full potential.
This path will be designed to execute a strategy of becoming a more focused and efficient E&amp;P company and it is critical I repeat that we balance our capital expenditures with our cash flow from operations.
Chesapeake is at a key juncture in its history and we have a laser focus on positioning the company to execute more competitively.
Going forward we are targeting to deliver top-quartile performance in several key metrics including absolute and per-[unintelligible] adjusted share reserve growth production and cash flow growth returns on capital deployed returns on equity as well as lease operating overhead and drilling and completion costs.
While I cannot give you an exact timeframe today for when we will achieve the top-quartile results in these metrics we intend to get there as quick as possible and we will pursue it with a high sense of urgency.
In closing Id like to thank the Chesapeake employees for their dedication and their hard work.
Transition and change are not easy and I know the collective effort of our employees focused on this new strategy will drive improved performance for our shareholders.
And with that Steve Nick and I would be happy to take any of your questions.
[Operator instructions.] Well take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Real quickly Doug youd mentioned I believe I heard this correctly that on the financial discipline commitment that it would be supported by trying to live within cash flow.
Did I hear that correctly? Yes you did.
Okay and so just thinking about that obviously that rate count reduction that you guys put in place is driving down the [E&amp;D] capex spending production growth higher and pretty impressive from that perspective.
Can you share what that means for 14? I would just roughly guess that production would be coming down i.e.
bringing cash flows down a little bit.
And then just trying to think for modeling trying to tie capex to whatever were projecting for cash flow as analysts.
Its a good question.
First Id like to note that in 2013 weve demonstrated the ability to grow production while reducing the capital.
Were not at this point providing any guidance towards 2014 but what I would ask you to do is to look at the quality of the assets.
As I highlighted and the teams highlighted in the past the core of the core has tremendous growth potential.
And so if you look at our capital efficiency how we can reduce our costs as were already seeing efficiencies result in more wells being drilled despite a lower rig count living within our cash flow and targeting that financial discipline is a key priority to me and the team.
And you know well be providing information on 2014 later this year.
And then just thinking about the impressive production growth on the quarter yet seeing a slight slippage in the initial production rates for the Eagle Ford Utica and Anadarko Basin could you guys change maybe the well design or are you more aggressively managing initial production rates to kind of manage declines? Just trying to think about what the impact of that is going forward.
Really its just that quarters well set.
We have not seen any back off in the performance of our wells in any of the areas.
So I think that will just come and flow with the well set thats being turned online.
In some areas the older wells are just getting hooked up.
So I think its more of a function of the well set and not an overall decay in any of our areas.
And one last one.
Just looking at the transport costs they look like they crept up a little bit for your forward guidance.
Can you talk about what the main driver of that is? A couple of key drivers there.
The biggest is the basis differential widening in the Marcellus.
So I think youve seen with other producers in the market [unintelligible] well where theres a lot of infrastructure being constructed there this summer and some things have been offline and theres been some backup in the basin.
So thats a big driver of it.
Weve been pretty conservative in projecting that out through the rest of the year.
And then in the Anadarko Basin weve seen some [basis] as well.
On the oil side Ill add that weve also taken into account the consolidation of WTI and [LLS].
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on the point on balancing capex and cash flow I think you mentioned some of the metrics you expect to be in the top quartile on and that you didnt really have a time period for when youd achieve that.
But in terms of when you balance capex and cash flow is something that you can control.
When do you see that happening? Is that something that you expect would be immediate? Is that something we should look for for 2014? And as maybe a follow up to the earlier question are there one or two key levers you think you can pull to get the bulk of the way there from where Chesapeakes been historically? It is our target in 2014 to achieve that.
So directionally just so you know we look at the different metrics and how we proceed forward.
Establishing criteria and goals to achieve those top-quartile metrics to live within that cash flow is all targeted towards 2014 performance.
Just a few of the primary factors that will help contribute to that is that when you look at the companys history and how we have grown to this point in time and basically all the production growth is taking place from single-well pads.
And as we focus and concentrate on our capital efficiencies synergies that can be achieved learning from the land capture to the [held-by] production drilling program and concentrating on the best areas those efficiencies and that production growth we believe will come from those primary areas that well be investing in.
So part of that capital allocation process that I described and how projects compete will give us that ability to optimize our cash flow growth our production growth and with that target of being within the cash flow from operations.
And then as a follow up as we look at your plans to reduce rig count in some of these areas and then given the efficiency points that youve mentioned should we expect that your well count will fall rise or stay flat in these areas? And I assume theres a big difference but how are you thinking about core of core in the Eagle Ford and Marcellus and other areas versus the rest of your positions? Thats a good question.
I think what youll see is that it should be relatively flat in balance because of the efficiency we expect to achieve.
Seeing reduced cycle times not only on the drilling side on the completion side also compressing with the more focused tension in the core areas that infrastructure costs and getting the overall cycle times reduced is a primary target of ours.
So I believe that without giving guidance for 2014 yet that it will be fairly balanced and the way that were going to get there is through efficiencies and the concentration in those core of core assets.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Just want to be clear that youre balancing cash flow and capex versus cash flow from operations and your balance sheet improvement comes from non-core asset affiliate sales? That is what were targeting yes.
And can you talk about what you would consider noncore affiliates? Well this is part of the process.
Were in this comprehensive review.
Were looking at all of the assets.
Were looking at all of the affiliates that the company has ownership in and determining what is the return that were generating from those assets and affiliates and going forward what is the best strategic positioning for us to be more competitive should we be continuing to own and invest in.
So at this point Im not going to share with you on it but thats something that were really focused on because if its not adding value and not return-centric that adds to our competitive position well look to divest of it.
And then to get into detail on defining top-quartile who are the peers that youre going to be measuring yourself against? Well I think its the standard group that youd expect that have similar footprints as Chesapeake.
I can name them but you know who they are.
Basically were looking at the strong competitors in North America and those that have achieved good performance and were going to be focused on elevating our performance to be more competitive.
And then just one very detailed question.
Can you talk about back half of the year your completion plans for third quarter in your 4PS at Eagle Ford Utica Anadarko and Marcellus? We can get to drilling plans but want to just get some details on completion plans and activity.
It will be down slightly.
We did quite a bit of catch up here in the first half of the year and so our pace of bringing those on will be slow in the second half.
And part of that will be a little less drilling activity but most of it was kind of acceleration more in the first half on catching up on excess inventory.
Maybe another way to ask the question is with your planned exit rate for activity level whats the normal backlog of wells waiting on pipeline and completions just to establish a baseline.
Say with a 10-rig program in the Eagle Ford youd normally have 120 wells or whatever the number would be.
That would be helpful.
Youre right.
You do have a working inventory that will always be there.
So yeah I think of it more as excess inventory and working inventory.
We made big strides in reducing that excess here in the first half.
And part of that is always moving with pipeline and compression and processing also by play to play.
So we have rightsized the second half of the year to match up with infrastructure availability.
So no specific numbers? Thats correct David.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks about balancing cash flow but you also mentioned about addressing the complexity of the organization.
Can you elaborate on what youre talking about there? Because Im guessing youre relating to things like your [unintelligible] structure the myriad of joint ventures that you have and if you could just elaborate as to what youre really getting at there.
I think you nailed it.
Part of this procedure is looking at all the different affiliates all the different structures that we have.
Are they adding the proper returns to Chesapeake? Are they getting us competitive advantage? And without getting into exact detail on it at this point in time and really I cant because the process is underway and were evaluating it.
But I think that as you know well the company is involved in many different activities.
Vertical integration has proven to be efficient and enable some very distinct competitive advantages for us in the past.
And as we look at all the different affiliates we want to make sure that were getting the long term value creation and the focus we need to be as competitive as we can with our peers.
So I guess the best way to answer it is that its a comprehensive review and each of those will be evaluated.
The joint ventures Im guessing their kind of set in stone and the [preference] shares similarly.
Im just curious as to how would you if you decided they werent appropriate what kind of steps would you envision taking to address those? Well I think some of those JVs some of those commitments are we getting the best returns out of them? And looking for ways to improve either with our capital program in those JVs how we can demonstrate better performance.
Or just simply looking at all the different options that exist.
Its early in that process and so I think its important to note that you can expect that our goal - and Id ask you to look more at the goal - is to reduce the complexity and to provide better clarity on where were getting our best returns from.
Two quick followups if I may.
One operationally: the Utica volume is still pretty low.
Are you guys still thinking in the low 330s for an exit rate? Yes as more processing and compression come online we should be able to get to that.
And finally on [unintelligible] cash flow are you talking about drilling and completion costs matching operating cash flow? Or are you also including the other spending unit lease hold and I guess the other oil service capex and so on? And just on that last one if you could maybe talk to guidance on the 2014 non-E&amp;P capex that would be great.
We are targeting the drilling and completion and will be looking at the other capital expenditures as well as we follow up.
So the focus is on all of our capital expenditures with specific focus in the near term on the drilling and completion.
And its just early for us to provide anything else on 2014.
Id just add that on the other capex remember that in the first half of this year we still had some midstream assets that we just completed the sale of today that we were spending some money on and were taking delivery of some rigs [unintelligible] that have been ordered in some cases more than 12 months in advance.
And so we do expect that that other capex line will be materially lower in 2014.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold with RBC.
Can you guys just answer one thing? Im looking at the piece where youre reducing complexity.
Youre looking at your assets the various structures.
What kind of timing do you have? Is this something that we should hear about in the coming quarter? By year end? Can you give us a flavor of when youre going to have that wrapped up and the plan to go forward? I think its going to be an ongoing process.
As you know some of those arrangements have fairly long terms and commitments associated with them.
So I think what youll see is that its not necessarily a one day were going to make an announcement on how we deal with it but over time improvements well be announcing and sharing that with you as we progress.
I think thats exactly right.
We have cash flow and liquidity freed up from the improved capital programs improved cash flow from our business as well as noncore asset sales.
Were determining the best places to put that capital to work and thats a process that will yield different results based on the opportunities that are in front of us at the time.
So no specific time [unintelligible] progress on that.
Is that right? Youll see continual progress over a period of time.
Theres no one day.
And then relative to your current plan of reducing the rig count in the second half of the year can you remind me what the plan had been in terms of rig count and well counts compared to what youd planned at this point? Im trying to think back to the first of the year.
Im guessing it was around the low 80s and now were down to 64.
So a pretty significant reduction.
And as you can see from the cycle times that we released significant improvements in our cycle times to be able to do that.
From a well count perspective it has not decreased nearly as much as the rig count is the point there.
And then one last question in the Utica can you give a sense of what youre seeing on the well performance in terms of the oil and gas splits out there? Has it trended a little bit more gassy relative to some of the initial expectations.
I guess thats been our sense.
Can you give us a little color and elaborate on that? I would say from when we entered the play it certainly had been gassier but not quarter over quarter this year.
The well set is performing well.
Were very pleased with the results and anxious to get more of it on this year as we get compression and processing in place.
Okay.
And specifically what I was referring to is if you look in your little Utica write-up it gives some of the gas production in Mcfe per day where I think BOE per day was something you spoke [unintelligible] before.
So I didnt know if that was sort of a signal we should think about.
No I dont think so.
I think its still early until we get a bigger well set on which again is going to happen here in the second half of this year.
So more to come.
Our next question comes from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Doug I just wanted to talk to you a little bit about youre thinking about putting in a new blueprint for Chesapeake.
You know one of the recent challenges given the pullback in gas has been the balance sheet and the funding gap.
The shares have done really well year to date.
And I was just wondering what your thoughts would be on doing potentially a significant equity raise so you can get away from needing to do the asset sales and things like that and perhaps give you some flexibility as you look towards a newer strategy.
Thoughts on that Doug? Those options are out there and could always be a possibility that we would consider.
I will tell you though that the focus right now is on being the most efficient with our capital as we possibly can and targeting that capital toward the very best projects that we have which compared to our peers and compared to some other operators we just have some outstanding assets.
And so prior to looking to do something like that we need to really focus on our operations and focus very very intently on how we can improve our capital efficiency.
And right now were just basically going to be looking at asset sales to get the portfolio right.
And the focus with the capital and the asset sales is not to solve for a funding gap its to get the discipline in our program get the best projects get the multiple wells per pad and some of the best assets in the country.
And so raising equity at this time is not a primary driver.
I think it always exists as an option but thats not something were focused on.
And my final one is just trying to think about the Utica and the overall macro potential regarding gas.
What are your thoughts Doug? You have a couple hundred wells that you plan to put on later this year early next year.
Does this change the way you think about the gas market where you have potentially a resource which has a lot of potential similar to the Marcellus? First let me say that I really am encouraged by what Ive seen in the Utica.
As Steve noted weve got a lot of wells that were getting ready to bring online.
And I think the options there we have a ton of options available to us.
And focusing on the best areas there and getting our capital in line is part of the program as we see the Utica to be a very strong asset going forward.
So as it compares to Marcellus I hate to get into some of those comparisons at this point because we still have several wells to bring online to evaluate and determine the right amount of capital to be investing in that program in the years to come.
But I will tell you that Im very encouraged by it and with my experience in all the other shale plays I think its an exciting area for the company.
Our next question comes from Bob Morris with Citigroup.
One operating question on the increase in the oil guidance for the year.
You mentioned part of that was the timing of asset sales.
Can you tell me what proportion of that increase in the midpoint guidance was the timing of asset sales? It was roughly two-thirds created by the delays in the asset sales.
And one third of that is just performance increase.
You talked about matching capex with cash flow and allocation and focusing on the best projects.
Does this mean that youre contemplating a lot of expiration of leases or acreage? I know youd rather sell acreage.
But in this market its tough to sell nonproducing acreage.
So do you anticipate that in this program in this new strategy that there will be materially significant lease expirations that will occur here? There might be.
And you know our focus in the past has been to not let any lease hold expire.
As a result of that and as a result of the aggressive land capture strategy weve got a tremendous opportunity to high grade within that.
And as you look at where we start investing and where we start improving our efficiencies were not going to ramp up the rigs to hold leases.
And our rig count while we havent given any particular guidance and one area may increase and in another area it might decrease but its all centered on how we can drive the greatest capital discipline and the greatest returns for our shareholders.
And so as a result of that we may lose a little bit of acreage.
We obviously will look at opportunities to monetize that acreage.
We dont see us focusing in the near term on it so we dont have stranded capital that has been invested but the companys just tremendously blessed with a huge land resource base.
And obviously as we go forward were not going to be able to develop all of it.
But what we are going to develop is going to be very competitive and well be looking for continuous improvement and capturing the growth metrics for it to be more competitive.
Our next question comes from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Just looking at the Eagle Ford obviously tremendous continued results especially on those spud to spud cycle times.
So Im just wondering is this going from the 15 to 10 rigs just because of the efficiency? Im just wondering if you had decided to stay with the same amount of rigs if you had been able to take production up just that much more.
A little bit more.
We have some constraints there that are continuing to be improved.
But yeah we would have been restricted couldnt have stayed at that same pace.
Part of it was though we had to have that pace to HBP all of our lease hold first half of this year.
Were basically done there now in the Eagle Ford so you havent seen all that we can do once were now in a pure pad drilling mode going forward the second half of the year and into 14.
So were going to get a lot done with those 10 rigs.
And to add to what Steve said when you think about some of the strengths that reside in Chesapeake one of those is the speed at which we can ramp up our operations and ramp down those operations.
So as we are pursuing value and our competitiveness and how we improve that that rig number we may go from 10 to 12 to 15 and maybe more than that.
But we may pull it back based on efficiencies and how we develop our portfolio to be more competitive.
So I think its important to not note our focus too intently on the rig count but to focus on the efficiency the cycle times the capital discipline that were building into the program.
And then maybe Steve back to your HBP comment where do you sit now with that in the Utica? You guys have like you did in the Eagle Ford in the first half is most of that held as well? Oh no.
The Utica is a long ways from being HBP.
But weve got long term leases there so we have done some pad drilling and tried to be in a more focused area in the Utica to get started along pipelines.
But no well have a lot of work to do in 14 and 15 to HBP our excellent lease hold position in the Utica.
And just lastly I noticed on the guidance for the oil field services net margin just was taken down slightly.
Is that just a result of less rigs running? What should we attribute that to? Thats a result of less rigs running and its also a result of just general pricing pressure across the oil field services segment.
Our services are market priced and they follow the market.
So margins in that industry have been tight all year.
Thats a good thing for us from a cost perspective at the end of the day and it ends up just coming out in that margin number.
Our next question comes from Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering and Holt </strong> Just a few quick questions for me.
In terms of the Eagle Ford backlog can you give us an idea of where that stands today? And specifically I guess with the 10 rigs that you have running in the play how many wells do you roughly think you could drill next year? Just looking at the second quarter it looks like you completed about 140 wells which was up quite a bit.
So just trying to understand kind of the rate of change.
Well as Doug had just mentioned we can ramp up and down pretty quickly.
So 2014 we really have no guidance for you there yet on that because it could be a pretty big spread.
You saw the numbers that we turned on in the second quarter.
We did a lot of catch up in the Eagle Ford.
So I guess your question was more what our kind of excess inventory is left in the Eagle Ford.
Its not a great number.
Were trying to get those wells completed and online here in the second half.
So I dont think we will exit with a big excess inventory in the Eagle Ford.
I think just adding to what Steve said were not going to park capital on the ground thats not going to give us a return.
And so if the infrastructure and the ability to get the wells online theres some limit to it well direct that capital elsewhere direct the rig activity elsewhere so that we can optimize our efficiencies and our returns.
So I think its still just a little bit early to say.
I would expect that that inventory with our rig activity will fluctuate and fluctuate for a couple of reasons.
With the dependency of the infrastructure and also with the efficiencies that we expect to achieve there.
And so Im excited about it.
I think its a great time to focus on this backlog with oil at $107 a barrel and well be doing as much as we can to bring it on as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible.
Pickering and Holt </strong> And just on the back of that looking at your full year oil guidance if you look at the first half of the year youve done about 20 million barrels.
It would imply kind of the midpoint of the range I guess post-asset sales that oil growth is slowing or maybe decelerating a little bit in the back half.
Is that a fair assumption just given the completions that you guys are looking at? How should we think about the trajectory of growth going forward from here? Well slow a little bit because of that inventory we worked off during the first half and then we just sold some oil in these asset sales.
So that was all pretty much in full second quarter or first half and its just come out now.
Pickering and Holt </strong> And just last question for me on the NGL front it looks like on a run rate basis theres going to be a huge uplift in the back half of the year to get to guidance.
I was hoping we could get a little more color on the plan going forward in terms of ramping your NGL volumes to meet the guidance range.
And then a second follow up question just in regards to the Utica as you bring on additional NGL capacity how do you guys think about dealing with ethane in that market and moving those volumes in terms of the liquids component? Well in terms of the NGL production we have the Kensington plant that just started in the Utica.
We have additional plant coming online later this year.
So that ramp is significantly driven by that infrastructure in the Utica as well as in [unintelligible] and some other plays as well.
And so thats really the driver there.
As far as ethane the Apex Pipeline is scheduled to come online around the beginning of 2014 and thats a significant assistance to us in moving ethane out of the basin.
Were an anchor shipper in that line and we think thats a good advantage to us.
Pickering and Holt </strong> Just a follow up there.
So in regards to ethane for the back half of this year is the guidance assuming a rejection out of the Utica? Or should we basically model in ethane rejection until Apex comes on? Were able to do some blending with our ethane in the Utica.
What weve modeled in the way of rejection is rejection for July and August.
Beyond that we have not modeled any rejection but as you know its possible.
Weve had some rejections this year as well.
So hard to predict.
The pricing has been right around breakeven on a lot of our contracts for several months now one month ahead one month below.
And we monitor that very closely and make the most economic decision each month.
Our next question comes from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Quick question around the divestment of noncore affiliate.
Could you just give us a list of your affiliates just for our information? I think most of that information is available if you will look at our 10-Q and public information we have rather than going into that at this point in time.
Key focus there is that were looking to drive the greatest returns from any affiliate that were associated with.
And thats what I would just ask you to know and that strategically its an important part of our program going forward.
Okay Ill try a different This competitive capital allocation procedure could you contrast that to what Chesapeake had been doing? Certainly.
The key there is that our previous strategy was focused largely on preserving the lease hold.
Ive been very very impressed with the geoscientists within Chesapeake and the teams ability to rapidly - not only from an external perspective prior to joining the company but also internally now that Ive been here - Ive been very impressed with the companys ability to identify and rapidly move in and acquire significant core positions simply some of the best rock in the country.
And the focus has been to not lose any of that acreage and the shift in the strategy today and the capital required to do that previous strategy had put us in a very difficult position.
And as we go forward that capital and that focus is on driving the greatest value out of that acreage and being the most competitive we can be against our peer group.
And so by using that focus and that speed and that technical ability that resides and is very strong inside the company were focusing that speed and that strength on value.
And so Im very excited about it.
We have a lot of work to do but were shifting that strategy from preservation of the land to capturing the most value from the land in the core areas that weve identified.
Our next question comes from Michael Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
Obviously theres a lot of variables to consider as it pertains to 2014 growth and Id just like to touch on a couple of specifics there.
First on the midstream takeaway additions that you would potentially be adding here at the end of the year and into 2014 hopefully you can direct our attention there to whats meaningful.
I know youre constrained in a number of these basins.
Obviously the Utica but also in the Marcellus and Powder River Basin.
And just talk about how their coming [slow] to capacity there could also play an important factor in 2014s growth.
And then the other thing I wanted to ask you about is just the baseline decline on your natural gas assets here.
Hows it been faring? Whats your model so far in 13 and whats a good number to dial in for 14? We do have a number of projects coming online in the next 12 months that will help significantly in the Utica I guess to begin with.
Weve got 200 million in processing coming on now another 200 million towards the end of the year there and capacity for another 200 million in probably second quarter of 14.
So lots of ramp up room there in the Utica.
In the Marcellus those pipes additional takeaway there come on at the end of the year November-December timeframe.
It will allow more capacity in the Marcellus.
The Eagle Ford is kind of a number of things pipeline treating and compression that will continue to help throughout the year to improve it.
Niobrara thats probably 14 on it before we have any really meaningful big step rate change there.
Weve got a little bit of incremental but thats when that gets relieved.
And so again thats all factored in our 13 guidance.
And we are not giving any 14 guidance yet.
But we will factor all those in when we provide 14.
And I just want to make sure Im characterizing this correctly.
Did you say that you think you could have a very similar completion count in 14 versus13 while getting capex to come in line with cash flow? We did not say that because we have not provided 14 guidance.
What we said was that we are getting more efficient and our completions per capex will be improved but we have not provided that capex number yet.
Our next question comes from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Let me clarify for 2014 your expectation is that your all-in capex is going to be at or below operating cash flow? Am I understanding that correctly? Our target is our drilling and completion capex will be within cash flow with the overall target that we continue to pull all the capex within our operating cash flow.
So the messaging there and what I would like for you to focus on and I want to convey is that its a very strong strategic element in this company going forward to live within our cash flow.
Again just to clarify the DNC capex plus other capex youre targeted to have it at or below operating cash flow? Were going to focus intently on balancing our capex program to be within cash flow yes.
And what are the dynamics that allow you to do that now? Because Chesapeake in the past has been in a very tight situation and probably wanted to spend less but was precluded from doing so.
So obviously one of the things you mentioned in the call was Eagle Ford Shale is largely HBP at this point but what are some other dynamics that enable Chesapeake to live within cash flow? Well theres two or three central elements to accomplish that.
And the first you highlighted in that were not going to preserve every acre.
And we are going to focus on the very best areas.
And inside those best areas you can expect to see greater efficiencies from our drilling and completion program.
As I mentioned the production growth thats been realized by the company is from single well pads.
And as you look at our percentages of multi-well pads well be significantly improving as we focus on those key areas.
And as a result from that well see likely fewer rigs greater capital efficiency and continued growth.
So thats a huge element as a part of it.
And then as we also look to reduce the complexity in the program the things that are not getting us the returns that were targeting were looking to eliminate that waste or thats not providing the greatest return for us.
So looking to drive the greatest value to drive the leakage out of the program to identify waste where it exists in our operations and is not getting us the competitive return.
That all rolls up is going to create a much more competitive program.
Are there any commitments whether its acreage commitments or pipeline commitments that might preclude you from doing what you want to do? Were in the process of evaluating all that.
I think there are going to be some that we have to evaluate and scrutinize really closely but my observation at this point in time is that were going to be able to accomplish that and were going to be targeting working as quickly as we can.
And so Ill reiterate the issue around providing 2014 guidance that this is the strategic tenets that were trying to accomplish and were very focused on trying to get there as quickly as possible.
And then is debt paydown also still a big goal for Chesapeake? Absolutely.
Its still a major goal of ours.
We expect to have a simplified and improved balance sheet in the coming years.
In the coming months as well as years.
So does that mean that your intention is to pay down at least a few billion dollars of long term debt? Im going to stay away from an exact number because its going to depend on the opportunity set thats in front of us when we are at a point of excess liquidity and we make that decision.
But we are continuing to target investment grade metrics.
Its a goal of the company to be investment grade.
We have been making good progress on improving our liquidity and the next step will be to apply that excess liquidity towards our balance sheet when were ready to do so which we will do at some point in the relatively near future especially as we consider a noncore asset sale program.
We have significant liquidity today.
Remember its in the release that we ended the quarter with an undrawn revolver.
Weve closed a couple of very large asset sales since then so we have quite a bit of liquidity today.
And then lastly Doug I know its relatively new for you but when you look at the portfolio what would you identify as the top three plays that you likely are not willing to sell or touch in terms of any monetization? I hesitate to say that.
I would ask you just to focus on the strategic things were driving and capturing the greatest value and being the most [competitive] to the company.
So there may be some noncore positions in the best assets that weve got that wed look to monetize to accelerate the value.
And we may consider asset sales across the whole portfolio.
But the driver here is where we can capture the greatest value and where we can be more competitive and so I just would prefer to stay away from saying any one particular asset is untouchable or that we wouldnt focus on.
But I will also comment that Im really excited about our strong portfolio.
I think the Eagle Ford assets the Marcellus assets Haynesville although its hurt a little bit by gas prices.
The position there is outstanding.
The Utica is outstanding and we have several other emerging areas that are in the evaluation process that well be looking at.
I think that its important to note that as we allocate our capital in creating this competitive process for funding in 2014 and beyond that there will be opportunities for other areas that well invest in.
But those other areas will be invested in based on substitution not addition.
So the competitiveness within the portfolio to make sure that were doing the best things for our shareholders is our focus and if weve got new opportunities in a new place that we can run with that will add to the value of the company well be looking to do that but the overarching statement there is that the financial discipline is very very critical to the company going forward.
Our next question comes from Amir Avif with Stifel.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First once you finish your review of capital allocation can you give us a sense of when youd be ready to provide 14 guidance or color? I hesitate to give that at this point.
Obviously our capex program will be reviewed with our board and so Im just not going to provide any information about that.
But were working it very hard and very diligently and you guys will be hearing more from us soon.
But in terms of timing though when youd be willing to provide that.
Whats critical there is making sure that we do the comprehensive analysis and determine the best opportunity set for us to invest in.
So I dont want to put a time limit on it simply because we want to make sure we evaluate it properly.
And you had great sequential growth this quarter.
But as you cut your rig count here in the second half and based on your guidance theres no sequential growth showing up in the second half on an absolute production basis.
Is that basically a conservative reflection in your guidance? Or should I look at the second half run rate capex as a good reflection of what you need to maintain your production? Its a function of the sales that we just had.
You know we sold quite a bit of production in the Miss Lime JV Haynesville and north Eagle Ford.
So its a reduction of that that were seeing now in the second half that wasnt in the first half.
But there is a reduction in capex spending and a reduction in wells turned online also 20% less in the second half than in the first half.
So all those factors and hopefully conservatism also.
Our next question comes from Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to put a finer point on one of the strategic questions earlier which is so far it appears youve been pruning and optimizing within your legacy plays with your divestiture program for the most part.
I was just wondering how you thought about complete exits from plays.
And I guess where Im coming from is that if you think theres a real strategic benefit to being in eight major plays and there might be fewer distractions if the company was able to focus on a smaller number and furthermore with a larger sale you might be able to accelerate the repair of the balance sheet.
So I just wanted to hear your thoughts on that.
Your question is very good and I guess the way Id answer it is yes.
Weve exited plays before including Fayetteville Permian and we potentially for those that are noncore will have complete exits.
So I think its all a part of the portfolio evaluation thats underway.
And then the last question would be you mentioned you want to reach IG metrics and I think I know what your answers going to be here but I was just wondering if you could put any sort of timeframe around that.
No we really cant put any timeframe around that.
We are focused on it.
We have a number of things that were looking at that will help us to get there but its going to be a combination of improved operational performance taking the proceeds from noncore asset sales applying them to our balance sheet etc.
So its a process that will take some period of time and we dont have an exact timeframe for it.
Our next question comes from Brad Karp with Wells Fargo.
Regarding IG metrics Doug you mentioned it in your prepared remarks.
Just curious is that a standalone strategic goal? Or is that more or less a byproduct of other strategic goals such as efficient capital allocation and balancing capex and [unintelligible] and so on? Its a part of the financial discipline.
So I think in terms of those things that I mentioned theyre all A priorities.
But it falls under that financial discipline umbrella.
And then are there any specific metrics associated with that? Is it just kind of debt per BOE and so on? Any specific numbers surrounding those? Theres obviously a number of metrics that we look at the agencies look at and you all look at.
We could go through the list but different companies rank stronger in some metrics than others when they get to investment grade.
And were looking at the entire suite.
We know what our strengths are and we know what our weaknesses are and were focused on having our entire set of metrics look investment grade over time.
And then final one just on asset sales.
Just based on where youre at year to date it seems like youre right around that lower end of the $4-7 billion guidance.
Do you see yourselves falling into the lower half of that for the full year? Or basically what would it take you to get to that upper half that youve kind of touched on throughout the call? I think the key there is that were very pleased with what weve accomplished to date and as we look for other assets that dont meet the criteria for the portfolio going forward we may have more asset sales.
And the key there is how we continue to build the portfolio to be the most competitive as possible.
So in some cases it may be accelerate value and in some cases it may be hanging on to the assets for longer term.
But at this point in time I think the range that weve provided is good and well continue to look for opportunities to improve our balance sheet improve our liquidity and a component of that is definitely asset sales.
I think out of respect for the other calls today I think well go ahead and bring it to closure.
A couple of key things I just would like to note.
One is that Im extremely excited.
Im very pleased to be a part of Chesapeake and as I review the portfolio and the quality of the assets and the people I see a tremendous amount of potential.
And I think the key there is that we rebuild that financial discipline into the program that we focus on the profitable and efficient growth from our captured resources.
And I also note that we have a lot of work to do.
But the focus is there the strategic discipline is there and were excited about the future.
So if you have any additional questions please follow up with Jeff and Gary.
Theyll be available to answer those questions and we appreciate your time today.
Thank you.
Good day everyone welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Q3 2013 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mobley senior vice president of investor relations and research.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2013 third quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and updated investor presentation that weve posted to our website.
During the course of this call We will be making forward-looking statements which include statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Such factors are identified and discussed in our current earnings release and the companys SEC filings.
In addition we are under no obligation to update the forward looking statements made during this call and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures during the call and we encourage you to review the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and in this mornings release.
I would next like to introduce the members of management who are here on the call with me today: Doug Lawler our chief executive officer; Nick DellOsso our chief financial officer; Jim Webb our general counsel; and Gary Clark our vice president of investor relations and research.
We will next turn to prepared comments from Doug and then we will move to Nicks comments and then to Q&amp;A.
Doug? Thank you Jeff and good morning.
Weve had an exciting third quarter one marked by significant transformation and the implementation of a new strategy for Chesapeake.
As a reminder our new strategy has two fundamental tenets: first financial discipline and second profitable and efficient growth from captured resources.
This strategy combined with our world-class assets and talented employees provides the foundational elements for Chesapeake to achieve our goal of delivering top-quartile performance.
The company has now aligned its structure to deliver differential value to our shareholders through disciplined cash flow growth rather than an activity-focused land-driven capital program.
We have recently completed an extensive review of the entire asset base and Im very pleased with the value-creation opportunities that exist in our portfolio.
Through the transformation process weve maintained our focus on improved operational efficiencies and reducing capital intensity.
This statement is supported by solid third quarter financial results and oil production growth.
Another key takeaway for the quarter is our continued progress regarding capital discipline.
In the third quarter our drilling and completion capital spending was approximately $350 million less than the second quarter.
We have also reduced our land acquisition spending and our production costs.
We still have significant opportunities to improve our capital allocation and efficiency and reduce our cash costs which we believe will result in greater returns and greater cash flow.
For the quarter Chesapeake reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.43 which compares to $0.10 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA was $1.325 billion up 29% year over year.
On the production side oil growth led the way up 23% year over year while total production growth on an organic basis and adjusted for asset sales in the third quarter was approximately 8% year over year.
Net oil production in the third quarter increased to 120 000 barrels per day or roughly 4 000 barrels per day greater than in the second quarter.
This is despite the sale of assets in the Mississippi Lime and Northern Eagle Ford Shale that contributed approximately 15 000 net barrels of oil per day in the second quarter.
Oil production growth in the third quarter came primarily from the Eagle Ford and to a lesser extent the Utica Mississippi Lime and the Southern Marcellus.
The percentage of production from liquids plays increased to 27% during the quarter and the percentage of realized revenue was 65%.
We expect a continuation of this trend due to the ongoing ramp up in the Eagle Ford and the Utica and the continued focus of our capital program on liquids drilling.
In light of better than expected oil production during the third quarter we are again raising our full year 2013 oil production outlook by 2 million barrels to a range of 40 million to 42 million barrels.
With one quarter left in the quarter youll note that the midpoint of our guidance implies a projected decrease in oil production from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of approximately 9 000 barrels per day.
Id like to point out a few factors underlying this anticipated sequential decrease.
Accelerated inventory reduction during the second quarter in the Eagle Ford along with one month of oil production from assets that we sold at the end of July provided additional oil volumes in the third quarter while weather and infrastructure issues in the Eagle Ford during October have slightly reduced oil volumes for the fourth quarter.
Additionally as part of our focus on discipline we have reduced our rig count at the Eagle Ford throughout the year.
This short term break has allowed us to concentrate on optimizing the drilling program going forward as we transition to a pad-based program which we expect will lead to improved cycle times and improved project economics.
We have also increased our focus on well scheduling which we anticipate will minimize downtime associated with simultaneous operations in the future.
We expect that these factors will combine to provide a brief pause in the growth rate in the Eagle Ford oil production during the fourth quarter with an expected return to sequential organic growth in 2014.
We look forward to sharing a more detailed outlook with you early next year.
Now Id like to switch gears and discuss capital spending.
Im very proud of the asset teams for coming in under budget for the quarter while still meeting or exceeding our production targets.
Drilling and completion expenditures were approximately $1.25 billion during the third quarter roughly $180 million less than budget and $350 million less than the second quarter.
Spending on new lease hold was $45 million during the quarter or approximately $50 million below budget.
The lower than expected capital expenditure level is partially attributable to fewer wells drilled and completed in the quarter.
We are also beginning to experience capital efficiencies and lower average well costs resulting from improved operating performance most notably in the Eagle Ford where our drilling on single well patches decreased from approximately 65% in the first half of the year to 40% in the third quarter and we anticipate this percentage will be approximately 25% in the fourth quarter and 15% or lower next year.
Turning to asset sales through the end of the third quarter we have received proceeds of approximately $3.6 billion.
During the fourth quarter Chesapeake anticipates completing additional asset sales for net proceeds of approximately $600 million.
Additionally we continue to pursue other asset sales transactions that may close in the first half of 2014.
The proceeds from sales are anticipated to be directed toward reducing financial leverage and complexity and further enhancing our liquidity.
We expect that further transactions will be driven by portfolio optimization rather than near term funding needs.
As previously noted last quarter we currently do not see any need to issue equity and we will continue to drive greater efficiencies into our capital program.
These efficiencies and cost leadership are an important part of our ongoing effort to match capital expenditures with cash flow.
To conclude Im very pleased with the organizations ability to deliver on its near term production and cost targets at a time when multiple transformational initiatives have been in progress.
Some of the results of these initiatives are already being realized while we expect others to be realized over time.
As previously noted we will be providing our 2014 guidance in early 2014 after we have completed our assessment of the optimal allocation of capital within our portfolio for the year.
We expect to continue delivering organic production growth next year and we plan to do so with a lower capital program than in 2013.
Ill now turn the call over to Nick DellOsso our chief financial officer for additional financial and performance information.
Nick? Thanks Doug and good morning.
As Doug noted the third quarter was a strong quarter for production asset sales and capital discipline which enabled us to lower 2013 capital expenditure guidance and leave production guidance relatively flat while at the same time making substantial improvements in our balance sheet and liquidity.
We ended the third quarter with nearly $5.2 billion of liquidity consisting of $4 billion of undrawn corporate revolver approximately $215 million of availability on our oilfield services revolver and approximately $1 billion of unrestricted cash.
Our liquidity position improved by approximately $430 million compared to the end of the second quarter and by approximately $840 million from year-end 2012.
Long term debt net of cash ended the quarter at $11.7 billion down from $12.4 billion at the end of the second quarter and $12.3 billion at the end of the year.
In line with our strategy we continue to reduce financial leverage and complexity and have a number of initiatives underway in the fourth quarter of this year that will continue into next year.
For example we recently repurchased some assets that were subject to sale leaseback arrangements with financial counterparties including surface real estate in Fort Worth as well as a package of drilling rigs.
Turning to costs our production expense in the quarter was $0.76 per Mcfe as we continue to do a good job of managing LOE despite our ongoing transition to liquids.
Accordingly we are reducing our full year 2013 production expense guidance range by $0.05 to $0.80 to $0.85 per Mcfe.
Looking ahead we are focused on optimizing production and returns so some of the initiatives we believe could be very positive to our program such as work over expenses and increased usage of artificial lift may result in some upward pressure to production expenses from current levels as we get into our 2014 development program.
Longer term we aim to further optimize our per-unit production expense even as we transition to a higher mix of liquids in our production stream.
To accomplish this we have established a cross-functional team specifically charged with identifying and implementing LOE reduction and optimization measures.
With respect to G&amp;A many of you have seen the announcement surrounding our workforce reductions during September and October.
These were difficult but necessary actions to align the organization with our new operational structure and strategy to achieve profitable growth from captured resources.
We have also been implementing other non-workforce-related G&amp;A initiatives over the last year that will result in further cost savings the full effect of which we will highlight for you with our 2014 outlook.
On the hedging front we have been actively locking in oil and gas prices for next year via swaps and collars as well as opportunistically covering a portion of our short oil call position.
We have entered into swaps covering 2014 production to establish an average natural gas price below our $4.23 per Mcf on approximately 640 million cubic feet a day of production.
On the oil side we have swaps with an average floor of $93.79 per barrel covering about 60 000 barrels per day.
With regard to our long-dated oil call position we have taken advantage of low volatility and the decline in oil prices in recent days to buy back approximately half of our outstanding short call position in 2014 and approximately 35% of the position in 2015.
This will free up hedging capacity and provide us flexibility to enter into more downside oil price protection when and if the market provides an attractive opportunity to do so.
Id like to conclude with some comments about our natural gas differentials and in particular Northeast basis.
Our company-wide natural gas differentials for the quarter came in at $1.46 per Mcf which is an increase of $0.17 per Mcf compared to the second quarter.
This increase is primarily attributable to the temporary maintenance related basis dislocations that we and other operators experienced in the Marcellus during the quarter.
We have adjusted full year differential guidance in our outlook to reflect the basis widening we have seen in the Marcellus and to a lesser extent other basins.
Chesapeake has firm transportation contracts for approximately one-third of the 1.4 Bcf per day of new capacity going in service in the Northern Marcellus during the fourth quarter as we look to route production into more favorable markets.
Thank you for your time this morning and we will now open up the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator instructions.] And well take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Real quickly just thinking about 14 and the progress you guys have had with cost reduction so far can you highlight for us or just give us a little bit of indication of where you think you could see the biggest area for continued improved reduction in cost or capital efficiency? I guess the way I would answer that for you in light of not being able to give the particular guidance by area for 2014 is that a lot of the initiatives that we have undergone have been what I call cost management.
And I believe that we have cost leadership opportunities in all of the areas in which we invest.
And those cost leadership initiatives are going to provide us significantly better returns and better margins in 2014 as we go forward in our program.
So rather than focus on one particular area or highlight what area might benefit from the specific initiatives I believe that all the areas are going to benefit and its because of the focus its because of the supply chain synergies and the opportunities to capture efficiencies that the company has previously been unable to do as we move to a more efficient well-disciplined drilling and completion program on multi-well pads.
And then just based on your comment of moving to multi-well pads can you talk a little bit about maybe what that means to production? Not so much the trajectory as you highlighted organic growth but more so should we expect the production becomes lumpy or the particular areas - perhaps the Eagle Ford or the Utica - will see really lumpy production? Just trying to get a handle on that going forward.
Sure thats a good question.
As you would expect when you move to multi-well pads your cycle times can increase a little.
But overall based on the focus that we have I think that well continue to see some lumpiness in the program but I dont think its going to be too different from what weve seen in the past and my hope is that with the better planning the better cycle time in aggregate structuring as I mentioned in my notes about the scheduling initiatives that are in place Im hopeful that that will completely offset whatever multi-well pad drilling and completion operations could result in as far as lumpiness.
And then maybe just one more in the Eagle Ford.
Given the production growth that you saw some of the other hiccups can you just talk about the wells that you did complete? Kind of laterals costs anything that you did differently that contributed to the strong production growth there? We had about 140 turn in line wells in the Eagle Ford during the quarter which was outstanding performance.
Were getting into an efficiency mode and attacking the wells and how we can expedite the production shortening the cycle times planning for the next completion and the infrastructure.
So it really is a combination of all those different things that are resulting and seeing some improved performance there.
Im excited about what the Eagle Ford has to offer for us as you are aware.
We have the industry leading oil growth rate in the Eagle Ford and its very competitive and we expect additional really good things to come from the Eagle Ford.
And well take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Doug I met with you and your team not so long ago and my understanding is that youve got a bunch of task teams or task forces in [town] where youre looking at stretch goals to bring operating costs down by something on the order of 50%.
Thats a big goal.
Im just wondering if you could give us an update as to how you see progress there and the likely timeline for delivery.
And Ive got a follow up please.
We see huge opportunity there and thats something thats going to take place over time.
Capturing the innovation and the ideas of our field staff the use of automation in our operations and all the different things we have available to us competitive things such as our data systems that we have here in Oklahoma City how we can optimize drilling completion and production operations are all really really exciting things that I believe will continue to help us on our production cost.
So we have set some very aggressive targets.
We are performing well on our lease operating expenses and production costs.
Im encouraged by the progress the teams have made to date.
But were not satisfied with it and we see huge opportunity there.
And well be striving for a pole position with respect to our lease operating costs compared to our peers.
Could you remind me too the progress to date Doug? I havent provided that yet.
Well be putting that information in when we share our 2014 guidance.
One other one from me.
I dont know if this is one youre able to answer with any eloquence but what Im trying to do is reconcile lower spending with your comments in your press release suggesting that you will still have growth next year.
So can you help us with the order of magnitude as to what the core of the core well profile looks like compared to lets say the average wells that you had been drilling to try and hold acreage? And I guess the key areas like the Marcellus Utica and Eagle Ford would be the ones wed focus on.
As youre aware the single well pad drilling the HBP focus to keep the lease hold and continue the test the acreage that we have under lease initiatives have been significant in the past several years.
But it has not been efficient.
And so the production growth recognized from these single well pads and as weve delineated the acreage has not been the most efficient production growth.
That said we still have to demonstrate our ability in the core of the core to show higher quality better returns and offset the inefficient production growth decline that will be taking place in the next few years.
And so that really is the crux of the evaluation process and how were focusing where the capital can be directed to capture the best margins and the best returns and to continue to show and demonstrate competitive growth.
So theres really not any other advice I can provide for you there at this point in time other than the comment that I made that we expect to see positive production growth next year with the lower capital spend.
Is this the kind of thing youll be able to add more color on when you provide guidance? Absolutely.
Okay.
And the final one from me if I may the $600 million of disposals planned for Q4 can you quantify any volume impact associated with those? Sorry if I missed that in your remarks.
And maybe an update as to how you see the order of magnitude on further disposals lets say first half of next year.
Just to be clear here were only talking about probably an impact of one month from the transactions that are slated for the fourth quarter.
So the production impact of those this year wont be significant.
Its safe to say our asset sale program is still focused on assets that we consider to be outside of our primary development plans and focus areas.
We have a lot of great assets as you know and some of those are coveted by others including at times others that operate those assets.
And so this is just a chunk of assets here that were selling that shouldnt have an impact on fourth quarter production in a material way and really shouldnt impact the trajectory going forward in a material way on whats being sold.
And order of magnitude for next year? On this package no.
I dont want to give an order of magnitude on it because like I said its not going to have a material impact on the trajectory.
Well take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
You all provide really good details in your press releases in each area as far as wells completed and activity levels.
Could you give us kind of an outlook as far as pace in each area of what we should be reading at year-end just to help us kind of illuminate the slowdown in the Eagle Ford and what your exit rate would be from a rig count might be helpful as well in each region? Were in that process right now of narrowing down and focusing on what exactly those rig counts are going to be.
At present were in the 60 rig range and I think you can expect that through the rest of the fourth quarter.
As we look to provide that guidance in 2014 well be more specific about ranges in the Eagle Ford and the other areas.
I think the question is very good but without being able to provide more detail on it what I can share with you is we are focused on it very very intently and making sure that the capital that we have to spend is absolutely directed at the best spot to provide the competitive growth metrics that we believe we need to achieve.
So your question is good but youre a couple of months ahead of us in being able to provide that information.
If we just think about a run rate then youve pulled down to 60 rigs you slowed down a little bit in the Eagle Ford just because of the month of October.
Everything else kind of runs the same.
I guess the problem is in the Utica with the Natrium fire probably that slows down as well.
Can you give us an idea of what your current Utica production is maybe? Weve been working closely with Dominion and as weve looked there at that fire and how its impacted this we had provided information that suggested we were going to be in the $330 million net exit rate there for Utica.
Weve had really really good growth from the second to the third quarter in our volumes and with the Kensington facility starting up in December theres an additional $200 million that will be coming available.
So I dont think that the surface related whether it be processing compression or infrastructure issues right there are going to materially impact our operations and rig count in the Utica just because these are short term in nature and well be working through those and continuing to optimize on our own efficiencies and what we control.
So its just fourth quarter that it impacts? Yes.
And then Nick your comments on gathering and transported marketing have been a focus in the market on whats happening in the Northeast kind of on average are your realizations on oil gas and NGLs tend to be a little lower than peers.
Can you give us a little more detail as far as how much of that is fixed and how much of that is variable just given the temporary maintenance? Well the moves this quarter are primarily due to the basis differentials in the Northeast and to a lesser extent some other basins.
But weve had our guidance out there for what our differentials look like based on our gathering and transport contracts that are in place for the year and then I would say they were impacted again this quarter by what we saw in the way of basis.
So without breaking it out specifically because obviously those contracts are not all fixed and under [unintelligible] themselves I would just guide you to look at it that way.
So it kind of keeps the same levels maybe bring it down a little bit once you get past this temporary issue? Id like to think we should return to a little better differential after we get past this temporary issue thats right.
And well take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Just a couple of questions.
Doug back to the capex comment about 2014 I know youve said before in the past that your other capex is going to be down.
When youre talking about lower capex year on year are you just talking about E&amp;D? Or are you talking about the total? Im talking about the total.
Care to give any color on E&amp;D? I would love to but youre going to have to hang with me there for a little bit David.
All right.
No problem.
And then let me get back to Davids question.
You guys put out some rig projections.
In the second quarter you said you were going from 13 going to end the year at 10 in the Eagle Ford those types of numbers.
Are those still good? Or are those all being reevaluated right now? Well I think theres so many opportunities for improvement there not only with the way that the drilling and completion teams are looking at the operations and already realizing synergies and reduced costs but theres also opportunities with our scheduling and our simultaneous operations planning thats going to also help reduce cycle time and help improve that cash on cash cycle time.
And so all of those things are weighing into whether or not we run 10 rigs or 12 rigs.
And as youre fully aware the capacity of this organization and the talent that resides here if we need to run 15 rigs in there we can do it very quickly.
If we decide we need to run 20 we can do that.
But its going to be at a pace that gives us the optimal returns and so what we see at present is that were at that 10 rig run rate and there will be an opportunity to potentially increase that next year but its not going to be at the expense of parking capital in the ground that we dont get a return on and a return in competitive near term order.
So the pace the returns the quality of the investment and the cycle time are going to really drive that and whats great about it is we can run 10 12 or 20 and have done it before.
And then just last question on the divestment front you talked about the $600 million in the fourth quarter but you still have the service piece out there some other interest in various E&amp;P companies etc.
Whats your outlook for those as we head into 14 or even 15 as far as I know your capex spend is going to be way down in the service side but can you just talk about outlook for those assets? Were continuing to evaluate the portfolio and each of the entities and assets that are underneath Chesapeake Energy we are working and looking closely at to make sure that the returns generated are accretive to higher corporate performance.
And theres noncore assets that have been sold off there are other assets that were looking at potentially selling and basically its going to be return-driven on the total portfolio.
And were in a position where our liquidity and our cash flow generation theres not anything thats going to be sold on a fire sale basis or that needs to be done so that we can fund our capital program next year.
So it will be more opportunistic in how it fits in our portfolio and I think that the best way of perhaps answering your question is that there are a number of other things that were looking at because we have a high-priority target to continue to improve our balance sheet and were going to do that.
Well take our next question from Scott Hanold with RBC.
Could I just clarify one thing? In the Utica are you basically confirming your 330 million a day target exit rate? Is that right? No it is subject to the Natrium plant and when it comes back online.
But I think the key there is that were ready to go and with the Kensington plant coming on weve got adequate capacity that well continue to be ramping up there and its just a near term issue.
And well hopefully get past that pretty quickly.
The other thing is that you all indicated at the beginning I think that you did sort of that review of your asset base and you see a lot of value creation opportunities.
Stepping back and looking at the context of that comment is that sort of implying that theres just a lot of high-level development opportunities there or that theres certainly a lot more monetization effort that you can undertake as you look into 14 and beyond? I think the fair answer there is its both.
We see significant opportunities for capital reduction capital efficiency and the process that weve implemented and its working very well right now in how we competitively allocate our capital for the best returns.
Im very pleased with the progress weve made on that and monetization things that we dont see that will be a part of our investment portfolio in the next several years will be evaluated for potential monetization.
And would you be willing to speak specifically about [unintelligible] or maybe in general like things like ownership of oilfield services Frac Tec Chaparral? I mean when you look at those relative to CHKs other upstream opportunities would you consider those a little bit more noncore? Well weve talked about some of those assets in the past as being items that we would be willing to sell.
And frankly theres no difference in viewpoint there.
The reality is we have no need to rush out and just take whatever price is available.
So for example on Chaparral or Frac Tec those are our assets that given where valuations are in the industry today and the structure of our ownership we could either sell or hold for better valuation at some point.
They dont require us to continue to put capital into those entities and theyre passive investments.
And so were not in a rush to sell at a bottom price and yet theres still things that we would be willing to sell.
So as far as their being noncore Im happy to say thats still the case.
Doug touched on oilfield services previously our own internal services that is and thats a business that weve owned for a long time weve had a lot of success with and its part of what were reviewing to determine the best way to own and operate or get value from that business going forward.
And then one more quick one if I might more of an operational question in the Eagle Ford.
Are you all evaluating other formations or zones outside of the Eagle Ford? Are you looking at both the upper and lower Eagle Ford the Buda or Pearsall? Are those things youre testing at this point? Yes as you know weve got a significant lease hold position there and we see other opportunities as well.
So I think that well continue as we look to improve our Eagle Ford program and performance making progress on the things that have already been accomplished so far this year that looking at those other opportunities for additional investment well be evaluating and testing through time.
And so theres a number of initiatives that are in place on our lease hold including spacing and other optimization efforts that we believe are going to pay off very nicely for us with that large lease hold position.
Well take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
I just wanted to just see if you could give us a little bit of a baseline as we look towards you mentioned in the press release organic growth in 2014.
Just wanted to see if you could give us a baseline on what we should think about.
You had some asset sales this year just to base that organic growth on.
And my follow up is would you expect to grow your liquids in 14 relative to that baseline? Yes we continue to expect with our focus on the Eagle Ford and the other liquids plays that well continue to grow our liquids.
And just trying to understand what the baseline for that growth would be given the asset sales that youve done in 2013.
The organic growth rate in the third quarter was 8% and so when you look at the divestitures and things that we can be potentially looking at next year thats why we have said that we have confidence that well be able to continue to show positive growth with the reduced capital in 2014.
Just to clarify Im just trying to understand when youre talking about organic growth and as we look to our models do we just assume your actual reported results in 14 are you parsing out the impact of asset sales? Yes same-store sales is what were describing as organic growth but if you look at it in an aggregate basis as well we still are evaluating it with plans that we will continue to see growth next year.
So without being able to provide you the exact detail just yet we have to continue to defer to when that guidance will be provided and that detail is coming shortly.
Fair enough.
And just a follow up as you think about potentially doing something with your oil service assets per se obviously thats perhaps helped you in terms of thinking about efficiencies but as you know Doug the oil service multiples are quite a bit lower than Chesapeakes current multiple.
So just wondering if you can talk about maybe some of the positives of separating oilfield services from on the flipside some of the negatives.
Well as Nick highlighted the oilfield services have provided a very good competitive advantage for Chesapeake and weve seen tremendous synergies by having those assets in the company.
And part of our ongoing evaluation there includes with our new strategy how can we best optimize with those assets as a part of the company.
And so its under review and were going to continue to evaluate it because the driver there is that with all of our assets were going to make sure that we get the best returns on all the capital that we spend and our direction in trying to be a better performer and a top quartile performer.
So its under review and at this point in time thats really all the color I can provide on it.
And well share more with you when we can.
Well take our next question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Just wondering on as far as lease expenditures your thoughts on next year versus this year and how you see that.
Clearly youve got the capital reduction plan in place but just wondering still on leases what your thoughts are.
The company still has a very significant lease hold and as we are going through this process of evaluating where the capital will be allocated next year some of that lease hold will continue to be developed.
Some of it will be tested for whatever technology or synergies that we can push to those areas to capture value in the future and some of the lease hold wont make it in our cut.
And so weve got an ongoing process that well be continuing to evaluate and that evaluation will include current operations and what we can do with it to get the best returns.
It will also include how technology and innovation can be applied and in some cases if its very long-dated or we dont see [unintelligible] to it well actually sell it or relinquish it.
So the lease hold position the key there is were not going to be a land-driven company.
And then just one other question turning it over to the Utica.
Youve got a good slide on 13 that basically lays out the midstream development there.
Your thoughts? Is that now when you look at it going forward keeping up to your activity there? Or are you still resting some of these wells maybe perhaps a little bit longer than you would waiting on some midstream? Its improving and I think what youll see is continued improvements with the additional facilities and processing thats being built out and will be in place the latter part of this year.
So I think that that story and matching the cycle times and the optimum investment rate there that rig count and all is under close review and I believe it will be very close to optimized in 2014.
And were not quite there but with all the infrastructure thats being put in place and it will be in service here in the latter part of the fourth quarter first part of next year we dont see that materially impacting the pace that weve got scheduled at this point in time.
Well take our next question from Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.
Nick one more question on the balance sheet please.
It seems like youre pretty comfortable with the current leverage levels and of course youve got the $600 million coming in the door over the next quarter or so.
So it seems like your plan is to basically just drill your way to a less levered balance sheet.
Am I reading that correctly? Or is there some sort of more drastic delevering event to look for in 14? Well when you say were comfortable with our current level of leverage I guess Id answer that in two ways.
One I dont feel any current pressure in the market relative to our current level of leverage and obviously credit markets are favorable.
The cost of debt is favorable.
However for the long run we believe our balance sheet has too much debt on it and we have a strategic goal to reduce that.
And so as we look at our portfolio and as we identify the assets that we believe are not optimal for us to own and like we said we think there are several that over the course of the next many months and maybe years well be where we would like to sell them.
We expect that a number of those proceeds will go towards reducing the leverage on our balance sheet.
And when I say the leverage on our balance sheet I commented that were looking at overall debt were looking at cash commitments in the future so in my prepared comments I talked about having reduced some sale leasebacks on some rigs which are not debt or operating leases but yet theyre a structure thats in place that gets in the way of exactly how we own our assets that have a cash cost to us thats carried out into the future and its a simpler way for us to look at our company without those leases in place at the moment.
And we believe weve bought them back at relatively attractive prices from an NPB perspective it makes sense for us to do so.
And so thats how were going to continue to think about this.
We want our balance sheet to be smaller on the leverage side and we want our overall capital structure to be simpler.
And we can do that with the proceeds from asset sales we can do it with the proceeds that are thrown off from the bus over time and well continue to do so.
But theres no real sense of urgency in that.
Were not rushing out to create something to make it happen immediately.
And then one other question.
Theres been a lot of talk on efficiencies but I was wondering if you wouldnt mind just drilling down a little bit deeper and talking about some of the completion optimization initiatives.
Not so much on the pad drilling but more on the actual well designs.
Any sort of reduced frack spacing or anything like that in particular that youre using across the portfolio thats really driving better performance better IRRs and whatnot? Its a great question.
I think the best way to look at that is that the efficiencies that the industry has captured over the past several years were just at the beginning stages of whether it be the amount of sand pumped the spacing the cluster spacing the fluids we have so many opportunities to continue to improve and optimize our program.
And each of those things are under evaluation and review and I think well continue to see in all of the areas as we narrow down and begin some of these optimization plans that frankly we have not been able to do up to this point in time because weve been more focused on how to hold the leases.
So this is a huge opportunity for us huge in respect to cost huge in respect to estimated ultimate recovery and really it captures almost every single aspect of completion and design that you can think of that is being evaluated and reviewed here.
But Ill also note that there isnt anything out there in the industry thats taking place that Chesapeake has not tried or participated in so even though we might be on a single well pad and away from the best acreage testing new ideas and continuing to look for ways to improve have been part of our program its just the focus now as we concentrate in these high quality areas is going to give us a better return.
Well take our next question from Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
I was hoping you could give us a bit of a look under the hood in the current capital allocation process that youre going through right now.
I think it would be helpful just to hear you compare and contrast it to how its being approached today versus maybe how its been done at Chesapeake in years past.
And then just Id like to gauge if this is a process that you think will ultimately yield some potentially meaningful swings in how you allocate capital or spread capital around across your core basins in 2014.
Its a great question.
The capital allocation process in the past has been primarily directed at how we continue to maintain and hold the lease hold.
And while there has been some benefits to that it has not been the most efficient.
And the focus now with the competitive capital allocation process is to ensure that all of our dollars are directed at where the best returns are achievable.
And that includes a rigorous post-appraisal process.
It includes that we will lay rigs down in certain areas if the investment in the wells are not performing as we expected.
And so its a very very strong difference from capital allocation in the past and Ill also note that the capital allocation and competitive funding is not going to be based on additional debt instruments that can be secure whether it be conventional or creative ideas to execute our program.
And so really its going to the fundamentals necessary to drive value and focusing on the high quality assets that we have and were excited about it.
We think theres just a tremendous amount of opportunity.
One on the Utica here.
The bulk of your activity to date has been focused in Carroll County but you do have a decent amount of acreage further to the southwest portion of the play where weve seen some really strong projections in terms of IRRs from some of your competitors.
Just hoping you could maybe give us a sense of what you expect the difference in returns to be in Carroll County versus maybe what you have in the southwest.
I think that would be helpful.
We wont provide that information at this time.
As we look forward to providing guidance in 2014 well have some additional asset review that can give you a little more color on that.
Well take our next question from Matt Portillo with TPH.
Pickering and Holt </strong> Just a few quick questions for me.
I just wanted to confirm in the prepared remarks did you mention that LOE would be potentially up on work overs in 2014? And then a second follow up question just in regards to your longer term LOE initiative I was curious from the $0.75/$0.76 per Mcf that you currently have today what do you view as kind of leading edge LOE or kind of top tier LOE targets from your peers with this similar type of production mix? The point we were trying to make is that the work over expenses and the opportunities there we also see a significant amount of opportunity there with our base volumes.
And the point there is that there is a lot of value in it.
And so if we were to see a higher LOE its going to be because were capturing greater value with a work over program thats going to yield good results for us.
And the point there is that as we continue to evaluate our production costs thats an important element that we want to capture the greatest amount of value from.
What were saying though is theres also in addition to that significant opportunities.
Weve lowered those costs and we see opportunities going forward to further reduce those costs.
And so your question were not trying to signal its going to be higher.
What were signaling is were going to capture the greatest value we can.
And so then to your second question the plan going forward what I consider to be top-quartile type of LOE performance is going to be in the $2 to $3 per BOE or kind of in that $0.60 range.
So that just gives you a little directional guidance where we are targeting to continue to drive our cost down and Im very excited about the team that weve got in place thats looking at all of the areas and whether its standardization knowledge sharing best practices with respect to all the different operations in the field that will result in driving those costs down.
Pickering and Holt </strong> And then theres been a big buildup of inventory over time and I know you guys have done a good job of kind of working that down.
I think just kind of skimming through the release you have about 500 wells left in your backlog.
I was hoping that we could maybe get a little more color in terms of where you think that ultimately should move to.
Whats an appropriate level of [selling] capital into the ground? I know you guys are trying to reduce that as a bigger strategic initiative.
Its a very good question.
And inventory depends on several things.
It will depend on the rig count in the area on infrastructure in the area and our plan is to optimize that.
Ill just go back to that comment about making sure that were not parking capital in the ground that were not getting a return on as quickly as possible.
So the inventory levels particularly as we move to more multi-well pads there will be a base level of inventory that you would expect as youve seen before with other operators that have been climbing that efficiency curve.
So well continue to see an inventory and what is the exact amount? Its very dependent on the rig count its dependent on takeaway capacity but what our commitment is that were not going to just park capital in the ground for 9 months 12 months 15 months or greater without being able to get a return on it.
So rather than look at what the optimum level of inventory is Id focus that what were going to do is get the greatest returns from the investments and not strand that capital in the ground.
Pickering and Holt </strong> And then just my last question quickly on the mid-con you guys you have kind of lumped all of your rigs together.
I was hoping that we could get maybe a little bit more clarity in terms of where you may have been decelerating over the last few quarters.
And in particular I just wanted to get an update maybe on your Powder River Basin drilling program.
Mid-con is an area that we still are very interested in and that we like.
Weve reduced some of our activity there as weve been working our geologic models.
The maturity of the geologic program and the predictability there needs to improve and so pulling back a little bit to make sure that were operationally doing the things we need to do the technical and geologic work is focused properly.
And I think youll continue to see the number of rigs in mid-con will be in a range there as we increase and decrease based on our confidence in that program to continue to deliver.
So weve had several adjustments there.
And then the Powder River we still are very encouraged about it.
And youll also see some fluctuation in the rig activity.
The issue there involves infrastructure to a certain extent and back to that comment about not parking capital in the ground for extended periods of time and also the post-appraisal and work that needs to be done to improve our cost and make sure that we have a good predictable play there.
But in both areas we like the opportunities that we have and believe that they will be very competitive in our portfolio.
Well take our next question from James Sullivan with Alembic Global Advisors.
Just a quick question I had.
I wanted to see if I could get a little bit of quantification around your plans on switching over from single well one offs to pad drilling.
I apologize if I missed this but at this time you guys are still doing mostly single wells one offs at this point in your main place right? Its improving as we speak.
Were recognizing the multi-well pad efficiencies and cost reductions.
I think its important to note that multi-well pads in and of itself does not provide the capital decrease.
Its the synergies and the testing and the optimization that takes place that provides those opportunities.
So you obviously benefit from multi-well pads because you dont have the additional pad location road construction all those kind of things that are high level hits but in and of itself its the synergies in our operations and the greater purchasing power of Chesapeake that were looking to capture.
Do you guys give a kind of target percent range in the various plays for what youre hoping to be at in 2014? Lets say if you were running in a generic play 10 rigs are you guys thinking you might have five of them by this time next year running on pads? Or are you looking to get 100% in most of the major plays? Were targeting to get to 100% but as youd expect though as you continue to develop a play youll still have some outside of a multi-well pad type of grid.
And what weve been providing guidance on is that in the past couple of years weve been in the 75% range on single well pads and going forward in 2014 we expect to flip that to be more 75% on the multi-well pads.
So its a big shift for us and weve targeted in our presentation some significant capital reductions that we anticipate can be up to 30%.
And then just last one on this topic as you guys think about doing this I know you guys are guiding to a sequential decrease in output next quarter.
But I assume youre sort of phasing in this program through your growth areas in the Eagle Ford and elsewhere Utica.
So I assume that the idea is that you dont go through the big kind of dry spell and then [pops] all in one quarter or all in one section of time.
The idea would be that you would maybe run through the plays.
Is that the sort of concept? Yes I think thats fair.
And then just last thing do you guys have any updates on the program in the Niobrara? No not really other than what weve highlighted there just previously that we are encouraged by the area we see a lot of opportunity in it and well be matching our capital spend with infrastructure and the best returns that we can get in the portfolio.
Well take our final question from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Doug going back to Aruns question youre expecting organic production growth in 2014.
So are you expecting absolute production growth in 2014 over 2013? Or is it possible that youd actually have production down in 2014 versus 13 and still have organic growth? Well Joe Im just going to push you to when we give the guidance okay? Okay.
Thats helpful.
Because in the third quarter of 13 I think production was down 2% over third quarter of 12 but you indicated you had organic growth of 8%.
So I think those numbers are right.
Thats right.
Okay.
And then the midpoint of your new guidance for oil for 2013 the midpoint implies that your fourth quarter oil will drop by about 9 000 barrels a day.
So why would we see that drop? Well as we noted there we had a couple of things.
There are a few things that are entered into it.
Partially the acceleration of activity in Eagle Ford in the third quarter.
Were going to be back at a more normal run rate in the fourth quarter.
We benefited from an additional month when we sold some of the assets.
We got a little bit of an uplift in the third quarter because of an additional month that we had those before selling them.
And then in October because some of the weather issues that we had with the heavy rains down there in south Texas that impacted our production a little bit.
So thats the reason why we see that difference.
And then in terms of asset sales over 2014 you mentioned we might see some asset sales close in the first half of the year.
Do you have a target for how much you want to sell a dollar value or a range? And also do you have some debt and metric targets that youre looking at? And on the same topic in the release you indicated that you want to reduce complexity.
Could you talk specifically? What complexity do you want to reduce? I touched on that a couple of questions ago as well.
When we talk about complexity were talking about things that leave us with future cash obligations or operating restrictions in ways that can affect how we run our bus and we want to remove as many of those so we have the most freedom in how we run our business day to day if possible.
In terms of a debt target Ive said before that I dont want to have an absolute debt target.
Ive said recently I dont want to have an absolute debt target.
A couple of years ago we put out a specific number which was related to what the company looked like at the time and the size of our assets at the time.
And so well continue to think about this in terms of ratios and in terms of targets around those ratios and what Ill just continue to say there is we intend to be an investment grade company over time.
Theres no one ratio thats going to lead us to that as a measure across the entire balance sheet and well continue to target metrics that drive us toward investment grade performance.
So in terms of the dollar value of asset sales should we expect at least a couple of billion dollars of asset sales? Thats just going to be totally driven by our ongoing portfolio analysis and value determinations.
We could decide to sell less or more than that and it will be determined by how we view the assets that we have in the portfolio contributing to the longer term goals of production growth rate and shareholder returns.
And then just lastly I just want to clarify your cash flow expectations versus capex in 2014.
Do you expect your operating cash flow to match or surpass your total capex including E&amp;D and lease hold and other capex? We havent provided that guidance yet but just directionally what weve been trying to indicate is that we want to implement and execute with financial discipline that is in that direction.
So capex may still be above but youre trying to at least get closer than youve been in the past.
Well we havent provided any of that guidance yet so youll get more on that shortly.
Whats the timetable for the new guidance for 2014? What weve said here is that well provide that guidance early in the year.
So you can look forward to that time.
With that being the last call I just want to thank everyone for their time.
I do believe we had a very strong quarter.
I think its a foundational quarter to Chesapeake and I just want to reiterate that the number of initiatives that are in place in this company are significant.
I believe we have a significant opportunity to continue to provide differential performance to the investment community and Im excited about the opportunities and the talent that resides in the organization to execute that program.
So 2014 is going to be an exciting year for us and well look forward to sharing more with you about that here in the near future.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gary Clark.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you David and good morning everybody and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2013 full year and fourth quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the investor -- and the updated investor presentation that we posted to our website this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which includes statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and the company's SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
I would next like to introduce the members of management who are on the call with me today: Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Senior Vice President of Operations Northern Division; Jason Pigott our Senior Vice President of Operations Southern Division; and John Reinhart our Senior Vice President of Operations and Technical Services.
As a reminder we provided our 2014 outlook and capital program on February 6 and that guidance remains unchanged at this time.
Please note that for your convenience we have attached Schedule A detailing that outlook at the back of today's earnings release.
We will next turn to prepared commentary from Doug and Nick and then we will move to Q&amp;A.
Doug? Thank you Gary and good morning.
Like Gary said I hope you had an opportunity to review our 2013 full year and fourth quarter results which were issued earlier this morning.
Just first off 2013 was a remarkable year of transformation for Chesapeake and one in which a tremendous amount hard work and organizational change took place.
I'm extremely proud of the Chesapeake team and the rapid pace that we tackled our challenges and opportunities.
Our new strategies of financial discipline and profitable and efficient growth from captured resources have resulted in foundational improvements across the business.
In 2013 we've dramatically improved our capital efficiency cash cost and operating margins.
We've made progress in strengthening our balance sheet and reducing complexity in the company financial statements.
And with the release of our 2014 guidance a few weeks ago we have set the course for another year of continued improvement.
While we still have lots of work to do to achieve our goal of becoming a top-performing E&amp;P company we completed the necessary steps in 2013 to align our strategy with our world-class assets motivated and talented employees and competitive business processes.
I'm confident that our 2014 investment program will yield improved returns and increase our high-quality core acreage through further capital efficiencies downspacing and improved recovery on a per well basis.
The 2013 full year and fourth quarter results that we report this morning reflect both our challenges and our opportunities.
Operationally we had an exceptional year in 2013 with the total production growth of 11% adjusted for asset sales adjusted oil production growth of 71% adjusted EBITDA growth of 34% and adjusted earnings per share growth of 146%.
I'm particularly proud that our team achieved this growth while running a disciplined capital budget that was 49% less than in 2012.
Despite some severe weather challenges we finished 2013 on a strong note with fourth quarter production coming in at approximately 665 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is above the implied midpoint of our 2013 guidance range.
This is despite the fact that our production was negatively impacted in the quarter by more than 6 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day associated with heavy rains flooding and freeze-offs during the fourth quarter in the Mid-Continent and South Texas areas as well as an additional loss of production at Utica due to the loss of the Natrium gas processing facility for the entire quarter.
While we expect first quarter production will also be slightly impacted by severe winter weather we look forward to demonstrating the strong production growth capacity of our assets as we move into spring.
On a reported basis our 2013 full year earnings were $0.73 per fully diluted share which reflects the impact of $422 million of after-tax charges typically excluded by securities analysts in their earnings estimates.
In the earnings release we have detailed the charges that affected both our earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Several of these charges are related to the restructuring of the organization designed to optimize our competitive capabilities and build a solid financial foundation that will enable the company to be successful through the commodity price cycle.
Other charges that we recorded are associated with reducing overall leverage simplifying the balance sheet and capital structure and preparing the organization for tactical and strategic asset dispositions that we intend to complete subject to market conditions and value-capture opportunities.
As we enter 2014 we believe that most of the charges related to our organizational restructuring are in the rearview mirror and we look forward to reporting fewer adjustments to earnings going forward.
Nick will discuss the 2013 charges in more detail during his prepared remarks in a few moments.
I'd like to turn to asset sales for a moment and discuss what we are looking to achieve with our disposition program this year.
As we noted in the release year-to-date the sale of our interest in Chaparral Energy coupled with expected final receipts from previously closed asset sales and other anticipated non-E&amp;P asset sales should approximate $1 billion.
I'm pleased to note that if completed these asset sales are expected to have minimal impact on our current 2014 operating cash flow guidance.
Beyond these sales we have planned other tactical and strategic asset dispositions designed to further strengthen our program returns and reduce balance sheet leverage and complexity.
The announcement on Monday that we are pursuing a spin-off or sale of our oilfield services division is one example of this type of transaction and we will share further information as these opportunities mature through the year.
Notably you will see a difference in our 2014 asset dispositions.
We will divest assets that are not core to the future of the company so long as we receive appropriate value for them.
We no longer need to divest assets to survive or to fund our drilling capital program.
As noted in our 2014 guidance our investment program is focused on higher rate of return projects and we are already seeing the results.
Drilling and completion cost reductions coupled with the cycle time improvements are driving improved returns in our Eagle Ford and Mid-Continent oil plays.
We're also seeing the early benefits of cost reductions and efficiency gains in our high-quality gas portfolio.
As one example we've recognized significant cost savings from pad drilling in the Haynesville.
Our limited investment program in the Haynesville is expected to yield a 100% rate of return when the minimum volume commitments are considered.
Further cost efficiencies of 20% to 25% are expected resulting in very competitive returns.
The current rig activity there will offset our base decline and maintain a fairly uniform production profile for the year.
From a strategic perspective our investment at Haynesville also provides the company with future natural gas marketing optionality particularly as LNG infrastructure is completed along the Gulf Coast.
This concludes my prepared remarks and I'll now turn the call over to Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer and he'll discuss our natural gas differentials and hedging.
Thanks Doug and good morning.
As Gary noted at the outset we have posted an updated investor presentation on our website this morning to accompany today's earnings release.
I'd like to begin by pointing out some of the significant progress we've made toward improving our balance sheet which is highlighted on Slide 5 of the presentation on our website.
During 2013 we worked on several areas of our balance sheet capital structure with the goal of eliminating higher-cost obligations as well as those obligations that add to the financial complexity of the company or hinder our ability to achieve strategic asset dispositions.
Along those lines you can see the total improvement in our cash net working capital deficit net long-term debt and other long-term liability positions improved by $922 million in aggregate.
Notably our unrestricted cash balance rose to $837 million which together with our undrawn $4 million corporate banking facility and $100 million of availability on our COS credit facility gave us $4.9 billion of liquidity.
Additionally we eliminated more than $200 million of off-balance-sheet commitments through the repurchase of certain drilling rigs and compressors subject to sale-leaseback transactions which sparked a strategic initiative to reduce leverage and will facilitate the recently announced sale or spin-off of our oilfield services business.
We continued this effort in January and February and have completed the repurchase of another $135 million of rigs and compressors.
As a reminder in the second quarter of 2013 we also repurchased $143 million of preferred shares at our CHK Utica subsidiary at an attractive discount to contractual purchase price.
The impact of these efforts as well as other restructuring activities on our fourth quarter and full year results are fully detailed in our press release from this morning.
The takeaway is that there were a lot of moving pieces in the fourth quarter and full year 2013 but we believe that we have made substantial progress and have a good plan for reducing financial complexity.
I'd like to briefly discuss our fourth quarter CapEx and unit costs before turning to a discussion of our gas differentials and hedging.
Total CapEx for the quarter was approximately $1.65 billion.
That consisted of $1.2 billion for drilling and completion activities $60 million for leaseholds and $390 million for other CapEx.
Included in the other CapEx category was $235 million of repurchase of rig compressors that I discussed above.
Production costs in 2013 fourth quarter were $4.62 per boe up slightly from the third quarter primarily due to slightly lower production volumes.
G&amp;A costs in the fourth quarter were $1.79 per boe up from $1.71 in the third quarter due primarily to lower production volumes and the timing of other fees.
Natural gas differentials for the fourth quarter were $1.76 per Mcf and were $1.43 per Mcf for the full year 2013 which was in-line with guidance range of $1.30 to $1.50 per Mcf that we provided on our third quarter release on November 6.
Previously we indicated that there would be an increase in our expected fourth quarter differentials stemming from our minimum volume commitment payments in the Barnett region.
I would like to point out that our MVC payments are structured as a look-back such that they are accrued at the end of the year and hence only affect the fourth quarter.
Coupled with relatively wide basis differentials in the Northeast our total fourth quarter natural gas differential was $0.30 higher per Mcf than in the third quarter.
Looking ahead to the first quarter of 2014 we expect our gas price differentials will contract significantly due to very strong Northeast pricing particularly off our current volumes that we're able to access Manhattan pricing during the extreme cold spells of January and February.
Turning now to hedges.
Slide 6 in our presentation sets forth our hedging position as of January 31 2014.
During the month of February we added some incremental oil and gas hedges for the second third and fourth quarters of '14 and entered into more material volume hedges covering the first quarter of '15.
We also entered into basis hedges covering a significant percentage of our Northeast gas volumes primarily for the second and third quarters of 2014.
This concludes my remarks.
Thank you for your time this morning and we will now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our first question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Say Doug just wondering obviously you guys continue to do a lot of drilling and completion efficiencies.
Just wondering what you could comment as far as particular in the Eagle Ford and Utica how you see those sort of peak rates improving versus the 800 per day in the Eagle Ford and the 7.7 in the Utica? I'm just trying to get a sense of what type of expansion we could see there.
Sure it's a good question Neal.
I'm very excited about what we have in Eagle Ford and I think that as we are shifting to almost exclusively multi-well pads that you're going to see a significant improvement in our opportunity set in Eagle Ford as we drill out our 2014 program.
And I say that because of 2 things: one we're recognizing -- already recognizing and expect to continue to recognize significant reductions in our capital cost either through synergies of the multi-well pads or just the focus of being -- of our operations there and our supply chain efficiencies; but also that a lot of the testing to optimize EURs and optimize the IPs as well as downspacing -- so the number of levers that we have available to us at this point Neal are significant.
And as I've highlighted before in the past I personally believe that we have not had the opportunity to focus on all those different levers that lead to further cost reductions and greater EURs.
So as a result I expect during the year that we'll see expansion of what we would call core inventory and higher-quality projects and would accordingly expect to see increases with EUR and better efficiency.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up Doug just wondering in the Utica still obvious you're having some infrastructure issues that seem to be improving here quite quickly and you obviously have the tight chokes.
How much -- because of those 2 issues I mean are we going to see a nice ramp-up soon because of that? Or is that more second half this year? It's going to be more the second half of this year.
Chris may want to add a little further color.
Yes Neal it's Chris Doyle.
So we finished the year strong as I think I discussed with you.
The first quarter so far has been marked with some weather issues and bringing Natrium back on getting into ethane recoveries caused a little bit of hiccups.
Volumes are back up.
We just set a record for the business unit earlier this week.
So I like where we are.
I love the trajectory.
As we indicated in the slides and I have mentioned before it's an asset we're looking to expand capacity or double capacity by the end of this year.
One thing I might add on the -- on your original question on efficiency and one thing I discussed briefly was really the spot that Chesapeake's at in terms of Utica drilling more wells than anybody else having more data than anybody else.
We are in the pole position in terms of driving value.
On the efficiency side we indicate an average for 2014 of 13 days from spud to rig release.
We just finished up our second sub 8-day well just a massive efficiency that we're seeing in the system.
At the same time we just drilled a lateral that's over 2 miles long.
And so we're testing what the right recipe is but just extremely excited about the efficiency that we see.
And as we continue to drive towards value that's going to help us build that capacity that again we see doubling by the end of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one quick one if I could.
Just Doug on the gas delivery requirements I'm just wondering based on kind of your rig count now and I guess what you and Nick have modeled in the gas differentials would that account for kind of what you have forecast for the remainder of the year? Yes.
I think it may be important to note though as well that as we anticipate continued efficiencies then that will change as we go through the year.
Because obviously as we continue to improve on our capital -- drilling and completion capital that'll afford us opportunities for other options.
We'll take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> One thing I've been thinking about is as you separate Chesapeake Oilfield Services you bought back the rigs and compressors in the quarter are there any more buybacks or changes in rig commitments that we should expect going into that that'll be outflows of cash from Chesapeake? And then secondarily how does the Chesapeake Oilfield Services as a separate business 87% of revenues in the first 9 months of last year with Chesapeake how much marketing will be done outside of Chesapeake and how does that impact your thoughts on go-forward expenses and CapEx savings that you've had because of that business being inside the company? That's a good question David.
So the first question around how much outflow might we expect there are a little bit more in the way of rigs and compresses to buy back.
I noted in my commentary that we bought back some additional already in January and February.
We've got a little bit more to do although we've made good progress there.
So again we just think about that as something that facilitates the transaction so we're sort of prefunding that.
From a cost perspective -- or first from a third-party perspective the business has done a really fantastic job in handling the inbound interest really that has come for services to third parties.
We have not actively or aggressively marketed many of these services.
We've probably done a little bit more on rigs and had some very good quick success there as we noted in our release on Monday.
So we're pretty eager that the business is going to be well-received by the industry as a top-notch service provider and someone who is competitive and others want to use quickly.
There's been other inbound interest.
And as wouldn't be surprising there's inbound interest from some who say "We are interested in using your services but we'd be more interested if you were separate." And so that's part of what drives the decision here.
So we're eager for all of that to come together.
On the cost side there's a couple of things to think about there.
One we have a bit of EBITDA that we roll up which reflects the third-party nature of the cost to drill wells.
So for example our working interest partners and then any third-party business they do that would go away in the sale.
And then we also have an add back from CapEx that we would lose.
And so those things combined will impact our business somewhat in the short term.
But we believe that as we continue to drive efficiencies into our structure and as we continue to lower our well costs through different completion designs through increased -- or decreased spud-to-TD timing all of those things above we feel pretty good about what this will look like pro forma for Chesapeake.
We haven't given any of that guidance yet and I don't want to give it this morning until we're more certain [ph] about what it'll look like.
LLC</strong> Okay.
The net proceed -- or the proceeds of $650 million is that net of the prefunding of buyback of compressors and the like? Or is that...
They're not really apples to apples David.
Those are kind of 2 separate concepts.
But to the extent that anything in that required a buyback then yes they are.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just specifics on 1Q gas differentials Nick you had some thoughts of a dramatic improvement.
Can you just tell us where you think you are to date? Yes.
So again we really only have 1 month in the books for the first quarter but we saw a very significant improvement as everyone is well aware in the first quarter in Northeast cash pricing.
And we have very good access to some FTE in the Northeast.
We have pretty significant capacity on the new Spectra line into New York that obviously yielded a great net back in January and also again in February.
So we feel much better about where we are on that front in January and February.
I might just add on top of Nick's comments that as it was noted in the release on Monday my personal confidence in coming into the company and being here now about 8 months that -- and Jerry Winchester and the team that make up our oilfield service not only the leadership but the execution of that team in our projects I've been extremely pleased with and I have great confidence in the them.
And as they have been doing a great job for Chesapeake this is what I believe to be a natural step particularly given our strategy for them to expand out now and as we look at these separation alternatives and really for that organization to continue to grow.
And so my confidence in our continued work with them I see as being very close and they'll be a big part of our program as we go forward on the service side.
We'll take our next question from Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a question first on the Utica can you just remind us how much carry is left out there? When do you expect that to run out? And after the carry would that change the capital allocation decision in terms of where you'd like to be spending your money by region? I think just a quick note Chris can provide some additional color on that but we anticipate that carry to go through the year.
And I think it's important to note that the focus in concentrated investments that we've had up to this point in time in the Utica have been directed at improving the profitability improving the capital efficiency.
And as we go forward the -- what is building now is a very competitive high-quality asset in our portfolio.
And so the funding levels as we go forward will be driven by how we can capture the greatest value and Utica will continue to be a significant part of our investment portfolio on a go -- on an ongoing basis.
Amir this Chris Doyle.
Just a little bit of additional color.
So we ended the year with just under $600 million of carry remaining.
We project that given some of the efficiencies some of the churn that we're seeing all good stuff that we could see that in the fourth quarter come off.
It's not as Doug said going to impact our allocation.
We see a world-class asset here and it will -- what will drive the capital allocation is our ability to continue to fill that capacity going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick question on the proved reserves do you have a breakdown of how much of the PUDs are gas versus oil or will that just be out in the 10-K? We'll have it all detailed out for you in the 10-K.
The -- it's going to very closely approximate the current breakout of what total proved is comprised of which is basically 73% gas 27% liquids.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just one quick clarification the $1 billion in proceeds that you're expecting that does not include the oilfield services is that correct? I'm sorry Amir can you repeat that? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> The $1 billion you mentioned in potential proceeds in 2014 from asset sales that does not include the oilfield services? I just wanted to clarify that.
That's correct.
Those are all near-term very kind of actively-and-close-to-completion things.
We'll take our next question from Mike Kelly with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the gas realization front and in particular just interested in how these Barnett contracts work and how much of the $0.30 decrease in realizations sequentially was due to that versus just low prices in the Northeast? Sure.
So the Q4 differentials just to go back and remind you kind of where we were in our outlook at the end of Q3 we put out a range of $1.30 to $1.50.
Included in our assumption for that was the MVC as it came to fruition.
So really the difference that drove where we ended up in the fourth quarter was basis differentials for the most part and it was across primarily the Northeast but there were also impacts in South Texas and in the Haynesville.
So we saw basis differentials be an issue really across the company there.
The fourth quarter I guess sequential you can do the math on but it was about a $35 million payment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
That's helpful.
Appreciate that.
And then Doug just as it pertains to your mandate to really reduce the complexity at Chesapeake I was just hoping you could talk about what maybe your major priorities are here? We've seen you guys buy back some of the preferred shares in the Utica L.L.C.
maybe you could talk about that potentially the VPP front.
You now have the announcement on the oilfield service side so maybe what the major priorities are here? You bet Mike.
I appreciate you asking.
The 2 real significant priorities that are in line with our strategy is to continue to drive greater efficiency into our investment program.
And that is not just on a reducing capital intensity side but also working the denominator and improving our EURs.
And then also on the exploitation side continuing to build and expand our core areas.
I have very very strong confidence in the initial results we're seeing with some of our pad drilling points to what I believe will be very very good solid core expansion which will result in greater value to our shareholders.
And then also in that same -- with that priority comes the cash cost management in reducing our cash costs we've seen significant improvement in 2013 versus 2012.
And then as you focus on what guidance we've provided Mike for 2014 we're seeing continued improvements in our G&amp;A costs as well as our production costs.
And I'm very excited about that and look for those margins to continue to improve.
And with our capital efficiencies and those cash cost improvements it's just going to provide us a lot more optionality.
The second thing and equally as important to me as a priority is this focus on how we continue to restore and build greater strength of our balance sheet.
And the asset sales that we're looking at and the things that we're considering for 2014 are a direct reflection of a competitive capital allocation process where do we see our funding going to provide top quartile strategic growth metrics for Chesapeake.
As you all are aware some of our efficiencies and performance metrics have not been as high as we believe internally they are capable of being.
And we have the assets we have the confidence in these assets we have the talent in this organization in our employee base to drive top quartile results.
And so we believe very strongly that the asset base we have some assets are going to get funding and some won't.
And so either based on maturity or how they compete for capital going forward that's where we're going to be focused in our disposition program.
We'll go to our next question Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could I clarify something that you mentioned to make sure I understood it correctly? Did you say that post 2014 you don't see any need to sell additional assets is that correct? Well the -- no that's not what I intended to represent.
It's going to all be based on value and how we can optimize value for our shareholders.
The key is as we look at our portfolio and what's contributing to the strategic growth metrics of the company and how we get to be a top performer is what those priorities and strategies directed.
We continue -- I believe we'll continue to see opportunities to improve.
And in some cases it may be add to our asset base to provide greater value for our shareholders.
So we've got a very heavy focused 2014 program that -- with some of the liabilities and the complexity that is provided on our balance sheet that we're looking to improve and will improve in 2014 and some of that could extend into 2015.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And so when you step back and look is there like a target debt metric that we should think about? Or where do we want that to go for you guys to feel comfortable? And if you did find an opportunity to add an asset like you just mentioned how would that -- what would that funding look like? Is equity off the table or is that still an option available to you all? Yes Scott.
We've continued to say and will continue to say that equity is not something we expect to pursue.
I've also said several times and I'll stand by that I don't want to give anybody a hard and fast 1-debt metric.
There's a lot of metrics we look at across our portfolio of our balance sheet.
And what I will continue to say though is that we want to be a firmly investment-grade credit.
And so we have some distance to travel to get there but we feel like we have a plan in place to accomplish it.
The 2 things are so closely aligned where Doug talks about wanting to have a more competitive set of assets assets that are focused on where we can generate the highest rates of return and the assets that demand the capital from within a competitive capital allocation process as well as then a desire to improve our balance sheet.
Given the breadth of our portfolio as you think about an appropriately-sized capital program there's a number of assets that won't compete for capital.
There's a number of assets where we can't be as efficient in operating it as somebody else can because they're more cored up in the area because it's more of their primary area or it's just something that would be more attractive in their portfolio relative to ours.
As a result of that there's going to continue to be assets that strategically we think we ought to sell.
Those 2 things are perfectly connected to each other and they all yield something that allows us to greatly improve our balance sheet.
So we feel really good about where we're headed with all of these things.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you look at the E&amp;P assets is there any like [indiscernible] are there any assets there that are just too good that you don't want to give up? Or when you're looking to move Chesapeake down this road to get to more capital efficiency and investment-grade are you just going to do what makes sense and do what needs to be done? Well it's going to all be directed at how we accomplish the greatest value for the company and for our shareholders.
And I'll tell you though when you look at the improving efficiencies what I see out of the operating teams is it's going to be ever increasingly difficult to make those decisions because they're continuing to drive greater and greater value.
And -- but we know we need to continue to make strides in that direction.
And obviously the liquid plays have a major role in our portfolio but we also like the significant strength that exists in our gas portfolio on a go-forward basis.
So it really is just going to be based on what assets are going to continue to compete for funding and how can we optimize the strategic metrics to drive us to that top quartile.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- okay.
No that's fair enough.
And one last one quickly if I could.
You mentioned weather impacts a couple of times and kind of talked around various areas that might have had some impacts.
Could you be a little bit more specific? It sounds like maybe some in the Utica.
And when you say the Mid-Con is that the Mississippi and that that had some impact in? On a relative basis where was it the heaviest? Sure we can provide that for you.
This is Jason.
Really the 2 impacts in there on a net basis fairly equally impacted were the Mid-Con.
Again it was impacted by a lot of freezing weather.
Again it's one of our oil-producing areas.
The challenge there is you get some snow and ice on the roads it makes it difficult to pick up those oil loads sometimes.
The other was South Texas which happened a little bit earlier in that quarter.
We had a significant rain event there that caused some flooding washed out some roads.
We had one of our stimulation crews kind of trapped on a location there that prevented some of the wells coming on as well.
So those are the 2 major events kind of equally impacted us in each area.
Scott in the Uticas I mentioned before we had some weather in January and February not surprisingly given the area.
The other impact was just the start up -- back start-up of Natrium and getting into ethane recovery flowing into Kensington.
We continue to work those issues out.
Volumes are back up.
These are not lost volumes these are deferred volumes.
And so we really look forward to continuing to see the growth out of that play.
We'll go to our next question Matt Portillo with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions for me I was wondering if you could give us an update on where your Utica well costs stand at the moment? And then you've previously talked about kind of a 5- to 10 Bcf-type curve.
I was wondering if you could provide any more color on how the wells have been performing versus that previous metric.
Yes Matt this is Chris Doyle.
I think we'll have a chance in May to get into the details but let me just give you a high-level color.
What we see in well costs again is we're doing things out there that nobody else can do.
We're seeing well costs in the 7s low-7s going forward.
And most recently as I mentioned some sub 8-day wells.
Just tremendous value tremendous efficiency in the system.
Where we are today though is not only attacking the cost side but attacking that EUR side and looking for completion efficiencies tighter cluster spacing all those things that will drive our EURs.
We're firmly in that guidance range of the type curve that we provided before and honestly looking to push outside the top of that as we continue to potentially increase well costs but drive for a better solution and more value in that asset.
And I said I think we'll have a chance and look forward to the chance to share more details with not only Utica but across the play as we're doing many of the same things across our portfolio in May.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a quick follow-up question to a previous question on the OFS business.
I was wondering if you could guys provide kind of a range on where the EBITDA margin stands at the moment? We're going to stay away from specifics like that for oilfield services and be able to talk to you more about it as we get closer.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question just on the Haynesville.
Looking through the presentation you guys I think are highlighting 80-acre spacing.
We've seen some of the recent -- your industry peers moving out wider on that in regards to potential interference on the wells.
I wanted to just see how you guys are thinking about the well performance to date and how you guys are thinking about spacing on a go-forward basis? This is Jason again.
We're actually developing most of our pads in the Haynesville on 160-acre spacing right now.
Again it's one of the things that we have an advantage of coming in later with the pad drilling to be able to look at our peers see what some of -- they have done.
Again we have seen in some instances like you suggest that they have over-downspaced there so it's something that we're looking at.
We've got a team that's really focused on looking at it now and looking at rock quality doing some numerical simulations looking at their stimulation designs there.
So we've got a rigorous program kind of in place to find out what the right spacing is there.
We gave ourselves some opportunity to come in and infill if we feel like it's necessary on that area.
Again one of the things we really highlight is our cost control there as well.
We've seen a significant improvement the last 3 or 4 wells as we've got a supply chain management system put in place.
We've also created new completions teams that are 100% focused on the completions from our wells versus a base team that's focused on minimizing our base declines.
So they have really had a major impact this last quarter.
I think again we're estimating we could be down as low as 7.8 is kind of what's in here but we're starting to hit that already.
And I see us being able to beat in the future as this system continues to get optimized.
And we'll take our next question from Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Curious out in the Eagle Ford there's been some talk the last couple of days or week or so about the -- kind of the western Eagle Ford and I know you guys have some acreage out that way.
Can you comment maybe on what you're seeing out in that area and how you're looking at that going forward? Yes.
We are -- again we're excited about our acreage in the Western Eagle Ford.
Again one of our competitors had kind of had some negative results.
But we watch our competition pretty well.
We've got some -- we've got higher permeability of rock in some of our Western Eagle Ford acreage.
We're also again on less dense spacing there.
We're kind of drilling more at the 660-foot versus some of the peers who are more like 450-foot spacing.
So this is another chance where again transitioning to the pad drilling a little bit slower has allowed us to watch what some of the competition is doing.
So we're getting really good wells out there and excited about that program.
And don't really -- we're not really pulling back from it right now.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just curious on the Utica obviously with the big ramp in NGLs for the year as a company what are you seeing? Is the Utica going to be one of those pretty big drivers? Do you have an idea of what the mix is going to be as you get it to less of a constrained situation throughout the year? Yes Jason this is Chris Doyle.
Utica will be one of the drivers.
We've got the ATEX commitment that I'm sure you're familiar with.
As we fill that both from Utica volumes and Marcellus South volumes that's going to facilitate that ramp in NGLs.
I'll tell you though it's not a static equation here.
We look at NGL pricing and we'll continue to make the best value decision for the company.
But yes those 2 assets Utica and Marcellus will be what's driving the NGL ramp for the company in '14.
We'll take our next question from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
What is the economic limit or breakeven natural gas price for the Haynesville Shale operations? And can you also qualify or quantify rather the midstream commitments in terms of volumes in term for that operation? I'll make an initial comment and then Jason can provide a little bit more color on it Dan.
The -- while the breakeven prices is often the attractive metric that we go to when you can crush $1 million or $2 million out of your well cost that driver is huge in our economics.
And the focus on the efficiencies and testing some of the new strategies there to optimize our EURs and capitalizing on the supply chain as Jason noted earlier it's going to drive that breakeven price down considerably.
And I think it's also important to note that as an industry what took place in the Haynesville was not necessarily a positive thing in the past 3 of 5 years and the amount of capital that was invested and what as a result we saw in the gas market.
But our focus in the Haynesville is almost surgical and precise and we know exactly what we need to do to drive the cost down.
We're recognizing it as we speak.
And the competitiveness in terms of not only in our portfolio and what it can do for us is -- also has longer-term implications as you have a very very strong high-quality asset capable of providing gas not only to the domestic market but more importantly to a global market as the LNG infrastructure gets built out along the Gulf Coast.
So we think that the opportunity there rather than looking at what the breakeven price is I prefer to focus on the fact that the work that's being done to drive the cost is immediate value to the company.
And Jason would you provide any more color there? Yes I don't have too much to add there.
Again I just remember when we first came in we did an analysis where $1 million was equivalent of $1 per Mcf in gas price.
So again as we continue to drive costs down the breakeven point goes down further.
Again we're really excited about the program out there the optimization that we're making so hesitate to put a breakeven price on there.
One of the other things we're doing is they've allowed some new rules to drill cross-unit laterals which allows us to complete more feet per well.
So that's another thing that we're continuing to look out there and try to optimize on as being able to maximize our lateral length in the play which is another factor that again improves overall well economics.
Okay great.
And then just turning to volume commitments minimum volume commitments as part of the last question can you quantify for us what amount of production is obligated and in what operating areas remembering you mentioned the Barnett Shale in your prepared remarks? I'm sorry can you repeat that? Yes just on the minimum volume commitments company-wide can you quantify the amount of production that is obligated and in what operating areas just remembering that you had mentioned the Barnett Shale as one example in your prepared remarks? Yes that's actually something we're looking towards providing probably a little bit more detail on in our Analyst Day.
We did give you in our outlook a breakout of what we were forecasting as minimum volume commitments for both the Barnett and the Haynesville separately.
So we're looking to doing some additional breakout of that and other FTE at our Analyst Day.
But overall again I'll repeat what we've been saying here those are the 2 minimum volume commitments that we're focused on and then the rest of it we're actively managing.
And we need to get our gas to market so we feel good about that overall portfolio of positions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys just a follow up on the Eagle Ford.
Jason asked about your Western acreage there and I'll be specific about it.
We've got 2 updates earlier this week and last week on reserve revisions.
And to be very specific SM's Area-1 acreage took a pretty big hit.
Just wanted to hear your take on how your acreage is around theirs there? And if there's the risk that there's a potential negative revision in your future as well? No.
Again we've just done our on fourth quarter reserves and I looked at Eagle Ford overall and we had positive performance improvements for that acreage.
Again we tend to book a little bit conservatively.
But again I think the things that if you -- again all of the Eagle Ford is not uniform as far as rock quality.
And so again we've mapped higher permeability streaks underneath our acreage.
And again if you looked immediately across the lease line again our estimate is that St.
Mary's averaged about 450-foot spacing versus our 660.
So again we've got -- if you have interference and things like that that can negatively impact performance as well as the rock quality.
So again we pooled our wells versus theirs and our wells significantly outperform theirs based on the data that I've got.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick question on oilfield services.
Would you prefer a sale versus a spin because the sale is going to get you actually some cash? And if you were to go down the route of a spin like what does that do for you strategically and structurally and in terms of simplifying just the company as a whole? It's a really good question Joe one that at this point we probably are not going to be able to give you a whole lot more color on today.
I'll tell you that the driver there is to capture the greatest amount of value that we can.
And we think that both options a spin or a sale have pros and cons associated with them.
But it really is going to be on a value basis.
And as we proceed here with our consideration of strategic alternatives in the next few weeks and months it will -- we'll be able to provide more color.
Nick do you want to add to that? I think that's right.
I mean there's value components to each of those paths and we'll continue to look at what will provide the best value.
As you think about what it will do for us structurally and what are the benefits look we are focusing all of our teams across the company on delivering the best value in our E&amp;P operations and driving costs out of our system.
And as a result of that when you're managing 2 separate businesses there's going to be some excess cost in the system we think sort of generally as you manage 2 very separate processes.
And we think that the focus that comes to our overall business and to our teams of being a pure E&amp;P company is a big improvement to us and we think that there are further efficiencies that we can drive through our back-office processes et cetera to deliver more value.
The other thing I would add there Joe is that there are balance sheet improvements that come through this whether it's a spin or a sale and we don't really have -- need the cash right away.
And so a spin can be a really good answer here.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then I think Mike Kelly was -- when the first time he got on I think he was asking if I'm not mistaken just about the complexity and you're -- the specific steps you're going to take to reduce complexity.
So could -- rather than just talk about sort of your key strategic objectives could you specifically talk about like what are the things that you think you need to do over the next year or 2 or 3 to reduce the complexity of the company? Well that's a great question Joe.
And I think that as you are very keenly aware and the other analysts are aware the balance sheet -- when we talk about complexity and all of the different financial arrangements the commitments the obligations the different instruments that we've used for essentially to fund for debt or to fund our program we just need to clean those things up.
We are an -- we are going to be an efficient well-run E&amp;P company.
And the strategic metrics that we're trying to accomplish are -- we're not trying to be in the middle of the pack.
We believe we have the assets.
We believe we have the people and the capability to be a top-performing E&amp;P company.
And what I really love is the alignment of the strategy and the things that we're seeing so far.
As we're working through some of these challenges we still see significant opportunity.
But these -- a lot of these residual legacy balance sheet issues what I'm very pleased about is that we have the capability to -- with reduced capital to continue to demonstrate growth and we expect that to continue to improve.
And we also have the ability with the balance sheet and with the assets that we have to improve and fix our balance sheet.
And so without giving too many specifics on it I think that just in general you are very aware as everyone else is that we just have a lot of noise on the balance sheet that needs to be improved so our story becomes simpler better to understand.
And the clarity that we provide to you and the investment community is how we can add more value for our shareholders.
And so everything that we've been working on in the past part of the year in 2013 and everything we're focused on now is driven in that direction.
Well I think we're at the top of the hour operator.
And I just want to thank everyone for tuning in and for the questions.
If anyone has any follow-up questions I would just ask you to please reach out to Gary.
We look forward to continuing to share the progress of the company in the next coming quarters and in 2014.
And we're also very excited to share more asset detail in how we're continuing to drive additional value as well as update on the status and progress with our balance sheet efforts to improve at our Analyst Day on May 16 here in Oklahoma City.
So with that that concludes our call.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation's Q1 2014 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gary Clark.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lauren and good morning and thank you all for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2014 first quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the updated investor presentation that we posted to our website this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which consists of statements that cannot to be confirmed by reference to existing information.
Including statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and at Pages 23 to 31 of our February 27 2014 10-K and in the Company's other SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
I would next like to introduce the members of management who are on the call with me today: Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Senior Vice President of Operations Northern Division; Jason Pigott our Senior Vice President of Operations Southern Division; and John Reinhart our Senior Vice President of Operations and Technical Services.
As a reminder we will be hosting our 2014 Analyst Day in Oklahoma City on Friday May 16.
This event will be webcasted and details can be found on our website.
We will next turn to prepared commentary from Doug and Nick and then we will move to Q&amp;A.
Doug? Thank you Gary and good morning.
I hope that everyone's had the opportunity to review our 2014 first quarter results issued earlier this morning.
It was an excellent growth quarter for Chesapeake.
We reported year-over-year adjusted net productions growth of 11% adjusted EBITDA growth of 34% and adjusted earnings per share growth of 97%.
I'm particularly proud that we've achieved this growth while running a disciplined capital expenditure program that is approximately 50% less than a year ago.
This morning we're also very pleased to note that we've raised our 2014 full year operating cash flow guidance by $700 million to $5.8 billion to $6 billion.
We've increased our production growth guidance to 9% to 12% up from 8% to 10% on an adjusted basis and we've maintained our capital guidance to $5.2 billion to $5.6 billion.
The ability to provide this growth and capital efficiency demonstrates the power of Chesapeake portfolio as the industry is beginning emerge from a prolonged period of depressed natural gas prices and as we focus our efforts on generating incremental shareholder value out of every $1 spent.
Our cash flow increase is prompted by a number of factors including better than expected first quarter operating cash flow performance and increase in our production outlook a decrease in our expense outlook for the remainder of the year and an increase in our benchmark oil and natural gas price deck to $95 and $4.50 respectively which is more reflective to the current pricing.
Nick will cover the rest of our outlook changes in more detail later in the call.
As noted in our press release this morning overall production that quarter was impacted by approximately 7 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day of weather related down time.
Mainly affecting our mid-continent assets but still within our forecasted weather related downtime that's in our guidance.
In the Eagle Ford production was down slightly on a sequential basis due to a combination of factors including gas gathering and processing facility down time.
Operator and competitor offset activity related shut-ins and weather related activity reductions.
April production trends in both the Mid-Continent and the Eagle Ford give us a high degree of confidence that most of these issues are now behind us and we believe the production growth particularly on the oil side is poised to grow sequentially for the remainder of the year.
Notably our average daily production rate in the Eagle Ford is currently 95 000 barrels of oil equivalent which is roughly 8% above the daily average rate in the first quarter and I'd like to note that we plan to exist the year in the Eagle Ford at a substantially higher rate than December of 2013.
In the Utica and Southern Marcellus the startup of our ATEX pipeline shipments ahead of forecast combined with stronger first quarter production from these areas has resulted in a very robust NGL growth profile.
These are primary factors behind the increase in our 2014 adjusted production growth outlook to 10% to 12% as the lowest cost anchored ship are on ATEX.
Chesapeake is well positioned to maximize its margins and its region via our valuable ownership of firm transportation on the ATEX pipeline.
Chesapeake has and will continue to evaluate opportunities to utilize third-party ethane volumes to fulfill capacity commitments and reject the portion of our own ethane.
Given the rapidly growing regional production profile and the potential for BTU related pipeline restrictions we are very pleased with our transportation on ATEX and we intend to use this asset strategically to maximize our margins and maintain ethane recovery flexibility.
Turning to capital expenditures despite a very low level of spending in the first quarter.
We still anticipate total CapEx within our previously stated range of $5.2 billion to $5.6 billion for the full year 2014.
Total capital expenditures in the 2014 first quarter were approximately $850 million of which drilling and completion capital were approximately $729 million.
We invested cash of $882 million during the first quarter and drilling and completion activities which was partially offset by lower than estimated drilling and completion costs and other adjustments related to prior period of approximately $153 million.
Net expenditures for the acquisition of unproved properties were approximately $24 million and other capital expenditures were approximately $97 million.
In the first quarter our drilling and completion CapEx decreased 37% sequentially from the 2013 fourth quarter in part because we completed approximately 15% fewer well.
This decrease in completions is largely due to the timing impact of increased pad drilling which can delay the completion and connection of new level until an entire pad is drilled out.
We expect many of the pads drilled during the first quarter will be completed and connected during the second quarter and the E&amp;P CapEx will rise accordingly.
Additionally and given the severe weather experienced during the first quarter.
We voluntarily delayed some completion activity from the first quarter to the second quarter.
Improved capital efficiency was also an important driver of our lower spending during the first quarter.
We reduced our average capital cost per well by several $100 000 in the first quarter of 2014 compared to our 2013 average well cost.
Consequently we are spending substantially fewer capital dollars year-over-year while still achieving or exceeding our production growth targets.
As part of the strategic initiative to reduce future corporate obligations and complexity.
We chose to utilize a portion of the excess cash we generated during the quarter to purchase a number of rigs and compressors subject to long-term lease agreements.
These transactions will reduce future cash commitments and help facilitate asset sales in the possible spin-off or sale or our Chesapeake oil filled services unit.
Chesapeake has undergone a remarkable transformation.
Our strategies and financial discipline and profitable and efficient growth from captured resources are becoming readily apparent in our results and are generating foundational improvements across the business.
I'm extremely proud of the Chesapeake team and the rapid pace in which we had embraced our challenges and opportunities.
We will relentlessly pursue continuous improvement and drive towards our goal of becoming a top performing E&amp;P Company.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call over to Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer.
Nick? Thanks Doug and good morning.
I'm very pleased with our financial performance this quarter and the progress we continue to make in simplifying our balance sheet and reducing leverage cost.
In our updated investor presentation posted at chk.com this morning.
We've included slides to provide more detail in some of the topics that I'm going to discuss on this call including changes to our 2014 outlook natural gas differentials and basis hedging and balance sheet improvements.
As Doug mentioned in his opening remarks.
We increased our 2014 operating cash flow outlook to the range of $5.8 billion to $6 billion.
Which is an increase to $700 million from the prior outlook midpoint.
The drivers of this increase are attributable to the following.
First approximately $340 million is associated with an increase in our benchmark oil and gas price forecast for the remainder of 2014.
Net of hedging impacts and increases in oil and NGL differential.
Note that our new oil and gas price deck per second quarter through fourth quarter is $95 per barrel and $4.50 per Mcf that from our previous assumptions of $90 per barrel and $4 per Mcf.
Second; approximately $190 million of our operating cash flow increase is associated with a change in the hedging presentation assumptions embedded in our outlook.
Previously our outlook guidance treated all realized hedging gains and losses as cash and all unrealized gains and losses as non-cash.
However a portion of our realized hedging gains and losses actually consists of non-cash amortization from previously closed our hedges.
The new outlook guidance presentation we've adopted includes only cash related to hedging gains and losses and excludes non-cash amortization which we believe more accurately aligns with reported cash flow.
Please note that cash flow from operating activities on a GAAP basis is unaffected by this presentation change they only effect our outlook and improves the accuracy of our estimated cash flow.
Lastly approximately $117 million of the operating cash flow increased projected for 2014 is associated with our increased production outlook for 2014 coupled with Chesapeake oil field services net margin improvements as well as the various other expense improvement that I'll cover shortly.
Next I would like to discuss the positive impact that strong Northeast natural gas price realizations had on our first quarter results and I would also like to provide some detail in our natural gas basis hedges for the months of April through October of 2014.
On a companywide basis As a reminder in November 2013 Chesapeake began delivering natural gas from its Northern Marcellus play into the Spectra pipeline which receives pricing at the TETCO-M3 hub and accesses the Manhattan market.
During the 2014 first quarter the company delivered approximately $425 million a day to the TETCO-M3 hub where we received an average premium to Nymex Henry Hub prices in excess of $5 per Mcf.
These volumes represented approximately 30% at Chesapeake net northern Marcellus production during the first quarter.
The company estimates at this firm transportation commitment on the Spectra line enabled it to generate $210 million of incremental operating cash flow over sales and the Basin during the first quarter.
It is important to point out that the positive effects of the premium pricing in the Northeast I just described were largely known at the time we issued our 2014 outlook guidance on February 6 and as a result our full year 2014 natural gas price outlook remains unchanged at a $1.60 to $1.70 per Mcf.
Looking ahead Chesapeake expect the TETCO-M3 natural gas prices will revert to a discount to Nymex Henry Hub in the months of May through October and as accordingly entered into basis hedges on a significant portion of its 2014 gas to be delivered at TETCO-M3 as well as other sales points related to its northern Marcellus production.
Please refer to Slides 12 and 13 of our updated investor presentation on chk.com which includes new disclosure on our natural gas sales points basis hedges and associated volumes in the Northeast Marcellus the Utica and the Southern Marcellus.
To wrap up I'd like to walk you through a few of our other outlook changes and key elements that drove the quarterly results on the cost of margin side.
We are pleased to increase our projected oil field services operations net margin by $25 million for 2014 which reflect the general impact of improving industry trends and increase third-party utilization of our services equipment.
On the cost side we are reducing the high-end of our G&amp;A expense range to a $1.30 per boe from $1.40 per boe as we continue to achieve cost savings to discipline spending.
Production cost during the first quarter came in at $4.73 per boe.
Our full year 2014 outlook range anticipate decrease in unit production cost as we realized additional volume growth throughout the year.
However so we are leading our production cost range of $4.25 to $4.75 per Mboe unchanged.
Turning to interest expense we are reducing the expect to grant by $0.20 per boe to reflect the impact of our recently completed $3 billion debt refinancing which reduces our weighted average interest cost from 5.9% to 5.1% and its projected to generate an estimated annual cash interest cost saving of $115 million.
We are also beginning to see the benefit of our capital efficiency programs in our DD&amp;A rate and accordingly have produced our DD&amp;A outlook by $0.50 per boe.
That concludes my remarks thank you for your time this morning and we will now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will start the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead.
Nick you had some comments on the differential outlook going forward.
Just hoping you take this one step further and for modeling purposes what should we dial in for 2Q and 3Q if you kind of give us a head start there? Well to avoid getting into too much granularity on the call Mike.
I'll just remind you that we did keep our range at a $1.60 to $1.70 and also I'll point out that in the first quarter we did bank in our expectations of cold weather as we presented our outlook in February.
However when we did so we still did see incremental high prices through the remainder of the quarter.
What that ends up doing in certain contracts where we have basically a value component to the transportation price is that when you have the spikes in prices there are some contracts we pay higher transportation cost and so actually even though our realized prices came in even higher than expected at that time in February so did our transportation cost as a result.
So while we bank in a big portion of that improvement there was an incremental transaction cost in the first quarter that we couldn't predict at that time.
So relative to where we were then the $1.60 to $1.70 for the remainder of this year takes into account that incremental cost at first quarter stood it's actually the better than it was in February.
Okay appreciate that and if I look at your guidance in terms of the real drivers of the increased here in the production side.
It looks like it is NGL driven primarily and we certainly could talk about the composition of that.
Is this mostly more ethane stripping which is the driver of that and if it is  maybe can you just talk about the fact there's that would potentially take oil production guidance higher as you go throughout the year here given comments that the Eagle Ford looks fairly south going into Q1 here.
Thanks Hi Mike this is Chris Doyle.
Let me touch on the NGL's the big driver there is really in our at south business unit which includes the Marcellus South and Utica and thus ATEX came online in January.
We started recovering NGL's shipping ethane down ATEX through January Marcellus South and we brought in Utica in March.
Haynesville came in a little bit ahead of schedule which is great.
The team's on the field executing on a significant production ramp that we had risked down in our forecast and that we should start seeing plans saying thus we get very comfortable with the ethane and NGL reserves from those stream and so that gives us the confidence looking forward to go ahead and range that guidance.
Already a very stout NGL growth guidance we put out in February.
In terms of oil I'll just touch on the Rocky's.
As we know we are hard to constrain until the fourth quarter.
We are moving ahead with [indiscernible] there's a big chunk in oil volumes in the fourth quarter.
I'll get you to Jason to touch on Eagle Ford and Mid-Con and the other two oil [indiscernible].
As far as Eagle Ford again we had a transition with a rig fleet.
So we've moved from of high enough 32 rigs in 2012 to low of 10 in 2013.
So we've ramped back up during this first quarter up to 20 rigs with two stutters and we've also transitioned the pad drilling.
So we've had a little bit low down this first quarter but that was totally anticipated so looking forward to grow oil volumes out of that.
Eagle Ford and those first set pad could drills and then the wells start to come online and looking forward to the growth there and Mid-Cons is really spanning storage for especially in our mid mine plays.
We hit out record rate down there at 30 pounds in barrels a day in Mid-Con north.
So very excited about the progress we are seeing Mid-Con as far as our big oil growth engine there.
So again I think we're going to look probably well by a year end as far as oil growth in part.
Appreciate that if I [speak] one more just on the capital efficiency front here.
Doug I was hoping you would -- could quantify just give us your thoughts on how far along we are in the goal to get well cost down to $1 million across the board in each one of your basins per well.
Thanks.
Sure Mike excuse me.
I'm glad you asked that question.
As everyone is aware we set out a goal at the end of 2013 fourth quarter.
As part of our capital efficiency improvements in the company we are going to drive $1 million per well of our capital program.
And we have made substantial progress in every single area in which we are investing.
Our outlook for the year that was a program that we were looking to achieve and accomplish over the course of 2014.
We essentially have captured good amount of that if not all of it in several areas and we still have more opportunities through efficiencies and synergies that we anticipate that we can capture and so excellent progress with that respect.
We'll be providing more detail on an asset basis at the Analyst Day next week and provide more color around how all those capital efficiencies are getting captured and where we anticipate further capital efficiency to be recognized in our program going forward.
Good deal great quarter and look forward to the update next week.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
I appreciate the detailed explanation on the basis differential but obviously some things that's never enough.
So if you comment I'm just trying to dig thought a little bit more in to this.
What I'm curious about is as per Haynesville production kicks back in towards the back end of the year in terms of growth that is an obvious with the big ramp you have in the Utica.
What is the mix change due to the basis outlook because I'm guessing you've got a bit more flexibility then perhaps beyond your current mid-stream commitments to be able to see improvements perhaps you're not making for numbers right now.
So I'm just wondering if that was part of what we saw in Q1 or if I'm just completely off base and appreciate that color.
Sure Doug this is Nick.
I'll take that.
So we are expecting an increase in our Haynesville production this year as we ramp a rig activity there as we previously noted.
The timing on that of course to key to figuring out exactly how many volumes come in this year versus next year and determining what the MBC impact will be so as you think about what I said earlier about the $1.60 to $1.70 staying where it is for the remainder of the year and that being actually an improvement on where we thought it would be in February for the remaining three quarters.
The Haynesville MBC as we are getting ramped up there is probably a bit higher than we thought it would be then and the Barnett is lower as we have seen better production come out of our Barnett wells than we anticipated beginning of the year and as we see some opportunities to bring on some low cost completions and things like that in the second half of the year.
So we continue to stay on top of the forecast of that overall MBC impact and our second half of the year is lower than we anticipated originally and we'll always continue to try to optimize our capital program around this types of items that we can take advantage of opportunities where they'd be basis like we saw in the Northeast or whether they'd be transportation related to optimize the contracts we have in place.
Forgive me for pushing this but if you look into 2015 and beyond.
Can you  just given the rough start is to how you would expect that basis differential to evolve? You know there's so many components to it there Doug when you talk about transportation as well as basis.
So it's a bit hard for me to do that until we get into really giving the streaks and detail on our capital allocation across our assets and where we see the best return coming out for shareholders and how we go about prosecuting the program for 2015.
I'll say you that it certainly would not be in our forecast to have the same strength of winter that we had this year.
We'd all love to forecast that but that's probably not realistic so we wouldn't necessarily have that basis improvement there and from a transportation side.
We will have some of the same types of challenges around where our firm transportation and MBC's are but we think its manageable was this year where we optimize our capital program around that.
And we think potentially there is opportunities to continue to do that and improve what we see.
Thanks my follow-up maybe a little bit more philosophical and Doug I guess this one would be for you but there's been a little bit of speculation that perhaps you would be prepared to look outside the US strategically as you move forward.
Now obviously other than from analyst update but I just wonder if there was really any substance to that or obviously you've got lot of winter chop to-date but how do you feel about the overall direction and the company going forward now I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Thanks Doug that's a great question and I really appreciate you asking it.
I think you categorize it properly that we've got a lot of wood to chop.
I think we've making a lot of progress on several fronts.
The efficiency in our programs our cash costs our capital program the synergies operationally that we are capturing.
I just  I cannot be more excited about the progress that we are making.
What we see with our high quality assets is great growth potential and excellent running room and as the company continues to grow.
The strength of our assets provide us live flexibility I think we have an outstanding portfolio highly competitive portfolio compared to our peers.
So I'm very pleased with that and I want to highlight and point to our strategy which is the financial discipline which were making great progress on.
And the second point profitable and efficient growth from capturing resources and the emphasis there is that the captured word is there for a specific reason Doug.
It is there because we are focused on driving the greatest value from these assets unless said I think that it's important to note and I've shared in an few external presentations that the Chesapeake [indiscernible] besides talent the company's speed the operational capability and expertise is outstanding.
And as the world and countries around the world look for opportunities to develop their own unconventional or shale resources.
Chesapeake has that expertise and could potentially be part of it.
I believe it's something that we should evaluate we have not made any commitments to enter into the international arena but I do believe that in the company's future that could be a possibility we just have to be very careful that we do not comprise the value creation story from our current assets and it has to be very prudent value accretive to our shareholders.
So as everyone is aware there's different risk profile international and the last thing we are going to do is in anyway what so ever sacrifice any value for our shareholders in our growth stories.
So that's we'll leave it in response to your question but there is extremely good growth opportunities in our current assets and for the size of the company there's an optional lever there that can potentially be pulled but it has to make good sense for our shareholders and the company's growth progress going forward.
I appreciate the answer Doug.
I'll see you next week.
Thank you.
Great.
Thanks.
Doug.
Our next question is from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice Brokerage.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Doug I want to go back to a kind of discrete comment you made in your prepared remarks about the ATEX line.
It sounds like what you're considering is perhaps not doing just doing partial ethane recover to get down to pipelines back and then using your extra capacity on the ATEX line to buy heavily discounted ethane that other people have to strip out to meet pipelines back.
Have it got the right read on that? Yes that's a fairer look at of what we're trying to describe.
The ATEX pipeline gives us a tremendous amount of flexibility and strength there with our production.
And I guess what I'm really after is what is  so you're able to where is that going to be show up I'm guessing it will be in the marketing midstream line and what kind of order magnitude are you up are we talking about as far as the value capture opportunity there? Well we haven't put that exactly level of detail out in our guidance yet.
The key in my mind is the flexibility that it offer too much with the production growth area and it's optionality how we can capture the greatest value for our shareholders given that assets and that those that capacity that we have available to us.
Got it so several birds and the bush just none in the hand yet and then shifting back over to the Utica.
I'm wondering you guys had some midstream challenges with the Natrium plant fire and but that's in the past.
You now got the ATEX line up can you talk about how that play whether more interested in the well performance and the takeaway that kind of thing how that is performing versus your expectations of maybe three or six months ago.
Hi Charles this is Chris Doyle.
I'm exceptionally pleased with the continue performance and honestly our performance of the team that we have working the Utica.
When I came on six months ago I had many of the same questions.
I think some of you guys have I've spend six months looking at the results of this team has executed upon really looking forward to sharing that with you guys next week at Analyst Day.
I can tell you everything is lined up.
As you've said we've had some challenges had some challenges late last year and we came back taking we were set in production records probably two or three a week as we continue up this aggressive production ramp.
As the press release indicated we average about 50 000 barrels a day equivalent net from that asset and we are significant higher than that today.
Just an update the next tranche the next bump up will come in the form of Kensington the third train in Kensington.
Now they're $100 million a day.
We are on track for June startup which is reflected in our forecast.
We tied in that third train a couple weeks ago; we are finishing sort of final adjustments.
Electrical and should be commissioned in couple weeks.
This is the team that continues to out execute just starting volume in that play and you'll see that in black and white next week and couldn't be proud of anything.
Thank you.
I'll be tuned in when we see you next week.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question is from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to check my math on differential first with a $1.08 in the first quarter in guidance does that basically mean second quarter guess will be a $1.85 to $1.90 for in third quarter and fourth quarter? Didn't calculate that out in front me Dave but was a $1.08 in the first quarter and $1.70 for the end of the year that's the math.
Fourth quarter should be radically be the highest Dave because you've got the MBC coming back in.
And then the on the NGL realizations and NGL growth.
You basically added 10 000 barrels to 15 000 barrels a day of NGL volumes to increase your guidance.
As I look at the differential increase for the NGL's and just kind of attribute the volume increase and the differential increase to the same out that would be like a $99 a barrel differential on the incremental NGL's is that just tied to those incremental NGL's being primarily ethane? A lot of those NGL's are ethane Dave you're right at that but I would also remind you that when you look at the NGL differential as it suggested here keep in mind that we increased our oil price by $5 and so if you look at the projected realized price for NGL's they're actually a little bit higher than they were previously.
So what we've really done as we've said NGL prices that we expect to receive our flat to a little bit higher and the delve set to Nymex oil is wider as we've continued to see that NGL pricing is challenged in a way that oil is more volatile.
So what we are really projecting there is less volatility in the NGL price this year than we've seen short-term in the oil price as we've gone from $90 to $95 barrel.
Okay and then Doug you talked about first quarter CapEx being down and 15% reduction completions can you give us your outlook for second quarter CapEx and 1% increase in completions as those pads come online? We'll share more of that detail with you next week Dave.
The key there's noting that the strength of the portfolio the capital efficiency; things that we are driving forward towards that were maintaining that CapEx were projected for the full year and very confident on production profile.
So we will get into more details there on the asset side.
Just take the full year minus first quarter and divide by three for second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter is that fair? Well the key to remind the comments that we shared about some of the timing of the first quarter completion activity.
It probably a rough approximation is okay but there will be some volatility around the quarter just based on the pad drilling and the activity.
Okay.
See you next week.
Our next question is from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Going back to the Utica.
Can you just talk about the trajectory of your production mix in terms of oil gases versus NGL's? Both based the various midstream be bottlenecking but also as you contemplate doing more or looking more to dry gas window versus the liquids rich window? Hi Brian this is Chris Doyle.
I think we'll probably get into that kind of detail next week.
What I'll say is that our trajectory has not changed.
You look at our total gross process in capacity.
We've laid out back in February.
We said we're going to ride that capacity all the way up through the end of the year.
We are definitely in line to do exactly that.
I'd say right now just rough approximation the components splits probably 10% oil 30% NGL and 60% gas plus or minus.
You mentioned the dry gas and we're excited about some of the test that we've seen we have some of our own dry gas test but honestly there's probably two or three generations of completions to go.
So we are out there we will be out there testing that dry gas window and excited about hundreds of thousands of acres we've got in it but when I also say it's not just about dry gas window.
We are testing every part of that play and just have a tremendous amount of excitement about what we are seeing and we'll share a lot more next week.
Great thank you and then shifting to the Haynesville you talked about production bottoming here starting to return a sequential growth in the third quarter.
How you're thinking about that as you look in the 59 annual basis.
I think you said flattish and in the past is that still the case.
Do you expect a more secular trend in growth? Right now we're trying.
Sorry this is Jason.
We are still kind of working on the 15 rig allocation is going to be we are looking at a steady kind of eight rigs probably again we're factoring in as a portfolio just MBC again.
First of all we've got great economics in there.
We had our first quarter post-appraisal but we just finished last week in those wells average about over 50% rate of returns so real excited about the economics and results that we are seeing from that program but again the Haynesville program is designed to optimize the cash flow at a corporate level.
So we are kind of avoid our 15 discussions right now and kind of touch on those maybe more at Analyst Day but for this year.
We are planning on eight rig program that will get us up above our MBC by the end of  post that by the end of the year.
Our next question is from David Tameron at Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> All my questions have already been asked but if we look at back at the Eagle Ford looks like that oil the percentage coming from oil went down in the quarter from 4Q to 1Q.
Was that infrastructure can you just talk about anything changing out there? The only thing I could point to again I hadn't looked at that actually from percentage going forward but then we did have some downtime issue that impacted oil more than the gas so that could be influencing.
We lost about 120 000 barrels just again gas and stuff just due to some processing problems and gathering problems.
So again I don't think about overall fluid composition out of Eagle Ford is going to change long-term it's a pretty steady profile.
So I just made -- have been kind of something that happened during the quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay so no change to what you're drilling or you're? No we're 75% liquids pretty much out of the program and 25% gas.
So nothing again there may be minor fluctuations here and there but I don't think it's anything major or long-term.
LLC</strong> Okay and then Nick or Doug whoever wants to take this? The natural gas side you know I think I asked you about this before but as far as hedging for 2015 you're not that hedged and just given the focus on debt repayment and in a little more conservative approach on financials why not go ahead and just lock some of that gas in rather than pick that bet that gas move higher can you guys just talk about that? Yes Dave it's a good question.
One which we continue to look at and what would be the hedging program to be very important and critical to protect our cash flows and we look at it very often and we will continue to look at it so I think that there is opportunity there and that the way look at it right now I think there is we've got a lot of strength in the pricing and as you're well aware.
We're focused on protecting our cash flows and improving our balance sheet their key elements and what you can expect that we'll continue to hedge and too opportunistic time and we think it's the best for the portfolio.
LLC</strong> All right.
Let me slip in more and hear this.
You guys have put this capital discipline slide in here cash flow versus the CapEx and you're finally I guess for the first time at least 5 years on that chart here above CapEx.
If we maintain a positive let's say we maintain current prices should we see that GAAP widen in 2015 and 2016.
Doug I'm sure will want to have something to say here too but Dave we held off on given any kind of guidance on what we're going to do for 2015 because we're going to continue to assess our opportunities there.
All things equal if prices stay high relative to how we have things planned yet that guidance that GAAP would widen but I'd just remind the strength of the portfolio and the places we have to invest capital at a very high rate of return when you think about that question.
And I think just to add there that everything we do we tied back to our strategy and that strategy is to provide top quartile growth metrics from a operating perspective and capital perspective and a financial perspective and so we are not looking for one quarter win or one year win we are looking for the long haul steady repeatable performance that's in the top quartile category.
We are making great strides in that way and as we look forward to 2015 and we'll be sharing some additional color by that next week.
We just  we have a lot of opportunity.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks for the color.
Good luck next week.
We'll see you out there.
Our next question is from Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Please go ahead.
I'm curious on just with obvious reason the commodity prices in what we've seen in just general.
Whether it's within individual basis or just across the entire portfolio are you seeing much of change in just the activity plans for the year or even as you look even further out? Well the portfolio that we have give us a lot of flexibility and as we look at our capital program and we plan going forward looking to capture the greatest margins.
We have a considerable amount of flexibility and being able to average in certain area pull rigs from another area and we will do that as we see necessary.
I don't expect that you're going to see major deviations in our program but because we have the strength like in Haynesville you could see say increase a rig there but it is not like you're going to see this ramp up to 15 rigs or something like that.
So we really are trying to take a very discipline approach to it but the strength and the prices the strength and realizations.
We will opportunistically look to capture that value but it will not be significant deviation from our planned programs.
I'm sure that's helpful and then maybe just on a high level I'm sure we will get into this more next week but from the asset sale perspective just non-core side it seems like you're just kind of keep peeling things off.
I mean do you have an idea at least on the high level how far along that process you're is there much left to do have you kind of gotten through that portion of that last year or so? You know there's still a fair amount to do there it will come in pieces it won't be a big wave necessarily like we've had in the past of as many kind of volume of deals but we do have a large portfolios we continue to note there's a number of things in the portfolio that others look at and feel they would [covet] more highly than we do and therefore put more capital into and therefore be worth more to them then would to us.
So things that we are not investing in that become non-core to us overtime.
We will either determine if there is ways to improve them and make them more competitive in our portfolio or we will look at divesting them so that's an active process that this company will be in perpetuity as given the breadth of the portfolio.
So just to add to what Nick said there I think that our target about that financial disciple in improving the balance sheet and the strength of our balance sheet is something that we're actively working and we will continue to work.
Our next question is from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust Financial Services.
Please go ahead.
Say just two questions first just on I noticed that obviously the CapEx for the acquisitions of unproved properties you know you've got that down now and I think it was $24 million or so for the last quarter.
your thoughts as are you continuing to add just some bolt on things to block up some acreage or Doug is it fair to say that especially in your Eagle Ford and Utica most of that now is pretty blocked up? You described it perfectly we will have some small incremental acquisition cost in there for bolt on type of stuff filling in acreage but it's not a significant part of our program and you won't see any major deviations from that? Okay I'm sure you'll probably get this next week definitely more detailed in the Utica but just questions on I think you said for the 47 wells as in release that the average was about 1 180 boe per day just went an on now on the for the wells that you're doing you know existing what does the completions look like I mean are you extending the laterals and so I guess two questions there just on that overall cost of these wells and then how you're seeing the laterals sort of developed? Hi Neal this is Chris as you and I discussed probably couple months ago our focus for this year is capital efficiency and what that means for us in Utica is extending those laterals out and actually optimizing our completions and so we are seeing quarter-over-quarter year-over-year increase in EURs and performance.
We are as you know not aggressive when it comes to the choke.
We think the long-term performance of these wells and it's interesting to see some of our competitors come out and now do the same thing.
We think long-term performance is not driven by the first month production it's driven from the first year two years production and how you bring these wells on.
As we've said we're exceptionally pleased with the performance.
We'll get into heck lot more detailed next week but for the discussion you and I had earlier this year is still on track and longer laterals and optimized completions and well cost we were talking was we could drive well cost into the sixes.
We are staying right around the low sevens but reallocating some of the efficiency gains that we are seeing some of the cost reductions that we are seeing into better wells.
Our next question is from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Doug I just wanted to see if you could maybe highlight maybe your opportunity set regarding Powder River Basin oil as well as the Niobrara haven't gotten an update from me guys on that in a while? We are going to give you good review in that within next week.
We are excited about what we see up there.
We think there is good opportunity.
I view it as a another strong asset this will be important in our future and for our oil growth strategy.
So we'll be sharing a little more detail with that view next week on that.
Okay fair enough.
Doug as you think about as we look at the big-cap pierced to-date and earning season.
We have been seeing really any of the large-caps putting incremental dollars in the gas.
So I just wanted to get your thoughts on what it will take for CHK obviously it had summer rigs in the Haynesville but to get more capital allocation towards dry gas.
Is there a gas price what are you looking towards to do that? It's not really driven by gas price Arun it's more focused on how we can drive the greatest value of our program and how can we continue to sustain that overtime.
So we have tremendous flexibility in our rig fleet and how we can move our rigs around I don't see as materially changing as I've commented on our previous question.
Materially changing our program as gas and the current gas price environment but keeping mind with four assets it can produce greater than 1 Bcf a day several of those can produce greater than 2 Bcf a day we have a tremendous value lever there that as proven in the past this company's ability to ramp production very quickly and take advantage of strong opportunity we can do that.
The key in my mind is that we are going to do at a prudent pace; we are going to do it at a value capture pace and not do anything to comprise the long-term growth profile of a company.
So that said you can see few rigs move around to capture value greater value and we will do that and just react in a more opportunistic way but we are certainly pleased with the gas prices and looking to capture greater value there.
Our next question is from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I'm trying to understand I guess I might struggle in asking this question but should we think about these cost goals per well and sort of initial stage of cost reduction that is heading towards best practices or is it sort of phase I of cutting the fat and best practices might involve putting more horsepower into completion there or stages etc to weigh your maximizing output.
I mean it doesn't seem at all like your stocks pricing output while you're reducing cost but trying to understand if I  as you  if this is the best practice completion you're looking for based in the basin in the current program? That's a great question and I appreciate you asking and I would answer it in a the way I would describe it as that issues that are in place are driven and how do we capture the greatest value and my mission is that few times in different presentations but there's a difference between cost management and cost leadership and what you're seeing take place in Chesapeake's program is somewhat both.
We are managing cost in my mind the differentiation between the two is managing cost is driving the things out of our program out of our expenditures that we know the efficiency gains that we know exist cost leadership is how we continue to deliver the same results in driving further value and cost reductions into our program.
The teams have done a fantastic job we made significant progress.
I think we still have a long way to go the excitement in our teams and on campus here is very strong.
The asset reviews the opportunities for further synergies further cost reductions are just are fantastic so I think we've got lot more opportunity on the cost leadership side and the focus that we have there is great.
And so you'll continue to see improvements on the cost but as Chris was highlighting a little bit there we also are very mindful how do we capture the greatest value.
So as we look for ways to reduce our cost and to be more efficient in some cases that maybe adding additional frac stages to give greater recovery or to optimize on a rate that optimize a program.
So the key there is drive the cost out cost leadership but also I would capture the greatest value.
Okay thanks and I'll probably more about that next week as well.
Along the same lines you're talking about optionality in the portfolios wondering if you had a limited dollars if you can put in context what more you'd rather be doing and if you given the competitive hiring environment out there.
Are you currently staffed to pursue these options? We  but with respect to the staffing question we are.
And we've got a great group of talented employees that are doing fantastic job in our strategy.
As we look to grow the program it's all really focused on where -- how can we drive the most competitive metrics for the company and the greatest profitability for the company and we're just ever mindful it's not one metric it's several metrics.
Its several things that we need to be competitive and driving towards top quartile performance.
So as we look at that we are not going to sacrifice value and we will staff accordingly and we will maintain the discipline in our programs that we'll perform not only this year but we will perform in the subsequent year.
So it's a little hard to answer that question and if we had  if we allocated some additional capital or we have some additional money to spend we are building the programs.
Where we know when you capture the next value opportunity for our shareholders.
Your next question comes from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Really quickly looking at your full year CapEx budget and then reflecting back on Q1 Doug you mentioned $850 million in the release and on the call but that obviously had some nuanced adjustments to it was that $850 million factored into the budget.
In other words were you anticipating these accounting adjustments divestitures that sort of balanced it out to $850 million? In general yes keeping mind that is we had some weather related issue we deferred some of the completion activity to the second quarter Dave there is some variances across all of the different areas there but in general yes it's all accounted for.
Okay and should we expect similar things going forward I mean DNC budget? Yes absolutely.
The recognition of the capital efficiency is also very very significant and how we continue to capture cost savings on our accountable program and that's a huge driver for us.
Dave just though when you say significant things I just want to be clear we would not expect those types of adjustments to be recurred.
Okay that's exactly what I was trying to understand.
So then switching over back operationally real quick on the Haynesville well cost have got down to $7 million as you highlight in your presentation you highlighted that 50% rate of returns has there been any incremental productivity of wells or is that $7 million just the benefit of going back to existing pads any kind of color you can give us on how those have been driven down so aggressively versus the rest of the industry? Well this is Jason.
We've done a little bit of everything there; we've been really playing with different completion techniques to get our cost down.
So it's been over reduction and sand or anything like that that we would accomplish is reducing chemicals that we use just testing some slick water fracs etc so those are really a lot of the savings is driven by the completion side.
The drillings doing a phenomenal job as well.
So we've seen almost $2 million come off those cost in a year we are very excited about that program going forward.
As far as productivity again we clock the performance of these wells on these test to see if there's been any negative impact so far we haven't see anything so time will tell for that but we are really encouraged by what we've seen so far we do follow these back on our restricted rate choke just like they do in the Utica.
So you won't see big IP performance changes in those wells because we restrict well on restricted rate every well that we bring on so they're performing exactly [indiscernible] expect from those wells.
We monitor pressure and rate to make sure that we are not seeing performance degradations but again it's just been a great program great turnaround for us in a short amount of time so really excited about the Haynesville program overall and just putting value to the company over as a whole.
Great I appreciate that one last one and maybe this is going to be held off to the Analyst Day but when you look at what you're doing you're driving down the cost dramatically and you've given us some examples that can you give us the examples that correspond with also increasing recoveries while those cost have come down? Yes we'll re-point to the Analyst Day on that Dave.
Your next question is from Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong> Just a quick question from me in regards to your inventory across a number of basins could you give us a little bit of color as to how you think about working that down overtime in particular just trying to get a better sense of how we should think about finding your Marcellus growth trajectory over the year.
And then just a second quick follow-up question in regards to service cost trends just curious if you can provide some color on how you're seeing the service market evolved as we've seen some uptick in activity from the industry? I'll comment real quick Matt and then Chris may want to throw some additional comments in as we talk about few of the areas the inventory has come down significantly and compared to previous years we've made huge progress on that keeping mind that as we made this big shift this efficiency shift to the pad drilling that you'll have some inventory build associated with the timing of the wells coming online just by virtue of drilling four or six wells on a pad.
The one area that we still have some inventories in the Utica and we will be working that down over the years as well but we anticipate that throughout 2014 that we will be in a steady state or a state type of inventory based on the capital program and the timing of the pad drilling and bringing the wells online and then Chris do you want to add any comments up for one? Yes Matt the question of balance for Marcellus growth and how we should we think about that through the end of the year I'll add some color there.
I'll say what we're forecasting is not requiring any growth out of that asset honestly what we have is a tremendous position in one of the greatest dry gas basins known and our wells continue to outperform our expectations and industry's expectation and so what we are focused on is capital efficiency and we've got a lot of optionality and we'll share that with you next week where we could ramp up and potentially grow the asset but we are not we don't need that growth to grow the company and we are fantastic position and lock the flexibility when it comes our expectations for Marcellus.
On the service comp side Matt this is comment real quick on that John Reinhart and his team are focused on supply changes in capturing part of our savings on our put forward basis have been heavily driven by focused on supply chain capturing the greater [average] purchasing power of the company and so in general there is some sort of price pressure but we are addressing that through various energies and greater cost management through our supply chain and John you want to comment on that? Yes I think we've been really pleased with the supply chain group.
This is an organization started up in Q4 and just in a very short period of time has really driven a lot of value throughout the organization and as Doug said we are very early on in our capital improvements but this is certainly been a big part of the improvements we've seen year-to-date and look forward to further success throughout the year.
Our next question comes from Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
And thanks for taking my question just curios some accounting adjustments that were made and there was a comment in the release about capital interest has gone down as the unevaluated pool has been reduced how should we think about the management of that? we don't have the detailed balance sheet in the release but how's that come down and meaningfully recently or is there more to come and how should we think about that in the context of your DD&amp;A guidance has come down but how will that be accounted for going forward a lot of moving questions maybe I'll follow-up offline but just curios on the high level what's driving some of these changes and how should we think about as role through? Sure Joe.
We'll file our 10-Q later today so you can follow-up or those of you have any further detail after that but just to comment at a high level as we decreased our leasehold spending and we continue to evaluate properties to the drilling program and other evaluations that we perform from time-to-time you'll see unevaluated pool decrease just by nature of our activity level.
So as a result of that you'll just see cash.
Here you'll see interest expense be recognized in the income statement more than it was in the cash flow statement in the past.
I'll remind you though that when you think about modeling this company from evaluation standpoint that we did decrease our cash interest expense on analyzed basis by $115 million through our recent refinancing.
So what you're seeing there is a geography change from the cash flow statement to the income statement and certainly is important to modeling EPS correctly but overall the trends on interest expense are decreasing.
Okay I guess I'll just follow-up afterwards once we've chance to take a closer look.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Okay we're going to cease taking calls now.
We have over our time just a little bit just for a highlight if you have any questions that weren't answered today in the call and please follow-up with Gary Clark he'll be happy to help.
With that and then also in addition we are really excited about the Analyst Day next week and continue to share further detail in Chesapeake growth program as we go forward and additional asset detail.
So we look forward to seeing you next week thank you operator.
We appreciate everyone's time.
And that does concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day.
And welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Gary Clark.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Doug.
Good morning.
And thank you all for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2014 second quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the updated investor presentation that we posted to our website this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which consist of statements that cannot to be confirmed by reference to existing information including statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and on Pages 86 of our August 6 2014 10-Q and in the company's other filings -- SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
I would next like to introduce the members of management who are on the call with me today Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Senior Vice President of Operations Northern Division; and Jason Pigott our Senior Vice President of Operations Southern Division.
We will next turn to prepared commentary from Doug and Nick and then we will move to Q&amp;A.
Doug? Thank you Gary and good morning.
As Gary noted I hope you have got an opportunity to review our 2014 second quarter results they were issued earlier this morning.
Chesapeake had another strong quarter of production growth and operating performance.
We continue to make foundational progress on our strategies of financial discipline and profitable and efficient growth from our high-quality assets.
I am very pleased with our continued improvements in operating efficiencies measured by cycle time improvements capital spending reductions and cash cost leadership.
Production for the second quarter averaged 695 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This represents an increase of 30% year-over-year after adjusting for asset sales.
Our crude oil production was up 12% NGL production was up 72% and natural gas production was up 7% all adjusted for asset sales.
Once again we delivered a strong production growth while employing a very efficient capital expenditure program it was nearly 3% less than the year ago quarter.
I am pleased to highlighted that we are increasing the midpoint of our 2014 production growth outlook by 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or about 1.5%.
The production increase is a result of our focus on base production 35% increase in planned well connections during the second half of the year as well as anticipated transaction timing of some of our previously announced A&amp;D activity.
Looking ahead based on current performance and anticipated completion of new infrastructure we are confident that our year end 2014 daily production exit rate will exceed 730 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
Turning to capital expenditures total spending during the second quarter was $1.3 billion before capitalized interest of which approximately $1.1 billion was for drilling and completion activities approximately $50 million was for leasehold acquisition and approximately $130 million was for other capital expenditures.
Importantly we spent only 42% of our projected 2014 capital budget during the first half of the year and as I noted before we expect a significant increase in well connections during the second half of 2014.
Consequently we're on track to stay well within our previously stated full year 2014 CapEx range of $5 billion to $5.4 billion before capitalized interest.
Id like to conclude with a few remarks about our two recently announced strategic transactions.
First the repurchase of all outstanding preferred shares from third-party holders of our Chesapeake Utica L.L.C.
subsidiary and second the acreage swap with RKI in the Powder River Basin.
The purchase of the Utica preferred shares is another important step in our strategy to simplify the company's balance sheet while reducing high cost leverage instruments.
Importantly we were able to fund the $1.26 billion repurchase price of these securities entirely through unrestricted cash on hand as of June 30th.
I am very excited about the Powder River Basin acquisition.
When this transaction closes it will effectively double our average working interest in the Powder River Basin to approximate 79% concentrating our acreage in the southern part of the play where we currently operate.
We see tremendous future stacked oil potential on this acreage in addition to our core Niobrara development.
This acquisition officially leverages our overhead in geologic expertise in the Powder River Basin and we expected to substantially increase our oil gross rate our margins and our oil mix as a percentage of total company production.
This transaction is an excellent example of the calculated strategic steps we're taking to reduce our leverage to near-term natural gas prices by deploying our capital into areas with higher margin oil.
This concludes my prepared remarks and I'll now turn it over to Nick.
Thanks Doug and good morning.
We are very proud of our operational and financial performance year-to-date as well as the significant progress we have made towards our strategic objective of leverage reduction and balance sheet simplification.
As a reminder we are reducing debt and commitments by over $6 billion in two years and recently further simplified our capital structure with the repurchase of the CHK Utica preferred.
During the second quarter the rating agencies raise our credit rating two notches such that we are now positioned just below investment grade.
Turning to second quarter results production growth was strong up 4% sequentially on an absolute basis versus the first quarter while production expenses plus G&amp;A expenses were down sequentially coming in at 589 per Boe in Q2 compared to 603 per Boe in Q1.
Chesapeake reported adjusted earnings of $0.36 per share in the second quarter with adjusted EBITDA of approximately $1.3 billion.
The primary driver of our sequential decreases in quarterly earnings and EBITDA with lower commodity price realizations specifically for natural gas which we previously discussed in our press release dated July 29th.
Id like to take a few minutes to talk about our natural gas price realizations during the quarter and our expected -- expectations for the remainder of the year.
I will also discuss some of the changes to our 2014 outlook.
As previously announced on a company-wide basis our natural gas price differential increased to a $1.91 per Mcf during the second quarter which was up from a $1.08 per Mcf in the first quarter.
Chesapeakes differentials consisted two key components basis which is the discount to Henry Hub pricing that reflects various physical sales points at which Chesapeake sales its gas and non-basis which includes gathering transportation processing and other marketing costs.
I will note that many of our peers report the non-basis component as a separate expense line item on their income statement whereas Chesapeake reports non-basis as a deduct to his realized pricing.
This can make it more difficult to direct comparisons with our peers.
During the second quarter Chesapeake non-basis gas price differential was $1.30 per Mcf a moderate increase from our first quarter non-basis differential of $1.19 per Mcf due to the mix shift towards some higher cost production areas.
The basis component of our differential was the key delta between the two quarters and primarily reflects a large seasonal demand and pricing swing from a very cold winter to a very mild spring in early summer.
For example in the first quarter Chesapeake corporate basis differential was a positive $0.11 per Mcf to Henry Hub.
In the second quarter basis widened to a negative $0.61 per Mcf.
As noted in our press release last week the Marcellus region where there is an oversupply of gas and insufficient demand in the non-winter months accounted for the majority of the basis widened during the second quarter.
The basis differentials in the Marcellus have generally deteriorated during the month of July.
Looking ahead we expect them to remain weak for the remainder of the third quarter before improving in the fourth quarter a seasonal weather demand should begin to take hold.
As a result we have increased our company-wide natural gas price differential outlook to $2.10 per Mcf implied midpoint for the second half of 2014 of which an estimated $0.20 per Mcf can be attributed to our expected minimum volume commitment short-fall payment during the fourth quarter which is consistent with our previous guidance on this expected expense.
When average with first half actuals this increase yields our new full year 2014 gas differential outlook of $1.75 to $1.85 per Mcf which is up $0.15 per Mcf from our outlook.
Looking forward to 2015 we expect basis particularly in the Northeast to remain challenged but we expect our non-basis which again is primarily gathering transportation and processing costs to improve as our less mature plays see increased gas production particularly the Eagle Ford and Utica.
Please also note that we're increasing our projected 2014 full year oil price differential range by $1.75 per barrel which reflects the compression in the LLS/WTI spread along with lower realized pricing for our Utica and Southern Marcellus condensate.
We're currently working on stabilization in alternate customer solutions for our Utica and Southern Marcellus condensate which may create an opportunity to improve our differentials overtime.
For NGLs we are increasing our projected 2014 price differential to Nymex by $4.50 per barrel which primarily reflects the weaker overall NGL prices we experienced during the second quarter driven by weakness in ethane prices and lower seasonal demand for propane and butane.
Overall ethane also represented a higher percentage of our NGL barrel in certain key region like the Utica and Southern Marcellus which pressured our average price realization per barrel.
One final point in our outlook please note that we are no longer providing forward guidance for oil field service net margin given that the spinoff of this business into publicly traded entity Seventy Seven Energy became effective June 30th.
Id like to conclude by addressing our funding plans for the RKI acreage swap and the Utica preferred share repurchase that we announced last week.
The cost to fund these transactions totaled $1.7 billion.
As of June 30th we had approximate $1.46 billion of unrestricted cash on hand and pro forma for expected non-core asset sales proceeds of approximately $700 million during the second half of 2014.
Our cash balance is expected to exceed $450 million after funding the RKI acreage swap and the Chesapeake Utica preferred share repurchase.
I am very pleased that we have the ability using our existing capital resources to pursue this type of accretive high value transaction that will materially improve our net asset value.
Please see a reconciliation of our pro forma cash movements on slide six of the presentation we published on chk.com this morning in conjunction with earnings release.
That concludes my remarks and now Ill turn it back over to Doug before we begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Nick.
I just like to reiterate the Chesapeake is standing strong on four pillars today.
We are growing production at a double-digit annual rate we are demonstrating excellent capital efficiency and cost leadership we are reducing our financial complexity and we are laser focused on creating shareholder value through a variety of strategic initiatives.
Chesapeake is a growth company.
We have the strategy high quality assets and talented employees to deliver growth quarter-after-quarter.
We are still targeting non-core divestures in 2014 and also evaluating other value creation opportunities within our portfolio.
We will continue to look for these value creation opportunities such as the Powder River Basin acquisition where we can focus our expertise and talent on further growth for our shareholders.
Well now open the call up for questions.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning Doug.
Good morning Dave.
Let me jump in the detail.
Utica with Kensington plant coming on I mean you have 200 -- I think the number you put in press release 210 wells that are waiting on completion.
Does that -- can you just talk about the infrastructure out there and obviously the Kensington plant helps but how quickly can you get down that backlog how should we think about that over the next six months? Yeah.
Sure Dave.
Chris Doyle will have some additional comments on it.
But as we look towards the year end we expect that inventory to continue to reduce as we build into the capacity we have available.
Chris do you want to provided any color? Yeah.
Sure.
Hey Dave this is Chris Doyle.
As you mentioned Kensington 3 did come online as scheduled actually a couple weeks ahead.
It allowed us to ramp beginning at July and into this month.
We've got one additional as we laid out actually a couple of additional projects coming online in the fourth quarter.
Expansion of the Cardinal system with compression and then additional processing capacity at UEO Haynesville and that will get us to that target about 100 000 net barrels of production by the end of the year as we laid out at Analyst Day.
As you correctly said our beginning inventory this year is about 200 wells.
By the end we see that around 150 to 160.
The additional capacity will obviously allow us to bring those wells on throughout the remainder of this year.
And Ill also point out we probably have about 50 million a day of gas behind shale currently its down a little bit from what we have talked about previously and Kensington 3 big part of giving that gas online.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one more before I let somebody else jump on.
If I just think about the Utica I know you guys covered this at Analyst Day? But you are drilling a couple tests I guess you are drilling at Wetzel County you're drilling the drygas test and then you're messing around with the oil window? Doug can you remind me like what's your snapshot or whoever or Chris can you remind me of where you think this play heads over the next six months I mean obviously the drygas is attractive but can you just give me your snapshot? Let me start with oil test the oil window.
We brought online the well we mentioned it at Analyst Day is called Parker well.
Brought it online this quarter last quarter I should say its been on production for a couple of months.
We continue to be encouraged with what we are seeing.
Its a highest IP that we have seen to-date.
We saw an area that we were expecting about zero or very marginal return on investments is now in mid-20s and pushing higher plan is we will continue to delineate that area which I characterize be about 80 000 or 100 000 net acres to Chesapeake continued to delineate that over the next six months with probably two to four wells some of those in moderate risk areas and continues to push out into what we currently characterize as higher risk as we continue to derisk this part of the play.
The idea that we can take a forgotten part of the Utica and drive value for this company is really exciting for me.
Ill reiterate what I said at the Analyst Day the only company that can do that has to have cost leadership has to demonstrate cost leadership and I stand behind what I think is the strongest operations team in the basin really excited about what we are seeing there.
And generally that would be a little bit slower build just because of the infrastructure but continue to like what we see.
On the drygas Utica test that's the messenger well in Wetzel County West Virginia.
It will be completed later this month.
Startup 6 -foot lateral obviously we push the timing of that well back a couple weeks to give us additional capacity to flow the higher rates than we initially planned.
And the reason for that what we saw in the pilot hole what we saw in the logs and what we experienced during drilling.
We are very excited to get this well online and continued to be very encouraged that the drygas play does not stop at the river.
Okay.
And just to clarify you mentioned the oil test you said that the well you're referencing when you said 20% rates of return and headed higher? Yes.
Okay.
All right.
And there is as weve done and continue to do throughout the company is we are going to push laterals longer we are going to optimize completions and drive returns higher.
Okay.
Sounds good.
Thanks.
Thanks David.
And our nest question is from Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hi Mike.
Good morning.
Good morning Mike.
Got two questions for you one on the PRB and one on Southwest Marcellus.
In the PRB just hoping you could give a little bit more color on the stack pay potential here? And really if you could define the opportunity set there and compare the potential IRR prospects there versus the 40% you've laid out for the Niobrara to-date? Mike this is -- thanks for question.
This transactions up there really to me is an example of the whole company of all our assets of the exciting things going on and the of return opportunities where we are just driving additional value seeing lower cycle times seeing reductions in our cost and better return for our shareholders.
Its a really really exciting incremental opportunities for us and I am going to ask Chris to just kind of run through a little bit more of that detail for you.
Yeah.
Mike as you know we have been very open about how excited we have been about the Powder River Basin assets that we have especially on the sub-surface but honestly we had work to do.
The first issue that we had to address was one of materiality transitions we laid out last week doubles our exposure to what Doug characterize is multiple stack pays what Ill tell you is its the single largest concentration of stack pay potentials that we see in the basin.
What we saw is little over a billion barrels of potentially recovery resource is now over 2 and thats really being driven by a number things.
One is the continued successful delineation of Sussex.
As we laid out in those materials we have a play that stretches about 20 miles north to south that we fully delineated north to south with the most recent Sussex test.
We are going back to work drilling longer laterals currently drilling a 9 000-foot lateral in the Sussex and driving returns there.
That Sussex 1 well is at Hoss the 9 000-foot lateral 90 000-foot lateral is adjacent to it.
So we are really excited about the Sussex.
We continue to be excited about the Parkman and what Ill point you to is what we look at what John Kapchinske and his team is pushing towards the end of the year for additional Parkman test Teapot test and Shannon test.
I think the true story here though is excited as we get on the Upper Cretaceous and some of the other potential out there is what is happen with the Niobrara.
And course of a year a teams saw their rig count drop from 10 rigs to three had essentially rethink absolutely everything they were doing and all theyve done in the first half is out execute any expectation I had them.
They have delivered what was a 40 days spudder rig release well now in the Niobrara is 26 and added a 1000-foot lateral link.
Thats a 35% reduction in cycle time and a 17% increases in lateral link.
And thats allowed us as a team to re-establish this asset is a really important part of our portfolio going forward.
I couldnt be more excited about what theyve done and excited to see what they will do in the next six months.
Great.
Thanks Chris.
And maybe Ill ask you as well just over to the Southwest Marcellus.
Could you refresh me on the takeaway capacity there to get gas out of that portion of the basin and then what the prices what do you expect in terms of realization up there and then really for you Doug just kind of being blunt here why or why not spin this asset out eventually? Yeah.
We talk about our takeaway in that area thats one thing that we look at is is not only just our gas takeaway but also our ATEX commitment and ethane takeaway.
We feel good of what we have established and our ability to execute on that asset as we continue to expand capacity.
When we think about spinning this asset out and talk about it internally what we see is is an asset that has really strong return but honestly does not quite yet compete within our portfolio which is more testament to shrink the remainder of our portfolio than it is the underlying assets.
Its an asset that we look at every quarter and continually outperforms our expectations both in terms of reserve and well delivery and just a phenomenal asset and we -- I get excited when thinking about putting that asset out on its own being able to fund its own growth especially capacity increases what it could do and putting that team in competition with some of the other players in the area.
All right.
Thanks guys.
And our next question is from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy.
Good morning.
Just a quick follow-up on a Powder River.
Youll talked about well cost of $8.9 million at the Analyst Day and roughly 30% 40% rates of return and had these improvements? With the longer laterals and the shorter days what do you see those returns more specifically? So we laid our in the materials last week and I think again today is very clearly where we see our 2014 program averaging about 5 800-foot lateral going into the year thats a $8.9 million.
So cycle time improvements get those returns back up over 20% extending our lateral link where we see in the second half of this year about 6 800-foot laterals will increase capital little bit but drive returns over 30% and then as weve done in multiple plays reinvesting those capital savings into enhanced completions will drive our returns to 40% we see we get there fairly quickly.
Okay.
And then just on the overall corporate cash flow guidance with the higher differential you brought that cash flow for 14 down and Nick you talked about 15? As you think about the CapEx of $5 to $5.4 that includes the acquisitions just wanted to be clear on that? No.
$5 to $5.4 would not include the amount Okay.
 we plan to use to complete the RKI exchange? Okay.
And so Nor is it offset by asset sales either Dave.
Right.
But so on apples-to-apples basis you bought about 4 500 barrels a day and you are now growing 5 500 barrels equivalent a day more than what you expected previously is that a fair number? Yeah.
Just the 4 500 barrels a day I guess its only for the last couple of months.
Yeah.
Just for the last couple of months of the year its not even for the full second half.
And then as go through cash flow and CapEx balance looking at the next three-year plan? How does that flow given what you just talk about from a differential headwind? Well we go through a pretty competitive capital allocation process every year and we are in the middle of that right now for 2015 looking at where the best investments can be made to maximize return for shareholders.
And so we take into account all those things and as Chris noted in his Analyst Day presentation an asset like the Marcellus North which has the ability to produce incredible returns might stay flat for a period of time and be a cash flow -- free cash flow generator given the pricing dynamics we expect we will face coming into next year.
Now that being said we look at opportunities all the time to try and improve those things and each team feels the pressure of wanting to have more capital and fights to find ways to increase the expected return.
So it's a constantly evolving analysis as we think about that.
But we feel very confident in our ability to continue to invest at this level and continue to achieve these growth rates.
One of the things that Doug about at the beginning just before Q&amp;A are the things on which this company is focused and a pricing differentials in the short-term around a cool summer and waiting some long-haul takeaway in the northeast dont impact the way we think about those targets and our ability to achieve them.
I think just adding to that the idea of the competitive nature of capital allocation.
You think about it a year ago we probably couldnt run away from out of there fast enough.
These are wells that we were excited about but generally werent making money and now when we look ahead to next year we probably cant put enough capital there.
Yeah.
So this is a process that drives competition among teams is very very healthy for the company and for our shareholders.
I think that the oil acquisition makes a lot of sense.
How many more of those type of in that size acquisitions do you think you can do as you look at the next couple of years? Well well be very focused on it David.
As I noted in the prepared comments we are presently evaluating a number of strategic initiatives some of which weve discussed and some were working on that are in early stages.
And the key for us going forward is that we execute on this financial discipline and look for differential ways to add value to our shareholders.
So I think its important to note that why were not providing any color on it.
So any specifics of any other transaction today that the company is looking at other opportunities and well continue to look for other opportunities where we can enhance those returns and get away from some of those high differentials volatility that we see around gas market and continue to grow the company.
And Dave Ill just jump back in here and at the risk of restating the obvious the financial position the company finds itself in today where we can effectively struck a chat for that acquisition gets us pretty excited about looking at other opportunities.
We certainly are in a place now where we can think about our portfolio in the right way.
There is other things in our portfolio that need to be managed.
And we talked about some of those things.
We havent highlighted all of them.
But there's lot of portfolio optimization to do and in doing that it left us very flexible to go out and seek new opportunities.
So we feel really good about where we stand in our ability to go out and execute on opportunities that that we seek or they present themselves to us.
Yes increase nets anywhere you can guys.
Thats a good deal.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Our next question is from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Good morning guys.
Doug my first question really just to stay on our differentials a little bit Im just wondering if you and Nick can I guess either operationally or financially are you trying to manage this around obviously the current weak NGL and natural gas prices in near term maybe prove to have some new rig locations or if Nick is looking at hedges or is it just something you think kind of temporary we just have the ebb and flow of the seasons kind of return as we normally do in the winter? Sure.
Great question Neal.
I think its really good to highlight based on your question the fact that we built considerable flexibility into our program reacting to current market conditions and providing competitive metrics versus our peers is what our focus is all about.
And as weve said a number of times how we highlight or how we grow value for our shareholders based on that flexibility we built into our capital programs.
So when you look at the present dynamic thats taken place we anticipate that we'll see an improved realizations as we go into the winter.
But the key for us really Neal is were not running the company based on any particular forecast on gas or oil prices.
Were going to run this company on good prudent operations and sound financial discipline and that nuts and bolts approach with the quality of our assets and the talent of our employees will pay off large shareholders as we pursue this low-cost leadership and greater capital efficiency.
So yes we will look at the opportunities for hedging to protect our cash flows not on speculative basis but on capital preservation or capital -- ensure our capital program can be executed upon to provide that growth in competitive metrics.
But we have to be competitive regardless of what the gas prices are and thats exactly what were going to do.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then building on that -- and just looking obviously at your slide its pretty clear that you guys have some of the dominant acreage positions by looking at Eagle Ford and around some of the Utica.
So my question around this is are you continuing to sort of do some trades blocking this up you certainly have cut obviously just what you're spending in leases overall.
But is there still a bunch of this going on or how do you kind of look at that on the acreage side? I think there's significant opportunities for coring up in our high quality assets in the areas that we see future growth from.
And when I say coring up that may be increasing our net interest.
It might be bolt-on acquisitions.
It might be infill acreage in the areas that we see to have the greatest potential and opportunities.
So I think you can expect to see a continued focus on that for the company.
Okay.
And then just last one just looking at dialing into the Utica probably a question for Chris just looking at slides 20 and 21.
I know as you all mentioned on -- at the Analyst Day talking about being the most efficient and you guys do a good job of showing kind of what youre spending per lateral foot.
But maybe just walk me through on slide 20 I know you have brought out now on this slide a number of your -- and some of your newer dry gas wells.
And obviously the headlines we hear are from some of the peers a little bit further south some of these big number.
So Chris I guess what Im looking at just maybe how youre looking at that how much lower I know like some of those in the south I think are costing $10 million or $12 million per well.
So Im just trying to get a sense of how much yours are costing if theyre obviously coming a little bit less.
How much less is the cost behind those? Thats a good question Neal.
I wouldn't say that we have a large enough sample set when we look at our position to dry gas Utica in West Virginia to give you an affirmative answer.
All I can tell you is that while we have established ourselves as cost leaders in the rest of Utica play Im very confident that well continue to do that in West Virginia.
Obviously these wells are going to be more expensive as they are a little bit deeper.
Some may improve requiring an additional casing string and thats fine.
But Ill put my chips behind again what I think is a really really strong operation state.
We try to highlight on slide 20 some of those $30 million a day IP.
Its really just to get a sense of what were expecting as we cross the river in West Virginia.
And just to reiterate what I mentioned earlier in the call were very excited about what we saw in the Wetzel County messenger well and really excited to get that online and excited to to further delineate as we approach the end of the year up into the Panhandle and really unlock significant value for our shareholders with dry gas test in West Virginia.
Chris are you drilling -- and then lastly are you drilling anything even further south than Wetzel anytime soon? I have to check get back with you on that Neal.
I dont believe so.
When we look at ultimately we will but when we look at where were focusing its probably Wetzel Count north into the Panhandle just where the concentration of our acreage is.
But we will definitely continue to push not only a little bit south but also further east.
Makes a lot of sense.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning to everyone.
I could ask a question about the northern Marcellus.
You guys have a slide in your presentation you put out today.
Talks about the new completion sign and it looks like its pretty attractive nonexistent decline.
I wonder if you could talk about what you are doing differently and maybe where you're doing that.
And if thats perhaps a function of where geographically it is like I know that Wyoming County is relatively untested but highly prospective and just give us a sense of how applicable across the whole position this kind of completion might be? Charles this is Chris Doyle.
Its very applicable across the entire position not just in Marcellus but we see it across the entire north and southern division of entire company.
What were doing here is optimizing value equation.
What that means to the northern Marcellus and the slide that you are pointing to is additional sand being comped stage facing being contracted pumping more efficient completion design.
And it cost us about an initial $1 million but results in over a Bcf of incremental production as this example alludes to in the first year.
The key point of this slide is that these two wells are in the same exact area.
This is not a difference of being in the core area versus a non-core area.
These are two core wells in the same exact area.
The only difference is really the completion.
And so we get really excited as I'm sure you would be seeing the results here.
Well continue to push more and more sand tighter spacing not only here but in other assets as well.
In the Northern Marcellus what that has allowed us to do is keep production flat and were running four rigs right now.
And I would say going into the year we would've projected probably running about six or seven but the completion optimization of the capital efficiency gains that weve seen in the first half of the year it gives clarity to reduce rig count there.
And so were excited about that.
Got it Chris.
Thats good detail.
And just to clarify that so these wells are both producing against the same kind of gathering pressure with the same sort of compression and all that other stuff? Same system same area.
Got it thank you.
And then transition over to be Powder River Basin.
I know going back 18 or 18-plus months ago one of the big constraints was takeaway.
I guess its processing but also just oil takeaway.
And I know that you guys said that you got this you expect a gas processing plan to come on in Q4 thats going to give you guys a boost there.
But can you talk more generally about what other above-ground bottleneck you might be dealing with there whether its on the processing or permitting side? Sure.
Our biggest constraint right now is gas processing as you allude to.
And Buckinghorse coming on at the end of the year is going to open that up thats $120 million a day that we anticipate being on line at the end of the year.
I continue to be excited as we see that capacity expand.
We will build into that capacity and probably hit capacity at Buckinghorse in the first early second quarter of 2015 and then continue to grow into tallgrass capacity we currently have.
Thats our biggest surface production constraint.
You alluded to permitting and got a lot of questions about how quickly can you ramp up with permitting issues in Wyoming.
I can tell you this company and his team has a lot of history dealing with a longer protracted permitting timing and its up there we work into our plans.
And so you won't see us go to 30 rigs next month.
What youll see is a nice steady build towards the end of the year and into 2015 as we fill up capacity and get that permit machine go on.
So those are -- you hit on I would say two above-ground pressure points that were attacking aggressively all over.
Great.
Thanks for the detail.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Good morning guys.
Up in the Utica or even Southwest Marcellus is there an ability to kind of try and get some of that gas out of the basin? I know some other operators are starting to look at pushing it to Midcon or Gulf Coast just your thoughts around that opportunity if there is any? Yes.
So we are looking at some of those opportunities.
Weve had a number of good conversations with the takeaway partners looking at building new project out of basin and those are all pretty active discussions.
So Ill kind of leave it at just saying that were looking at ways to further increase our takeaway in other parts of the country.
Okay.
And then just curious on the Utica as youre looking at kind of the reemergence of the different windows if you will.
Youve got eight rigs up there now.
How do you see that rig count as far as just within that.
Is that mostly just in the condensate or wet gas area and then anything in the dry gas or even oil would be incremental at least in the near term or maybe even in the 15? I think thats a fair way to look at it.
As we look at the pace of our drilling activity up there one thing thats just absolutely critical to their company as were not going to part capital on the ground and not get a cash on cash return as quick as possible.
So strategically as we look at our capital allocation with the areas where we can ramp up rigs and be flexible on our program and capture the greatest returns.
It is where were going to be focused versus parking capital on the ground and waiting for infrastructure in six months or a year or longer to allow us to sell our product.
So as we look at -- well be continuing to drill in the gas windows and doing some of our limited testing to prove up the other areas.
And as Nick noted looking for opportunities to secure addition takeaway as we see the economic support.
The only think I would add there this is Chris Doyle is we will be seven to nine rigs next year.
But in a fact what well be doing is adding more wells because of continued cycle time reductions.
Point two what they've been able to accomplish in the Utica but also at North this is an area that we had drilled going into this year 800 wells and year-to-date weve seen a 20% reduction in cycle times.
What that means is I can peel a rig back and effectively have not lost any delivery of this asset.
And so well think more in terms of well delivery than we will rigs.
And its one of the great value drivers for this company as we continue to see the cycle times coming down.
I appreciate you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt</strong> Good morning guys.
Hey Matt.
Pickering Holt</strong> Just two quick questions for me.
I wanted to ask first on the completion side particularly in the Eagle Ford I was wondering if you could provide maybe a little bit of color on kind of where you are in completion optimization and how you think about I guess industry moving towards bigger profit longer laterals and tighter stages and the opportunity set you guys see on your Eagle Ford assets.
This is Jason.
We are looking at that with all across the company and weve got a completions team that spun off as part of our transformation initiative.
Were looking at it.
Theyve got 50 initiatives as far as completions going on across the company.
Were very excited about it.
So all the things that you mentioned were in the process of testing right now.
Weve really seen some cost leadership from that team.
Theyve been able to drive costs down in every single asset that we operate with the Eagle Ford being no exception.
At our Analyst Day we highlighted $6.4 million.
Wells were our year-end target but theyre already achieving that today.
So were very excited of the progress were going to make.
Another big change for us as weve transition to some of these interventionalists completions.
These are sliding sleeves dissolvable plug systems that we've tested in the Haynesville successfully Were going to be moving those to the Eagle Ford.
Those systems are safer faster and cheaper for us.
Were very excited to tell you about the results in the Eagle Ford as we progress those systems moving forward.
Weve also tried similar to they have in the North.
We have been very successful tighter per cluster spacing test more sand.
Some of our cost savings have come from reducing the amount of gel and being able to get same profit concentrations away with water .So really expecting to make some big moves on our completion costs side and the Eagle Ford going forward.
Were also going to be testing some 330 foot spacing test out there.
Those will be going down in the third and fourth quarter.
That can hopefully optimize the ultimate recovery from our asset in the future spell so lots of great things going on in the Eagle Ford overall.
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
And I guess just specifically to the Eagle Ford we've seen recently particularly in an area where you guys are developing pretty significant increases in the amount of sand content in the well is that something you guys are testing at the moment? And is there any context you could just provide as to kind of where you are today on a profit per foot or profit per stage perspective and maybe where that could trend to? I do not have the pounds per foot with me right now but I guess -- its something that as you go to these increased density clusters were not diluting our sand over that interval.
So every -- by testing tighter intervals we by default pump more sand and more fluid into the well.
So were testing up to 20% to 50% increases in some of our sand out there.
Its really just looking at and maximizing the MPV of these test cost you more money so do you get incremental EUR from them.
Those are the things were looking at.
And they just take time to really see the impact in EUR.
But we have observed some of our offset operators are pumping more sand out there but weve got a system that works for us.
Were just looking to tweak in.
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
Last question for me just on the completion front you mentioned accelerating completions into the back half of 14 by 35% or wells on line.
Could you give us some context of where those will primarily be? Is that primarily in the Utica and the Eagle Ford or just any incremental color you could provide on those completion accelerations? Sure.
Matt thats principally the main areas.
Utica is a big component of it Eagle Ford as well.
But really across the whole portfolio our focus and drive towards capturing greater value its just consistent with all of our planning.
Already Id mentioned is the Powder where we strategically deferred some completion in the first half of the year because of weather and because of capacity constraints.
We are back at it right now and completing wells and accelerating completions in the second half of this year as we get ready for Buckinghorse at the end of this year.
Pickering Holt</strong> Thank you.
And our next question is from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
I apologize I was a little late jumping on the call Doug so maybe I missed a couple of these things.
My question is kind of on the portfolio simplification to kick us off here.
The asset sales that you've announced on the outlay I guess of the Utica preferred kind of balance I guess if you add it up.
And I'm just kind of wondering is that how we should think about this simplification effort going forward that's going to be self funding if you like? And what kind of -- where would you say we are in that process in terms of getting where you want the portfolio to be and I've got a follow-up please.
Sure.
Its a good question.
So weve covered a lot of ground in the past 18 months.
And as Nick noted weve had a significant number of asset sales or non-core divestitures.
And as we look forward into the remainder of 2014 I see a number of other opportunities.
It will be looking to execute upon and there will be some in 2015 as well.
And the key there is really that were going to continue to mold and shape and optimize this portfolio around what I consider to be some of the absolute highest quality assets in the United States.
And as we look for core-up opportunities or divesting of non-core affiliates or things that were not getting competitive returns on you could absolutely expect to see more of it.
And we've got other things that were presently are evaluating in looking at for 2014.
As part of that process Doug I know it's a long time ago since we talked about debt targets but are you comfortable with the balance sheet as of now or do you see any urgency in bringing that down? I'm not so much thinking about the credit issues and so on.
I'm thinking more just about the interest rate burden that you have relative to the rest of the operating cash flow generally.
So what's the priority for trying to bring the debt down? Yeah.
So Doug you know that Im a huge capital efficiency guy.
And you know that I'm a huge cash cost leadership guy.
And part of that whole cash situation with the balance sheet where we have obligations that consumer cash flow or consume cash.
We are focused on continuing to improve.
And when you look at the portfolio when you look at our product mix I'm not happy with where we are.
And were going to continue to make improvements into it.
As you noted its not specifically that we are targeting investment grade.
Investment grade is a byproduct of running our business right.
And so we expect to reach investment grade because were going to clean up the excessive debt that can be a burden on our capital program in higher price environment or low price environments.
But the financial stability of the company as Nick had noted this is -- we're in a position today of really a very good strength.
And it creates optionality for when we can either pay off debt payoff of other obligations and continue to mold and improve the portfolio to capture the greatest value we can from these high quality assets.
Appreciate the answer Doug.
My last one is hopefully a very quick one.
Over the course of the last year I guess and particularly the last six months we've seen a number of your competitors talk about signing long-term gas contracts or at least signing up for that.
The most recent one which was a little bit of a surprise was Southwestern in the Fayetteville.
They didn't disclose details but they did say they had signed a contract for LNG.
So where are you guys in that? And obviously how would it impact your Haynesville assuming the back end of the curve did come up in this one for that? And I will leave it there.
Thanks.
Yeah.
So thats a good question as well.
I think if I were a purchaser of LNG Id want to go to the company that had the best assets in the country and thats Chesapeake.
And so for long-term deliverability and capturing the greatest price opportunity for our gas we will continue to look at opportunities to secure LNG contracts at pricing that we would consider to be favorable.
And weve not signed anything yet but we have had a number of discussions.
And well continue to discuss with those purchasers that offtake capacity from the new liquefaction facilities being built on the Gulf Coast.
And there's a direct line of site to the Haynesville and part of the reason we went into the Haynesville is we believed -- went back to the Haynesville rather as we believe that huge value in that asset have been captured in applying the teams the way theyre reducing cost and adding value there as significant.
And there was a second part of that that we also believe that the competitiveness of the asset would be a fantastic source for LNG purchasers if we could be more competitive.
So were recognizing that and seeing outstanding result in the Haynesville.
Our team is doing a fantastic job and were in great position to move forward provided we capture the value from an LNG contract or any other sales contract that we might pursue.
Appreciate it Doug.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that concludes todays question-and-answer session.
At this time I will turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional remarks.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate everyones time.
Just to encourage if there is subsequent follow-up questions please contact Gary.
And what you are going to expect with the company like Chesapeake it will continue to drive towards greater value.
And just want to reiterate one more time the year-end exit growth rate of 730 000 barrels equivalent per day is a very realistic expectation for us.
Were really excited about our programs.
So thanks everyone.
This concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Q3 2014 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Sylvester.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Hopefully youve had a chance to review our press release and the updated investor presentation at that we posted to our Web site this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which consist of statements that cannot to be confirmed by reference to existing information including statements regarding beliefs goals expectations forecasts and projections of future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
So please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and in the Companys other SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
Now I would like to introduce the members of our management who are on the call with me today Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Senior Vice President of Operations for the Northern Division; and Jason Pigott our Senior Vice President of Operations for our Southern Division.
With Id like to now turn to teleconference over to Doug and Nick for some prepared comments.
And then well open up the floor for a Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Brad and good morning.
As Brad noted I hope everyone has had a chance to review our press release that we issued earlier this morning.
Id also like to extend a special welcome to Brad hes an outstanding addition to our leadership team.
Were happy to have Brad Sylvester with us.
Chesapeake had a truly outstanding third quarter.
Were gaining significant momentum in all of our operating areas while continuing to create more value at less capital investment.
Im very pleased with the progress that Chesapeake is making to become a more profitable and less complex company.
In mid 2013 the Board management and employees of Chesapeake set out to transform a Company and thats exactly what weve done.
Quarter-over-quarter for the last four quarters we have met or exceed our production targets met or reduced our capital expenditure budget and consecutively reduced our cash cost.
The financial and operational improvements weve achieved in the past year have positioned Chesapeake to be highly competitive even in a reduced commodity price environment.
We have significant flexibility today in our capital program and activity levels the strength and quality of our diverse unconventional portfolio combined with our strategies of financial discipline and profitable and efficient growth provide a compelling investment opportunity.
As youll note in the appendix of our slide deck differential value is being created in all of our assets through capital efficiency and cost leadership.
Weve generated double-digit quarter-over-quarter production growth in the Eagle Ford and Haynesville Powder River Basin and Utica assets.
Production in the third quarter averaged 726 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which represents an 11% increase compared to last year and 5% growth sequentially after adjusting for the asset sales weve accomplished.
This is noteworthy because weve been able to increase production with a capital investment program that is substantially lower year-to-date than the same period in 2013.
We expect our well inventory at the end of 2014 to be relatively flat to 2013 as a result of our efficiencies and shift to multi-well pads.
We are increasing the low-end of our 2014 annual production guidance by 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and we anticipate that our year-end production rate will be between 730 000 and 750 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day on an adjusted basis.
Please note that the timing of previously announced investments and planned expansion projects could impact the exit rate but the strength and efficiency of our portfolio was exciting.
Finally Id like to make a few comments about our recent announcement to sell our Southern Marcellus assets.
This transaction is transformational event for our company we expect to close in December subject to certain closing conditions including the receipt of third-party consensus in the waver participation right.
Upon closing the optionality that this strategic transaction provides Chesapeake is extremely valuable and we anticipate many opportunities to continue building shareholder value.
We plan to provide our 2015 capital and production outlook in early 2015.
As noted the quality of assets our talented employees the operating efficiencies achieved in our capital program and our financial strength provides significant flexibility and optionality for our program in this volatile market.
Were confident in our ability to be competitive regardless of the pricing environment.
In closing I couldnt be more happy with our results for the third quarter but importantly I also wanted you to know that were not done.
There is a deep and strong commitment here at Chesapeake to become a top cortile E&amp;P company and were progressing steadily towards that goal.
We believe that our core values our focus on Chesapeake being an industry leader in every aspect of the E&amp;P business and our commitment to creating shareholder value is more evident each and every day.
Our talented employees are attacking every part of our business to be more competitive and more profitable.
While 2013 was our year of transformation 2014 has been our foundational year driving capital operating and financial efficiencies while improving our competitiveness.
2015 will be a year of value and leadership as Ive noted in the past Chesapeake is just getting started.
So you can expect further improvements in our capital efficiency in 2015 and a continued focus on driving value and growth for our shareholders.
I conclude with comments.
So Im going to pass it now to Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer for some transitional and financial information.
Thank you Doug and good morning everyone.
As Doug mentioned our third quarter results were outstanding and the progress weve made over the past 12 months in transforming our company has been significant.
Our strategy to add greater shareholder value is working as evidenced by the decreased capital cost and increased performance in each of our operating divisions.
The simplification and improvement of our balance sheet and the resulting lower cost of capital.
Weve seen extremely positive momentum across the board.
As we look forward to what lies ahead in 2015 we couldnt be more excited about the future and believe that Chesapeake is in a unique position should differential results in the quarters and years ahead.
Specifically were very proud of our highly competitive position operationally and financially in the industry during this period of commodity price volatility.
We reported adjusted earnings of $0.38 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA of 1.24 billion in the third quarter of 2014.
As Doug noted we had strong sequential production growth during the quarter of 5% while growing 11% year-over-year adjusted for assets sales.
As a reminder we cut rigs throughout most of 2013 in an effort to balance our capital expenditures with our operating cash flows and to improve our capital efficiency.
We are continuing to see per well capital cost improvements in every play and have ramped rigs higher throughout 2014.
Were now seeing the production impact of those rig ramps materialize and were very pleased with the results.
We continue to exceed our production growth targets while coming in below our capital budget.
Some more production is being added per dollar of capital invested than ever before.
We also saw improvements in our cash cost per Boe both year-over-year and sequentially.
So our volume growth along with margins that are expanding are helping to offset the effect of lower commodity pricing.
To address our outlook on commodity prices for the rest of the year we increased our expected natural gas differentials by $0.05 due to the continuation of low regional prices we saw in October in the Northeast.
We want to remind everyone that differentials consist of two components basis which is typically a field price discount to Henry Hub pricing and non-basis items such as gathering transportation processing and marketing costs.
The increase in our basis outlook for fourth quarter is primarily related to the former in the Northeast part of the country reflecting the low field pricing in Pennsylvania.
The prices in our gas producers received for the Marcellus production have been particularly low over the past six months due to the abundant supply of gas volumes and lack of regional demand in the summer and fall.
However we do expect those local and regional prices to improve over the next four to five months with the onset of increased demand due to winter weather.
Looking forward to 2015 we expect basis particularly in the Northeast to remain challenged as we come out of the winter months and we will likely to reduce our activity in our Northern Marcellus play accordingly.
From a hedging perspective we have relatively significant position of Q1 2015 gas hedges at attractive prices averaging $4.51 per Mcf.
We also have had substantial amount of oil at just under $95 a barrel and well continue to look to add both positions should prices justify doing so.
Switching to our capital investment program our competitive capital investments for the third quarter were down 8% to 1.351 billion as compared to 1.461 billion in the same quarter a year ago.
We continue to drive greater capital efficiency in our E&amp;P business by delivering greater production at lower levels of capital investment and look for this to continue in the future.
Moving to the balance sheet we have made significant progress this year in simplifying our balance sheet and maintaining strong liquidity.
This reduction in complexity continued in the third quarter with the redemption of our CHK Utica preferred shares.
This transaction took one of our highest cost financing instruments out of our capital structure with over $6 billion in debt and other reductions to long-term commitments that we have closed or are in process of negotiating during the past two years we believe our balance sheet and liquidity position will service well in this current period of reduced commodity prices.
Further Id like to highlight that we will spend approximately $250 million less on interest expense and preferred dividends on an annualized basis pro forma for this balance sheet reductions.
Our focus on efficiency can be seen in all parts of the Company including here.
Chesapeake has never been stronger financially.
That concludes my comments so I will now turn the conference over to the operator for questions.
On the capital efficiency front you guys had a slide at your Analyst Day I think you really hit home where you detailed the number of wells or the percentage of wells that were PV-10 positive going back a couple of years and it looked quite frankly pretty ferocious versus where you are now and I was wondering if you have any sort of other marker maybe its on an internal rate of return front if you look at each one of your plays to really assess where you are today with drilling cost coming down cycle times decreasing productivity increasing and IRRs to compare where you are at today versus where you have been in the past kind of a inverse you did at the Analyst Day?  Sure Mike.
Thanks for the question.
Yes we absolutely have that type of post appraisal and are incorporating the information based on the results that we obtained from our investment activities into our future capital program.
We in addition to what you described as evaluating the PV-10 of the investment program we also have a significant amount of scrutiny on all the cycle time improvements that we have been able to accomplish in each of the assets looking at the improving IRRs looking at the cost just all of the metrics in a look back fashion and incorporating that as we go forward thats particularly what gives us confidence and strengthen going forward in our ability to be competitive and add differential value to our shareholders is the results that weve accomplished there.
So we will in very asset area we provide a little bit of that information in our appendix but we will be continuing to update that as we have our year-end numbers but demonstrating how that capital efficiency continues to improve.
Ill say I just have been super impressed with the focus of the leadership and employees inside of Chesapeake.
Im not kidding you its like weapons grade attacking cost and driving value that is unlike anything Ive ever seen before and its just really exciting and you can just expect to see that continued trend and I know there will questions today about 2015 our capital program but the best way to look at 2015 is to look at how the company has performed in 2014.
And Mike Ill just note that as you think about the cost reductions weve seen play-over-play across Northern and Southern division think about how those cost reductions have been reinvested in improved completion designs and ultimately showing higher well performance in nearly every play along with those cost reductions.
So its really driving to what youre looking for their which is higher returns not just reduced cost in every play.
Mike this is Chris Doyle.
Just to add a little bit of color Jason and I sit down with the teams every quarter as you know in post appraise and I think what has been really gratifying for both of us to see is sequential improvement across the board and in almost every play continually redefining what efficiency means and Ill just point to the release and team in the Marcellus North that completed following 30 million a day and did it for under $8 million its something that the company hadnt been able to do to-date and yet the team just like a lot of teams across the board have continued to not only drive efficiency not only drive cost down but also re-think completions re-think how were investing those dollars and it is evident across the entire portfolio.
A question Doug on the M&amp;A front today you guys have largely been on the sales side of any transactions here with the cleaned up balance sheet liquidity better than it has ever been before at least since I have been covering Chesapeake your desire to potentially look to do bolt-on deals or potentially jump into a new basin entirely Id like to hear your thoughts on that front? Certainly well we look forward to closing this transaction in the fourth quarter or in December as we noted Mike.
And we absolutely are evaluating every single opportunity to drive greater shareholder value which includes bolt-on acquisitions or turning the strength in expertise thats demonstrated in our ability to operate and efficiently deploy capital into new assets.
And were looking at that we will continue to look at that the key there is that anything we do will be focused at driving the greatest amount of shareholder value and we look forward to sharing more information on that as we firm up and develop those plans.
You highlighted the strong rates of return particularly in the Eagle Ford and the Utica thats driven strong production here.
And one of the questions coming out of the analyst meeting is how next years inventory from a rate of return perspective and a well productivity perspective and future year inventory compares the types of wells that youre drilling now.
Can you talk about how you see the opportunity set in next year and in future years versus this year both in terms of well productivity and in terms of capital versus operating costs? Certainly I believe that you will continue to see that portfolio set increase as I have noted in the past we are all focused on expanding the core through improved capital efficiencies and through additional EUR adding more value will open up more opportunities for us going forward.
I think that when you look at the individual program IRRs and you look at the investment level that we have in the assets at present were very pleased with the continued improvement and obviously price will play a large component in the IRR but when you just price normalize everything were continuing to see good improvements and that portfolio set is expanding.
And its Jason.
Again all across the board weve seen again our rates of returns go up because of the cost reductions.
I think one of the things were kind of in progress last quarter or this quarter as with the end of the year is looking at how we optimize the completions and get the EUR side of the equation up that further drives the value on a per well basis increases our rate of return.
So getting more out of the wells that weve already got in inventory little things like the Haynesville drilling cross unit laterals were continuing to do those next year and well have almost 60% or 70% of our inventory next year will be cross unit laterals.
And we see with those we spend about $500 000 extra and gained $2 million of NPV for every well in the Haynesville that we can drill across unit lateral.
So its the little things that tend to make a big difference for us and were continuing to just drive our completion efficiency on the capital side down but reinvest that in a lot of cases to get the EURs up which just has a compounded value to it.
And the only thing I would add is I might point you to the inventory slide we have put in the deck and we obviously had a really strong quarter in production growth and what is really I think exciting is you see that inventory and its essentially flat year-over-year.
And so that boost in production has been driven by better completions its been driven by more capital efficient investments and not by a draw down in the inventory.
So that gives us a lot of comfort as we look forward to what these assets can deliver and just a shout out to the Utica team at the Analyst Day we pointed to year-end active rate of 100 000 barrels of equivalent per day net.
We just touched 965 were continuing to execute about as well as anybody out there and riding capacity all the way up weve got three additional projects the team is working on through compression capacity expansions one processing capacity expansion is going to get us to the end of the year and couldnt be more proud of those guys.
And then as a follow-up since you mentioned you expected questions on 2015 I may well ask that how do you think you have very strong balance sheet here particularly after the asset sale to Southwestern.
How do you think about activity levels next year versus this year and your willingness to drill through lower prices and use the balance sheet a little bit versus reduced activity from what it would otherwise have been? Sure Brian its a great question and one that were evaluating very closely the financial discipline that we have driven into the company and the focus on capital and our cash generating capabilities is an issue that we discussed continuously inside of Chesapeake.
When you look at 2015 the key that we just would ask you to focus on is that were going to invest at the appropriate rate to add the greatest value to our shareholders.
And so as weve really tightened up our program in the 2013 and 2015 the focus for us is driving the greatest amount of value and its really when you think of slightly over spending cash flow under spending cash flow adding to the program the key strategic tenant in that is that were driving for the greatest value and evaluating those options and were really confident in our ability to be competitive even in this low price environment.
Say Doug just one general question first and just two specific first on just the efficiencies obviously Nick really detailed and it shows in the press release just how well you are continuing to cut those cost.
Im wondering I guess kind of like Brians question in 2015 I know you have budgets out there yet but how do you when you think about spending when you guys are looking at this budget are you assuming that cost can even go lower with these efficiencies you certainly have done a heck of a job bringing them down already just your thoughts about that?  Sure Neal.
What I really love about the program that the asset reviews that I have sat in in the past few months the team is just continuing to drive further improvements and its very-very exciting to see when we look at 2015 obviously we take our post appraisal information and incorporate those current estimates for individual wells and the capital program and run our miles to determine the optimum allocation of capital to drive the greatest amount of value for us but what we know inherent in our program is that well continue to see additional improvements and whats exciting about it is its the team the leadership has taken place and each of the teams its a contiguous environment of driving more value and so the way that we look at 2015 were using the most current well information and well base our program off of current cost but whats just really cool about it as we continue to see and Im very confident that well see further efficiencies as we execute in 2015.
So if your question is do we estimate additional savings that well come up with the capital program in 2015? The answer is no.
Do I anticipate or expect that well see it you better believe it.
Two its questions for either you or Chris just wondering first you and Chriss thoughts on early part of the play after seeing the recent I know the well that youd mentioned that you were going to have up there and then your thoughts down in that sort of Southeastern part on running the dry gas right now I think youve got a couple of rigs running?  Sure Neal this is Chris.
On the oil window we continue to be pleased with our latest results were seeing that well I think we mentioned on the last call came in at the highest IP its continuing to outperform our expectations its still flowing naturally were going to install some lift and give it a little help but what our plan is weve got four or five additional wells between now and probably second quarter as we look to expand capacity out there and get some more tests out there.
The window is growing its not shrinking its as we have said its not a company changer but it is I think a testament to the value-driven culture that is here at Chesapeake of expanding that core is a perfect example of that.
So we continue to be pleased Neal on that and we have more results to come.
And on the dry gas we still have of the seven rigs that weve got running we still have a pretty large portion of that program that is HBP driven and we like that as we said all along we like the play we like the dry gas window we like where our core position is and where were expanding out to the oil window.
The big issue with the dry gas is just infrastructure honestly.
Ill point you and everyone else back to the fact that no one has more production data than Chesapeake on all of these windows we know this play exceptionally well.
Weve had recent tests that had confirmed our thoughts and we like the play its a great asset for us.
And then Chris just real quick on that why was it it was very minor but I noticed the average peak production rate was just slightly lower for this quarter versus last despite I think continuing to add more frac stages just your thoughts there? On the Utica I think what Id pointed you to Neal is just a steady continuing ramp and just this week getting it at 965 as I mentioned before and the asset is just continuing to execute and the team is doing a fantastic job of riding that capacity really not massive capacity expansion from the beginning of the quarter to the end but well just continue to ride that line so were doing a fantastic job.
I got a couple please the first one just as we think about obviously the lower oil price environment I just wanted to be clear on your messaging going into 2015 so should we still expect Chesapeake to be living with any cash flow or given that youve done great strides in your balance sheet obviously youve got a lot more flexibility but I think that capital discipline message has been a hallmark of your 10 year to-date so could you just give us a like a reiteration of how you see that and if I may how you would like your plays in terms of incremental capital in the event that you did have to curtail the dollar spend there?  Sure.
Thanks for the question Doug.
So as we look at 2015 and we look at capital allocation what our budget could potential be and how that sits with respect to cash flow.
The most important thing to me is that is how we create the greatest amount of value long-term.
And so while weve had a very strong focus on approximating our capital program with our cash flow we will continue to look at the very closely on how do we drive the greatest value.
We have significant flexibility in our program.
We no longer shackle the all kinds of activity commitments and things that dont get us the ability to move rigs around to drive the greatest amount of value.
And so I think that yes we want to continue to be very-very focused on our cash generating capability in this price environment.
But we also stronger than that as were focused on value and focused on how do we continue to develop our assets to create the most efficient portfolio and value we can for our shareholders.
So without saying where our capital budget will be I think that its all of that is under consideration and it will be evaluated based on the flexibility we have driven into our program and how we optimize the value for our shareholders.
So when you think about where the competition for competition for capital call it inside the company is very-very strong and as I had noted before in the past perhaps at Analyst Day and other investor discussions the scarcity of capital drives tremendous value when the teams see rigs moving away the fight to drive greater value through technology through innovation through synergies through creativity just is an awesome thing to watch.
And so even today when we look at our programs the IRR of our gas investments that Jason noted are continuing to improve.
The quality of the Marcellus gas investments is still very strong and competitive for capital.
And obviously the Eagle Ford the Powder River Basin and the Mid-Con investments as well as the Utica we have a robust portfolio and so rather than talk about what we would take away or what we cut back on Id rather point to these teams are fighting viciously for funding and for driving more value for our shareholders and its just a great thing to watch.
I appreciate your answer Doug there if I may I am just going to try two very quick follow-ups one is housekeeping really when the Southern Marcellus Utica is gone one of the things drives on your guidance I guess has been the wide gas basis differentials none that maybe largely a function of the Northern Marcellus but it is also transportation issues so Im just curious does that guidance changes dramatically when the Marcellus I am talking about the basis differential does that change dramatically when the Marcellus is gone? And my final one if I may is when you say youre just getting started after the Marcellus sale Im just wondering if you could give us some thoughts as to what additional if any material asset disposals you might see order magnitude as opposed to specifics on the plays so I guess you wouldnt want to give us those? And I will leave it there.
Thank you.
Sure Doug.
What I mean when I say were just getting started is similar to when we describe that we saw a value gap in our valuation of that asset back at Analyst Day I think you specifically asked me exactly what does that mean and the comment I had is were going to absolutely drive the greatest shareholder value that we can possibly capture and thats what weve done.
And so rather than be specific about what asset sales we might consider what acquisitions we might consider what capital program I just would like to draw your attention that they way were performing and the way were going to continue to perform is that our shareholders can take great confidence that were going to drive great value in this company and were 100% aligned in the organization the culture is aligned to it and I just couldnt be more excited about it and so you can continue to expect great things from Chesapeake and Nick I think will provide you a little more color on the differentials as we dispose that asset.
So Doug when you think about the amount of production in the Southern Marcellus that represented only approximately 7% of our total production in the Company.
So it did have relatively high gas differential compared to some of other plays and so it has a minor positive impact but overall remember its only about 7% despite the size of the proceeds being very large its a relatively small amount of our production.
So on a pro forma basis you should be able to estimate what the impact is.
Most of the questions have been asked.
But can I circle to the Powder? And I know you talked about it at Analyst Day and since then it seems like its had an increasingly growing position in the presentations and kind of some of your verbiage.
So can you just talk about I know I think in the presentation you said we have three rigs running right now.
Can you talk about what activity levels look like out there next year what you guys are seeing? Just kind of give us an overall update on the Powder? Sure Dave we love the Powder River we love the acquisition up there and are excited about that program and were presently evaluating with the available capacity that we have coming online later this year.
What exactly our program is going to look like? We consider it to be another strong growth engine for the company and the teams are doing a great job in driving the capital down up there and being more efficient.
I think Chris may want to add a little more color to it.
Sure.
The acquisition the trade that we made with RKI was all about unleashing additional assets into the hands of this operating team that has driven so much value into that area for us.
Were currently at four rigs that fourth rig we brought in to drill the first Shannon it is continuing to test the other multiple stack pays that we had out there.
When we look at where were today to the end of the year weve got Bucking Horse coming on scheduled later this month well build into that capacity when we think of our program next year its probably going to be split about half Niobrara half Upper Cretaceous as we continue to see phenomenal results in those multiple stack pays.
When we think about the Niobrara we got a lot of really interesting very powerful value driven tests coming up.
We have a couple pads where were testing four different benches within the 200-250 foot Nio stretch.
So you think about stacking laterals and what that can do to this resource play its a huge value lever for us and those will be coming online at the end of this year and first part of next.
So we got stack Nio coming weve got the next five Sussex wells including some long laterals coming in February were drilling the second Parkman today were drilling a Teapot just lots of lots of really cool stuff were extending that Nio out and its just a team that had taken their destiny in their own hands and continued to deliver a tonne of value for our shareholders.
So thats just great job by that team.
And let me give one more shot at that.
When you start thinking about the Sussex versus the Upper Cretaceous or I am sorry the Niobrara you obviously want to characterize it Sussex versus Upper Cretaceous.
Can you talk about is one looking better than the other? Is one more perspective? You care to give us anymore color just filling that one more level? The Niobrara is a larger resource and so we like that its delivering really strong returns at the Sussex weve seen the first three tests that have outpaced our expectations we see a lot of running room there its not a blanket like the Nio the resource is significant but probably not as large as the Niobrara but also offers higher returns and a little bit higher oil cut.
And so the mix between the Niobrara the Sussex the Parkman the Shannon the Teapot in addition to other plays I think when you roll it all up you have a tremendous opportunities in the liquids growth engine for this company.
So I would think just to characterize it for you Niobrara is extensive huge resource good returns Sussex and other Upper Cretaceous probably a little bit better returns but not as huge of a resource but very significant.
Doug in the second quarter earnings conference call you said that you werent quite happy with the portfolio and the product mix and it sounds from earlier comments that youre still not fully satisfied.
So do you still see a need to reshape the portfolio and sell some assets buy some additional assets? And what about the portfolio is not ideal and whats missing? Its a great question Joe its something that were internally discussing all the time and its all centered on really with the size of that company an organization producing right at 730 000 barrels of equivalent per day.
And you look at our current weighting were right in that 70-30 split gas and oil.
While we love the quality of the portfolio that we have we also want to be as competitive as possible in our cash generating capability and the efficiency of our investments.
And so were going to continue to look at opportunities of the existing assets and potential new assets to further strengthen that portfolio to be more competitive.
The key is is like Jason noted and Chris has highlighted that the focus on the portfolio we have and where were investing today is very strong and we expect to see continued improvements and better returns in each of those plays.
But we do know that there are a few assets that we have that still are not attracting capital and we may look at potential other asset sales.
But the key is if all points back Joe to how we drive the greater value and how wed be more competitive.
And so the flexibility we have today operating commitments financial obligations all those things that drove decisions that werent optimum for shareholders in the past are gone and so we can make decisions with proceeds from asset sales on what we want to fund whether it would be acquisitions whether it would be additional drilling activity all those things give us a lot of flexibility in driving towards the greater value story.
And then a follow-up and so in terms of your move to just improve efficiency lower cost improve rates of return.
So what metrics should we look at to see those operational improvements so like for example like when I look at say LOE on a unit basis I see that its come down some but with all the moves in the portfolio its hard to see how much of an improvement in LOE is portfolio moves and how much is just really internal improvement and efficiencies on a same-store sales basis? As I look at say DD&amp;A DD&amp;A is relatively flat over the past several quarters so if were seeing improved capital efficiency like why are we seeing an improvement in DD&amp;A on income statement.
So if you could just point us to the metrics that we can really look at to see that really represent whats going on internally?  Yes Joe I really appreciate your comments.
Weve had so much noise in the portfolio in so many transactions that it really does make it difficult on just a normalized type of basis to see all those improvements I think that what you will continue to see though is the quarterly improvements and youll see in 2015 as a lot of these transactions get closed assets get moved off of our books a more steady state by which you can compare our continued improving performance.
When you look at each whether it would be a cash cost metric or capital efficiency or just the standard financial metric you look at all of them anyway you know what they are I wouldnt say it would point you to any particular one just keep watching them and youll see that the clarity in it clean up with time as we get at the noise of all this transactional stuff taken care of and well continue to do our best to in our presentations and discussions and certainly any one off call and questions you might have to try to answer those questions better.
Pickering Holt</strong>  Just a one quick question heading into Q4 and early 2015 I was wondering if you could provide us an update on your thoughts around catching up on the completion front as well as any kind of remaining carry outstanding and just in context around how we should think about the MVC commitments from a payment perspective?  So several questions in there when we look going forward with the carry we anticipate that basically all the carries are going to be exhausted this year we may have a little bit of residual carry roll into 2015.
And as far as how we incorporate that when you look at the inventory what is important to know we have put that slide in the presentation to show that basically the 2014 year-end inventory is going to be the same as what we were at year-end 2013.
And the reason to note that is that what the efficiencies our production increases are not coming from inventory reduction.
Inventory is relatively flat because of the continued efficiencies that were recognizing in the multi-well pad drilling and well eventually reach steady state of inventory in each of the assets thats a function of efficient operations and efficient capital development.
So were getting close to that but I think the key to how we mobilize that inventory and as we look forward in 2015 is again focused on how do we drive the greatest value?  And then Ill just note on the question you had about the MVC Matt that will be paid out in the fourth quarter as projected really no changes to our expectations there.
Pickering Holt</strong> And then I guess just a second follow-up question for Doug or the team I was wondering if you could provide us maybe a little bit of context as you have said there has been a lot of moving parts in terms of assets improving in the portfolio as well as well cost coming down and other efficiencies youve driven through the drill there.
I was wondering if you could provide us potentially some color today on how you think about ranking your top three or four assets and allocating capital to those as we head into next year?  Sure so as I have kind of noted earlier there Matt Im a little hesitate rank them because as the competitive capital allocation process inside of this company is so fierce its just an awesome thing to watch that the way the teams are driving for improved efficiencies were seeing continued improvement across the board if you look at it on IRR basis the quality of some of the gas investments are just outstanding.
You look at it from a total portfolio perspective the continued development and quality of the investments were seeing in the Eagle Ford and in the Power River and Utica and as well as emerging activity in the Mid-Con we are seeing really good things everywhere I really hesitate to say one is any better than another because what the beauty of Chesapeake in our assets is a really strong portfolio of investment opportunities.
Real quickly you talked about rig flexibility as far as moving it around the portfolio can you talk a little bit about rig flexibility as far as ramping up or down relative to commodity prices contractual commitments and maybe talk towards completion contractual commitments as well?  Sure so we specifically have designed our program and our number of contracts and longer term commitments around just for this point in time Dave that when we need to make adjustments we can make those adjustments whether its standardizing the fleet to be able to move to different assets or whether its a situation if we want to ramp-up or ramp-down weve got that flexibility and as I noted previously we are no longer shackled to activity commitments or minimum well commitments or things like that or rigs or anything thats going to encumber or inhibit our performance.
And then just thinking about the efficiency gains that you outlined and obviously keeping kind of completion backlog the same can we read into that that with the current rig count you could be looking at the same number of wells next year if not more just trying to get some handle on what activity would look like on a year-over-basis on a well productivity standpoint?  Dave its Chris Doyle I think you could exactly see that if given the same rig count we would deliver more wells and if you dissect into that inventory graph what its telling you is multiple things; one the wells that have come online in areas where we have capacity constraints the wells have outperformed what we initially thought and so we didnt have to bring as many wells on and so weve kept the backlog.
It also says that the drilling teams across the entire company are delivering more wells into that backlog than originally anticipated.
And so I love the story of the Marcellus North this is the team that it drilled 800 wells going in this year and from the beginning of the year to where we are now they have cut 25% of their cycle times.
This is a revolution of drilling efficiency that we have seen and it has caused is something were not terribly proud of which is our inventories there its a fantastic problem to have but yes absolutely given the same rig count this team will deliver more wells next year than they did this year.
And then just thinking about that when you made the comments earlier Doug made the comments earlier about the Marcellus and flexing activity to match seasonal gas prices should we assume well see similar activity in the Utica?  Well in the Utica it is a little bit different where we are maxing out to capacity we have additional capacity we could tap into in Marcellus North it gives us the ability to flex up flex down as needed.
Utica is a little bit different I wouldnt expect us to have that same sort of game plan.
But honestly we have some flexibility to do that but probably to a lesser extent in the Utica.
Okay.
Really appreciate the added color guys great work.
This is Jason and a add on a little bit to what Chris said as far as the South you know what I look back at 2012 when we had 31 rigs running in Eagle Ford were drilling the same number of wells today with 21 rigs as we did with 31 back then so just the efficiencies are huge we are pushing the boundaries on cost so I can see another 10% coming on Marcellus every asset for next year and you just think what that does to our value as a company its huge in areas which youve got thousands of wells to go drill and as you can cut another $5 000 off in Eagle Ford its significant to us and we can keep our rigs running and reinvest that capital.
As far as inventory build for us again were running more rigs than we planned earlier this year because weve saved money and been able to keep the rig count high but were adding two frac crews in the Eagle Ford these last two months so we should pull down our Eagle Ford inventory a little bit by year-end.
We wont really see the production from those extra frac crews till next year but were working on that but it has just been inventory build because of all of our efficiency.
So its been a great story for us in the South.
How much of the capital efficiency gains achieved to-date can be describe as maybe just picking the low hanging fruit that is squeezing out the obvious inefficiencies for something thats more innovative and how many of those same easier opportunities remain?  So thats a great question Dan and when I came into the company our focus was how do we drive greater cost management ultimately leading to what I call cost leadership.
Cost management means that we stop doing things that arent adding value to our shareholders.
Cost leadership means that we deliver more for less deliver something unexpected or more value than what we have previously.
It also means cost leadership that we compete strongly if not that leader in all of the areas in which were investing and I am so happy to see what our teams have accomplished across the portfolio whether it be cycle time feet per day the value achieved its across this portfolio.
The cost leadership demonstrated and efficiency improvements its no longer cost management it is absolute cost leadership.
Weve made reference in the past that there are a lot of opportunities for low hanging fruit and as we have worked through the past year we cleaned that up thats all cleaned up.
And now its just pure cost leadership.
And just as a follow-up to that and appreciating that its not yet 2015 but looking into 2015 the New Year what could a weaker commodity price environment mean for the same capital efficiency gains.
That is is there already an expectation of cost deflation more than offsetting lower commodity prices? I guess it is just another way of asking whether the capital efficiency rate of change is likely to decelerate or accelerate going forward? Well there is so much volatility right now with the pricing.
I think that just operational synergies EUR improvements things that we can control you will absolutely see continued improvement in 2015.
As we look at the supply chain side of our business and you think of the significant purchasing power that Chesapeake has with the amount of activity that we have in the United States we will be capturing those supply chain opportunities working with our vendors in a new commodity price environment to secure the best pricing that we possibly can and be as most competitive as possible.
So were not building into our forecast so we expect a certain reduction in any of our services but I can tell you that the power and strength of our portfolio we will be absolutely reviewing that and looking for the most competitive pricing in order to execute our program.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
Yes just did you have anything you want to add Chris? Yes Ill just add on the supply chain front that really our focus with the energy 77 spin that does give us the ability to tap into the full purchasing power.
But our focusing going forward is our partners our service providers are going to want to work with the best in the basin.
They are going to want to work for the Company lets say in the Utica thats going to put away nine stages every day for the entire week versus two.
They want to work for a company thats going to turn wells around in 10 days not 30.
So that is the focus this is going to be a partnership going forward were very confident not only will we see the full purchasing power deliver value for our shareholders but a strong partnership where companies want to work for the most efficient operator out there.
And thats our focus going forward.
If I could go back Doug I know you filled the number of questions and people want to know how you rank the plays and I think its understandable that you guys have some of the best guys placed but you also have some great oil plays as well.
So you are a little bit unusual in that respect.
I think we can imagine how this is going on as you talk about your competitive capital allocation that the fellows that the liquids -- what liquids have you placed? Can I have the heat on them now? Can you maybe talk about is there some aspect or some portion of your portfolio that you think is kind of unrecognized option value in the market.
I mean I am thinking maybe perhaps a guess you are part of the Eagle Ford that really would rise to the top or maybe I guess your portion of your PRB acreage thats not recognized that is a candidate for a surprise in 2015? Well Charles I think our entire portfolio is undervalued.
I think every single asset is undervalued and Well you guys certainly showed that with that West Virginia deal.
Well the thing that were focused on internally and the excitement inside of Chesapeake is driving value.
And I know its been a while since we have been on campus it is the coolest thing to see the excitement and energy level of these teams and this company in driving the highest quality investments out these programs in these great assets.
And I will highlight that one area that has not caught a lot of attention for us and is not been one of a lot of focus is our Mid Continent assets in Oklahoma.
And we have a huge acreage position we have got a lot of stack pays as weve been working through our portfolios we see a lot of upside potential in Oklahoma and we will be working hard across the portfolio to recognize the value that we believe exists and Mid-Con is an area that just to answer your question to get around to it in a long winded way I think that we really needed to highlight the great things that are taking place in Oklahoma because it is contributing substantially to our program and we expect it to contribute significantly in the future.
So that portfolio is undervalued.
Thats what I was looking for.
And then if I could just ask one question on CapEx so your capital efficiency clearly on display with what you guys have done coming in below what a lot of people are looking for in Q3.
But that implies -- you have kept the annual guidance it actually implies a guide up or not a guide up but a ramp-up into Q4 and so is that what we should be looking for and is that a sign of where youre looking to begin 2015 or is it more likely that youre going to kind of stay on your trajectory and come in below your guidance?  Well are you talking about the production?  CapEx.
CapEx okay.
Were executing really well in all the programs I think that weve kind of put out there what our annual guidance is and we feel very comfortable with that range and as you would expect the teams inside of this company are going to continue to drive for further improvements and Im looking forward to seeing what they continue to deliver because its just its really good work and I think capital and production and other value drivers will continue to see the improvements in the value created.
So should we expect a ramp-up in Q4 is that kind of a prelude to 2015 or is that reading too far into it?  This is Jason again well ramp-up in at least the Eagle Ford this quarter again weve increased frac crews weve been running the 21 rigs weve also added three spudders because we see every well it has a spudder rig on it it saves $60 000 a well and well be higher next quarter than this quarter especially in Eagle Ford because were just continuing to work down that inventory via the increased stimulation crude count and running that higher rig count through the end of the year.
So well definitely see some capital pressure there increase going forward.
We will do the same in Powder or will keep the second frac crew running we mobilized it about a month ago and so youll see that flow through to higher investment in the fourth quarter than the third.
That sounds good thanks a lot.
Okay thanks a lot Charles.
Were at the top of the hour.
I would like to thank everyone for joining us today.
This concludes our teleconference and please follow-up with Brad and his team if you have any other questions and you can expect to see continued improvement from Chesapeake.
Thank you all.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brad Sylvester.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for 2014 and the fourth quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the updated Investor Presentation that we posted to our website this morning.
So during this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which consist of statements that cannot be confirmed by our reference to existing information including statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release earlier this morning and in other SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
I would now like to introduce the members of the management team who are on the call.
With me today are Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Executive Vice President of Operations for our Northern Division; and Jason Pigott our Executive Senior Vice President of Operations for our Southern Division.
So with that I'll now turn the conference  the teleconference over to Doug and Nick and then we'll move to the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Brad and good morning.
I trust that everyone has had a chance to see our press release that was issued earlier this morning.
I'd like to start this call by first thanking the Chesapeake employees for an outstanding 2014.
Together we made remarkable improvements in our operating efficiencies financial stability and competitive performance.
And here are a few of the significant accomplishments achieved in 2014.
Our safety performance in 2014 as measured by total recordable incident rate or TRIR was the best in the history of the company a 35% improvement over 2013.
We reduced our cumulative reportable spill volumes by 42% compared to 2013 and I'm very proud of these two significant improvements in our safety and our environmental performance.
On the operations side of our business we grew our total oil and natural gas equivalent production by 9% adjusting for asset sales in 2014 an impressive accomplishment when considering the reduction in our total capital expenditures compared to the prior year.
In mid-December we reached a new production record of 770 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and achieved the highest production in our company's history while operating an average of 64 rigs which is less than half the number of rigs we operated in 2012.
Since 2012 we have improved our capital efficiency by 30% to 60% in each of our major operating areas.
Through these efficiencies the continuous improvement and the cost leadership of our employees we have driven hundreds of millions of dollars out of our well costs over this time period.
We reduced our drilling and completion expenditures by nearly $1 billion compared to 2013 all due to our increased focus on value and efficiency but also because we created a supply chain group in 2014 that delivered significant synergies and cost reductions.
In total our capital expenditures fell by 14% in 2014 to approximately $6.7 billion.
If we exclude acquisitions our capital expenditures were 23% below 2013.
We reduced our cash costs by 9% achieving the lowest production and G&amp;A costs on a BOE basis in a decade.
From a financial perspective Chesapeake became significantly stronger less complex and much more flexible in 2014.
There are three major accomplishments that set us apart from our peers.
First we completed the largest and most significant transaction in our company's history with the divestiture of our Southern Marcellus shale and Eastern Utica shale assets for approximately $5 billion giving us tremendous financial flexibility.
While the assets represented just 7% of total production the proceeds from the sale equaled 40% of our market capitalization at the time it was announced another reflection of our industry-leading high-quality unconventional portfolio.
We completed a $450 million acquisition and exchange that doubled our equity interest in the prolific oil-rich Powder River Basin an area which we believe will be another strong oil growth engine for the company.
We successfully spun off our oil field services division a critical step in divesting non-core assets and affiliates and focusing our efforts and resources on our core E&amp;P business.
We redeemed our Utica preferred shares which not only reduced complexity but also eliminated $75 million of annual cash dividend payments.
We reached another first in our company's history with a new unsecured $4 billion credit facility with investment grade-like terms.
We also received two-notch upgrades from Moody and S&amp;P placing us one level below investment grade at both rating agencies.
We eliminated $4.2 billion of leverage and complexity from our company in 2014 and ended the year with over $4 billion of cash on hand and we were completely undrawn on our credit facility.
These along with many other achievements have helped Chesapeake to become a much stronger company which brings us to today.
As I've told our employees many times the transformation that has occurred at Chesapeake over the past 18 months has prepared us for such a time as we see today.
The current commodity price environment is difficult but our focus on value and industry-leading performance is unchanged and we are managing our business and activity levels around current strip prices of approximately $55 per barrel for oil and $3 for natural gas.
Looking at 2015 we have reduced our total planned capital program by 37% compared to 2014.
We're forecasting production growth of 3% to 5% in 2015.
As noted despite making changes to this year's capital program and reducing our activity levels we are not changing our focus on driving differential performance.
We will focus even more on increasing our financial and operational flexibility in 2015 and throughout this challenging commodity price environment.
We will continue to drive our costs lower and generate more value where we invest and use  and this confidence comes from using 2014 as a proxy and I have no doubt we will succeed.
In closing I've said before that 2013 was our year of transformation.
2014 was our year of foundational improvement and 2015 will be a year of leadership for Chesapeake Energy.
Our determination to drive top quartile E&amp;P performance and our commitment to creating shareholder value are stronger than ever and I'm confident that we are positioning Chesapeake to be a leading E&amp;P company.
That concludes my comments.
I'm now going to turn the conference over to Nick for a review of our financial results and then we'll open up for questions.
Nick? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thank you Doug and good morning everyone.
As Doug mentioned Chesapeake has never been stronger than we are today both operationally and financially and we are very well positioned as we enter 2015.
We made significant progress in 2014 in simplifying our balance sheet and strengthening our financial position primarily driven by the sale of our Southern Marcellus and certain of our Eastern Utica assets the redemption of our preferred shares our oilfield services spin-off and our new unsecured credit facility we put in place.
We are confident that our strategies to create shareholder value are working.
And while the current pricing environment is not particularly enjoyable for our industry we will continue to be nimble and flexible with regard to our capital investments and we'll continue to take the appropriate steps to keep our positive momentum.
Our production of 729 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for 2014 fourth quarter grew by 12% both sequentially and year-over-year after adjusting for asset sales.
In December we began curtailing approximately 250 million cubic feet of gross operated gas per day in the Marcellus due to low in-basin field prices.
Other operators in the area began curtailing gas in the fourth quarter as well.
These curtailments have totaled approximately 15 000 net barrels of oil equivalent per day and continued in the first quarter at rates as high as 20 000 to 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This combined with the asset sales of our Southern Marcellus and other producing properties of 57 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and various downtime events of approximately 7 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in our other operating areas has resulted in a first quarter 2015 production projection of approximately 645 000 to 655 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
I would also like to note that in our outlook we are projecting curtailment to remain in place for all of 2015.
On the pricing side lower NGL pricing due primarily to weaker ethane and other product pricing had a significant effect on our earnings and cash flow in the fourth quarter.
We also recorded the annual impact of our MVC production shortfall in December as forecasted which reduced our gas revenues by approximately $120 million or approximately $0.43 per Mcf.
While our hedges helped partially mitigate the impact of lower pricing and will continue to help us in 2015 we expect our realized pricing to remain low and have included our estimates of basis and non-basis differentials and our MVC estimate for 2015 in our press release.
Our forecast on cost discipline throughout the entire organization has helped to partially offset the effects of lower commodity pricing.
Our production expenses production taxes G&amp;A expenses and net interest expense for the 2000 (sic) [2014] fourth quarter were $7.56 per boe a decrease of 8% year-over-year.
Operationally we continue to see our completed well cost decline in almost all of our operating areas.
As we become more efficient we will drive our costs even lower.
As the year progresses we believe that oilfield service cost reductions will become more apparent and as such we are building in an estimate of around 10% in service cost savings for 2015 before any capital efficiency improvements by our operating teams.
Finally our balance sheet is in great shape.
With the successful completion of the sale of our Southern Marcellus over $2 billion in other asset sales and the new revolving credit facility we put into effect in December our liquidity position has never been better.
With over $4 billion of cash on hand at the end of the year nothing drawn on our credit facility and a net debt to capitalization ratio of around 29% we are in excellent position to weather this current price environment and take advantage of opportunities to add shareholder value.
That concludes my comments so I will now turn the conference over to the operator for questions.
And we'll take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dave.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So looking at your reduction in wells that are going to be tied to sales in 2015 can you talk a little bit about how you're going to manage that process throughout the year? A lot of folks have been deferring those completions for better service costs and for higher commodity prices.
Just any kind of color on the cadence of that would be helpful.
Southern Division</span></strong> This is Jason Pigott.
Yes.
Primarily in the Eagle Ford we'll be looking to defer some of the completions.
We've done a similar analysis that you have mentioned that our peers are doing that a little bit higher oil prices definitely the value of gaining that higher price outweighs the loss in NPV of deferring that completion.
So that's something that we'll do this year.
We'll build a little bit of inventory as we continue to run rigs in an area like the Eagle Ford.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then just looking at the individual stats you were giving on well cost and realizing that those are basically just through October I imagine with the comments about 10% reduction in service cost baked into your forecast.
Can you give us kind of color where you think those well costs stand today? Because that seemed to show a slight uptick through October.
Southern Division</span></strong> This is Jason again.
Yeah we've seen really good  one of the things we need to do is separate the supply chain savings from our technological innovations and we're going to see both of those this year.
An area like the Eagle Ford which we indicated $6.1 million.
We see $5.8 million in our wells that we're drilling to date with targets of getting down to $5.5 million.
Haynesville is another area where we've seen a lot of innovation and service cost reductions.
We've got a budget.
Those are difficult to put in a dollars per well because we're drilling at least three or four different types of wells out there.
We have single-unit laterals which are running around the $7 million range up to  we're trying some of these 7 500-foot laterals that can cost us almost $9 million.
And we've even got a couple of laterals planned this year that would be 10 000-foot laterals that would be around the $11 million range.
But just this week we had one of our lowest cost wells go down and actually the field cost estimates on that were $6.3 million for a well that was just a standard section.
So we're seeing really good improvement.
It's going to be difficult for us to put these costs in a dollar per well because we're drilling a wide range of wells out in that field.
Northern Division</span></strong> Dave this is Chris Doyle.
I'm just going to give you a little bit of color from the North assets in the Rockies.
The team peeled off $1 million from 2013 to 2014.
What we indicate is $9.1 million well cost.
I see us without any supply chain savings coming in under that $9 million mark.
And then on top of that supply chain savings will push us to the low 8's.
We continue  as Jason mentioned we continue to push longer laterals additional testing.
So we're not focused on a one well number really focused in on value.
In the Utica the team delivered wells in that $6.5 million range and I see us in the low 6's prior to supply chain.
And so we have a chance to bust $6 million there.
And then in the Marcellus I'd see us in the high-6's per well cost.
Great.
I appreciate the added color guys.
Thank you so much.
Southern Division</span></strong> And I'd also just highlight too as far as well cost and we're getting those down.
Some of the graphs we show where that capital efficiency where we take the capital divided by the productivity and those are some things that are difficult to see in area like the Haynesville where we're testing tighter perf clusters some different completion designs more sand and they really drive up the EURs.
When we look at that it's really that capital efficiency we continue to improve that and have seen great gains this year and don't expect that to stop in 2015.
So we're really excited about the program going forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I just might add Dave this is Doug.
We are intentionally holding production back in 2015 because we believe it's the prudent thing to do which means that we're going to see some increase in our inventory.
But I'd also just remind everyone that as you look at Chesapeake and our production-generating capability it's one of the most strong competitive attributes of this organization and the ability to efficiently grow production is simply outstanding.
So the way I'd describe it is it's like a coiled spring.
And once we see that it's the prudent thing to do to increase that production we're going to unleash that spring and we will rock it forward and continue to drive greater value for our shareholders.
Well I appreciate all the added color guys.
Thank you so much.
And our next question is from David Tameron with Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi.
Good morning.
Doug can you just talk about the M&amp;A environment and  I mean there's been a lot of questions obviously about what Chesapeake could purchase.
Can you talk about  or Nick or whoever  your availability? How much financial availability do you have to do something like that and then just kind of any color you can give us on what you may be looking at? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
That's a great question Dave.
We have  with the total liquidity we have available to us the cash position that we have we have a tremendous opportunity whether it's  basically everything is open to us that we could pursue to drive the greatest value for our shareholders.
We see a lot of opportunity out there at present.
We think that that opportunity will persist through 2015.
The key for us is how do we strategically build and improve our portfolio to be more competitive for the long haul.
And we're not focused on just a single year or a single quarter.
We are focused on how we drive the greatest value over the long term.
Anything that we do is going to be focused on how do we materially improve our returns for that long-term period? So we're evaluating a number of different things.
We have not publicly stated what our plans are but we will continue to look for opportunities to either bolt-on acquisition opportunities new opportunities that we can pursue.
We also have a lot of strength in our exploration program and we'll continue to look at that and then we always have capital structure opportunities as well.
So we're in a unique position with significant liquidity and cash on hand to move quickly and at the right time to add the most value for our shareholders.
Can you give us any leanings Doug as far as gas versus oil or anything along those lines? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as you guys know Dave I mean this company has one of the best gas portfolios in the entire world.
And our ability to increase gas production from these world class shale  gas assets is just unbelievable.
And so that strength and that power we have a lot of confidence in the portfolio.
We've noted that from the existing asset base we have the capability to grow these assets to a million barrels equivalent per day inside a five-year timeframe.
Now obviously prices impact that and can slow us down a little bit.
But I'd also highlight for everyone that in the latter part of 2013 to come up with better integrated better planned field development plans we ratcheted back our drilling program and there was a lot of questions about what's going on with that and why is Chesapeake reducing rig count? And then we quickly went in an area like the Eagle Ford from 9 rigs to 22 rigs in less than nine months.
So our ability to mobilize and drive value is unlike anyone else.
And so the capability to drive value and drive new volume growth from our assets we've got tremendous confidence in.
And as we look at the portfolio and we look at our margins we have that 70/30 split of gas to liquids and so our focus in opportunities that we believe are most attractive long term for our portfolio will be oil-weighted.
And so that's just the way I would answer that question.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one more and I'll let somebody else jump on.
If I look at just the CapEx allocation you guys have it split out there by area.
And I'm looking at Utica at 25% which call that off of $4.5 billion call that $1 billion-plus whatever that number is.
And then I'm looking at the D&amp;C CapEx allocation for 2014 and it looks like  it looks about half of that yet the rigs are being cut in half year-over-year.
Can you just talk about  just help me true up those numbers.
Northern Division</span></strong> So in the Utica we'll be running three to five rigs we indicate.
Keep in mind that the carry is rolled off in 2015.
One thing I would point out in the Utica we're currently producing over 850 million a day.
We've not only hit our exit rate of 100 000 barrels a day net as we targeted last Investor Day.
We averaged that for the quarter.
So those  that asset is performing exceptionally well.
That puts us right around our current processing capacity and compression capacity.
We'll continue to expand that a little bit this year.
But we don't see the need with the way the wells are hanging in there and the way the team is executing to run more than three to five rigs.
And so that's the plan for us in 2015 for the Utica.
Okay.
So is there facility numbers in there? Is that  I'm just  is it 200? Are you running 200-plus a rig $200 million a year? Northern Division</span></strong> We also have  we have a little bit of an inventory work down that we didn't see in 2014 so that will skew the numbers also.
Okay.
All right.
I'll let somebody else jump on.
Thanks guys.
And our next question is from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Thank you operator.
Hi everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Joe.
Doug could you walk us through the sequential quarterly production? We got your full year guidance and we got the first quarter from your presentation.
The first quarter 2015 guidance suggest you're going to be flat through the year because you just walked us through that.
And Nick if you could just give us the details on the curtailment again where is that and how much do you have baked in for 2015? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> I'll answer that last question first and Chris may want to jump in with more details because the curtailments are in his area.
But we started with about $250 million gross a day in December.
We have at various times through the quarter curtailed more than that.
On a net basis we see that at about  it started at about 1 500 barrels a day.
At points it's been as high 20 000 or 25 000 barrels a day.
And so we baked in between that 1 500 to a little bit higher number in for the year into our guidance.
So price dependent that could come off at some point but for now given where the strip is given where we see field pricing in the Northeast we think it's prudent to assume that those volumes would stay off line for the year.
And Nick is that all Northeast? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's all Marcellus Northern Marcellus.
And that's us plus our non-op.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And then just Joe if you look at slide 8 in that presentation it has a simple walkthrough of the production volumes basically from that record rate that we achieved in December of 770 000 barrels a day but also shows on a quarterly  for the quarter where we're at 729 000 and basically walking down with the divestitures curtailments and then just some incidental downtime that brings us down to that 645 000 to 655 000 range.
And then what we're looking at in that capital program is that we certainly as you know have the ability to ramp up our capital should we want to do that and if we did you'd see corresponding production increases.
So what we have targeted right now is we're looking at all the opportunities to how we can drive the greatest value and it gives us tremendous flexibility.
And so with our projection in that $4 billion to $4.5 billion range which includes everything including capitalized interest we are very comfortable and confident in our ability to grow 3% to 5% and on an adjusted basis and we will  we have significant opportunity to increase that if market conditions dictate.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Yeah.
And I see that slide.
And I guess it suggests that you're going to be basically flat 1Q to 2Q 2Q to 3Q 3Q to 4Q to get to that same 1Q average that matches the full-year average.
So is that fair? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's approximately fair yes.
Okay.
And then...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would just highlight again Joe.
I would not underestimate this company's ability to grow efficient production.
No I appreciate that.
And then in terms of the deferrals so is your plan to actually complete some of those deferred completions during the year or for the most part you're going to really push those off until 2016? Southern Division</span></strong> This is Jason.
We are pushing most of those into 2016.
And we'll have an area like the Eagle Ford for example.
I mean we'll have  we'll build 100 wells of inventory that  again like Doug was saying we have the ability to act on if prices change.
We can instantly bring in some frac crews and complete those wells.
So we'll build a little bit but we would plan to push that towards 2016 right now.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then lastly you got into some of the M&amp;A type opportunities you have with the cash you've got.
Like what are the most likely uses of the cash you have? Like is a significant use going out and buying bolt-on acreage or some other assets or do you have other ideas for the cash? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well basically Joe we have the ability or the option to do a number of different things with that cash.
And so we haven't shared anything yet with it.
The key there is that we can invest in our own portfolio.
We can use it for acquisitions or as I noted we can look at our capital structure.
And so  and we look forward to sharing more with you and the investment community as the year progresses but right now all those options are open to us.
All right.
Very helpful guys.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Joe.
And our next question is from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning everyone there.
Guys I was wondering if I could ask a bit about the NGL pricing not so much for the fourth quarter but really for your outlook.
And I think most people are aware that the pricing has been weak and ethane has got a negative crack spread all that sort of thing but I'm curious if you guys could talk a bit about what your outlook for the NGL pricing is and if that is possibly related to that negative midstream margin we saw in Q4? And maybe as part of that I'm looking at your guidance here where you're guiding to $48 to $52 off WTI.
Is the right way to think about that is WTI is $55 and so you're guiding to $3 to $7 a barrel? Is that  it didn't seem right but that's the way the math seems to work.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Charles we are forecasting a very weak NGL pricing environment for the year.
There was a part of your question that didn't come through.
But in general we have a fair amount of ethane some of which we do need to recover given various specs.
And so we're pulled down by ethane prices even in this environment and pricing will be challenged this year on the NGL front.
Got it.
Thank you Nick.
And maybe the part that was not  that didn't come through was if that was related to that  to the negative midstream margin we saw in Q4.
Is that really attributable to that to the NGL pricing difficulties? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> No that's really not the same driver at all.
Okay.
Okay.
And then if I could get you guys to talk a little bit more about your I guess your overall CapEx philosophy.
And I know you guys have spent a whole lot of time and I'm sure more iterations than you want to talk about looking at what your 2015 plan is going to be.
But as I look at it you guys are one of the few companies or maybe one of just a handful that are significantly outspending cash flow in the year.
So can you talk about what your I guess approach and philosophy is especially given some of Jason's earlier comments about it's actually paying to wait right now on  not just on maybe service costs but also with the contango in the commodity price.
And so what  I guess I'm asking why wouldn't you maybe hit the brakes harder in one in the first half of 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as we look at our investment opportunities across the portfolio maintaining the underlying strength of the operating efficiencies maintaining the strength of the leasehold position basically what we're doing is investing at a relatively conservative rate to maintain the production and maintain all the operating efficiencies so that we can accelerate and move forward when the time is right and prudent to do so.
That's good detail.
Thank you Doug.
And our next question is from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
I wanted to follow up a bit on the production profile but I wanted to talk a bit on the production mix side.
It seems like with much of the curtailments coming on the dry gas side can you talk to the production mix because it seems like when we take out the Southern Marcellus production relative to fourth quarter that nat gas seems to be staying a bit flat and most of the liquids are  most of the liquids are declining.
And I just  and I wonder if you can talk more specifically about what your oil backlog would be and how you see your oil production trajectory over the next few quarters? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Certainly Brian.
It's a good question.
So the 3% to 5% production growth we anticipate for 2015 is comprised of  basically we see our oil volumes increasing in that 2% to 3% range for the year and gas is in that 4% to 5% type range.
NGL is relatively flat or slightly negative for the year.
Yeah.
Got it.
Are you building a big backlog of oil production that you could easily bring on or not really? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well with that inventory we definitely will have opportunities for increasing oil production in 2016 when we focus back on attacking that inventory.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As Jason noted a minute ago the completion deferral in Eagle Ford for example you can always bring a frac crew back and begin to accelerate that  the newly created inventory whenever you get a price signal to do so.
Okay.
And then given the cost cutting that you've already done can you just talk to whether you expect to have at or better than industry cost reduction opportunities from here? And I wondered if you could also touch on the SG&amp;A side.
It may not exactly be apples-to-apples but it looks like on a dollar per boe basis that it was actually upticking here.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah the  I would say that our cost cutting and efficiency demonstrated in 2014 were like no other in the industry.
And I would just  I would look to 2014 to the value creation the value barbarians inside of Chesapeake Energy that are driving further efficiencies and value.
And I would expect nothing less than seeing a low-cost operator the most efficient operator in these assets and continued improvements in our cost structure.
This is not  when you look back at the year and you look at what's been accomplished in the past few years inside of Chesapeake this is not  we hope to reduce costs.
This is a company that's delivering exactly what we said we were going to do and I would expect to continue to see further cost improvements.
To be specific on that then if we fast-forward to the end of the year where do you think we could see the greatest surprise that you would under-spend your budget all else equal because of cost reductions; that we would see your lease operating costs fall; or that we would see SG&amp;A come in below your guidance? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Brian looking across the board everything is a focus point for us.
Cash costs are a focus the capital efficiencies are a focus and we're structured and we are motivated in all the right ways inside the company today to drive that greater value.
So I would expect in every area for us to see improvement and what I believe the way that we're focusing material improvements in all the areas.
So the uncertainly around the prices the uncertainty in the current environment definitely impacts the amount of rigs we have running and affects the production rate but the whole focus that we have is to be prudent and conservative in our capital allocation continue driving the things that we've built upon in 2014 and I think you'll continue to see strong operational capital efficiency and financial improvements inside Chesapeake in 2015.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> And just to reiterate one of the points that Doug is making there you asked us what should be the biggest sort of surprise.
Well if prices improve the biggest source of surprise will be production.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if I could maybe ask a question again on service costs.
You all talked about a 10% reduction.
It's a little bit less than some in the industry have been talking about.
Is there something regarding when you guys had locked in your contracts or where your contracts go to that may limit some initial cost reductions in the system? And additionally maybe give a little bit of color.
When you all spun off Seventy Seven did you have to lock-in contracts at that point in time which may have been like earlier than when obviously you would have liked to given what's happened in the market? Northern Division</span></strong> Hi Scott.
This is Chris Doyle.
We've been working with our partners and vendors to work out a mutual solution here and for Chesapeake that means bringing costs in line with the current price environment.
For our vendors that means having the chance to work with the most efficient operator out there and an operator with the long-term financial sustainability of Chesapeake.
The 10% of D&amp;C is not a back-of-the-envelope number that we threw out there.
This is a rigorous scheduled out line item by line item analysis of what we see as the opportunity to drive additional capital out of our system.
To your question about Seventy Seven Energy we have the contracts in place but we also have market price indications that mean that they have to provide us with market price and we are seeing that market move significantly down commensurate with the current commodity price environment.
The supply chain organization that stood up 18 months ago I've been really really impressed with.
They're there not only to maximize the purchasing power of Chesapeake but to solve what is not just a one-dimensional problem.
This is not just cost and that's it.
It's also about value.
It's about getting the best service for that cost.
And from our vendors' perspective it's not all about what they can charge us.
It's about operating efficiency and knowing that a Utica frac spread working for Chesapeake is going to put away two times as many stages as any other operator in the area.
And so it's a complex issue.
We've got a ton of folks working it.
I'm highly confident we're going to drive the best solution for our shareholders.
Okay.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> I might just add on top of that just real quick Scott the 10% is not our target.
So I think that  don't misconstrue that well 10% is what we hope to achieve or that we're targeting to achieve.
We believe we'll be able to go beyond that.
Our focus and our targets exceed that.
That is just a reflection of the conservatism in our program that we expect to accomplish that and we'll be absolutely seeking to drive greater cost reductions in that out of our program.
Northern Division</span></strong> And the 10% just to follow on is not a December-to-December number.
We can see that significantly higher than 10%.
Okay understood.
And just one more point of clarification on the budget.
Is there any like a standby charges on the rigs that's assumed in there? Northern Division</span></strong> We have both North and South we have some minimal expenses in there to stand rigs down but they're not material.
Okay.
And then one more if I could.
On the curtailments in the Marcellus can you give a little bit of color were the curtailments because obviously pricing has been a buck or  a buck or so in some of the areas.
Is it because production was uneconomical or was it your positioning that we're going to just defer production for a better price at a future time? Northern Division</span></strong> That's really it.
2014 when I think about the Marcellus they completely redefine the way we thought about that asset and rather than grow for growth's sake to really key in on value and we're not going to give gas away.
And essentially what we saw was what the in basin pricing we're better to curtail that 20 000 net barrels a day then produce into a strained environment.
We'll leverage our takeaway capacity our takeaway to get out of basin and we're seeing really good out of basin realization.
But we're not going to give gas away in basin.
And I know that there's not a whole lot of dollars budgeted for the Marcellus but why spend any dollars up there at this point if we're just curtailing gas? Northern Division</span></strong> So we'll be running one rig up there.
There's a little bit of lease work that we have to do.
Importantly I've continued to drive the team to look at longer term testing in the area of the Upper Marcellus.
We're going to drill some of those tests.
This is a long-term asset for us and not one that I'm ready to completely shut the rigs down.
It's not that we won't.
It's just not our focus today.
And it was interesting.
I was going back and we mentioned the Franclaire pad in the last quarter and it was a stark reminder to me this previous week of how far this asset has come.
Franclaire pad is a five-well pad two wells drilled back three years ago and three wells drilled last year.
The three wells drilled last year were 7 300-foot laterals versus 6 500-foot.
They were drilled in an average of 12 days instead of 33 days.
They were drilled for $7.3 million versus $10.8 million and the average IP of those three wells was 22 million a day versus 6 million three years ago.
So completely different value proposition for this asset and that I just get really excited on thinking about decades of growth and value coming out of the Marcellus.
I appreciate all the clarity.
Thank you.
And our next call is from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I guess someone touched on this earlier about the potential cash flow CapEx balance for this year.
I just wonder if I could get your perspective on this because given obviously you have got some hedging in place given where the gas price is in particular it seems at least on our numbers that the cash outspend could be about 50% of your capital.
Can you give us some idea as to how you see the out-spend and whether or not there is a plan in place to curtail further if things don't improve in the second half of the year? I'm just wondering if this is like a two-step process or if the budget is pretty much set for the year.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a good question Doug.
Actually I look at it that it's an ongoing process.
I don't think it's one step two-step or three-step.
I think that we will be managing that capital spend.
We will be looking at our activity levels looking at commodity prices the cash generating capability of the portfolio.
And continuing to look focusing on the long-term on how we drive the greatest value for the long-term.
So it will be an ongoing process.
Indeed we do see opportunities that we can continue to further reduce our capital.
And as I noted in some of the initial remarks we can also ramp it up very quickly if we see that opportunity.
So that balance of cash flow and CapEx spend for the year will be something that we're watching very closely and looking to optimize given the current market conditions.
Doug I don't want to press the point too much but as an order of magnitude maybe this is one for Nick.
But I think on your planning assumptions what would you expect the outspend to be for this year because you've done tremendous job in capital efficiencies? Obviously the commodities have all gone against you a bit here.
But you have  you came in on one of the key premises was to get that spending back within cash flow and I'm just curious is it marginal in your view or is it material for this year? I'm just trying to get a feel as to how you guys are thinking about it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the way I'm looking at is long-term value Doug.
And so the benefit that Chesapeake has today with our operating strength and our financial strength is that if we continue to invest above our cash flow based on commodity prices what you can trust to be confident is that has a long-term benefit.
And so obviously where it sits today we will be in a deficit spending situation.
But the point there is to continue to look at the long-term.
And so I hesitate to say well what are prices going to be in the latter part of the year? What's the recovery going to be? Well what you have is an operating and efficient capital machine that we can ramp up or ramp down accordingly.
So rather than guide to what a specific outspend would be I would just ask you to focus on what's been accomplished in 2014: the capital efficiency the improvements in our cash costs improvements in the capital program.
As Chris noted the improvements in capital efficiency whether it be cost or EUR across the portfolio are significant.
And so our focus is driving that value for the long term.
I guess my follow-up hopefully is I guess kind of related Doug.
It's on the rig allocation that you've laid out in the release.
It seems that the areas getting the least reduction if you like are the Haynesville and the Mississippi Lime.
I'm kind of having a tough time seeing that either of those is economic at $3 gas and $50 oil.
So can you help us understand why they're not seeing a greater decline in the context of that pursuit of value and whether or not there is  whether it's HBP obligations or midstream obligations what's driving the decision to hold the rig count relatively steady in those two areas? I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Southern Division</span></strong> Hi Doug.
This is Jason Pigott.
The Miss Lime again the teams have been just continually outperforming in that area.
It's one that every time we drill a well it continues to exceed our expectations.
Even at $3 gas and $50 oil we're getting 18% rate of returns out of the Miss Lime in our core.
So they're really strong returns.
That system what we do is we build out our water infrastructure as we go along so it's a little bit difficult to predict some of our expansion opportunities.
But the teams have continually outperformed the type curves.
Our Miss Lime we have a great position.
It's actually one of the best projects in our portfolio and one that we probably don't highlight enough.
With respect to the Haynesville as I mentioned the teams are really just crushing it there on costs.
We do have the minimum volume commitments there that we consider when we're making our economic decisions.
When you consider that we will pay those gathering fees whether or not we drill or produce a well or not those returns are 40% rate of return internally in the Haynesville so they're the most economic project that we would invest in our company right now.
So they're really strong.
The teams are continually pressing the limits there.
We've tried new things like stacked laterals that have come on line recently.
We've tried changes to our completion designs and those results have both been really positive and they've been positive in some of our areas that have historically had lower EURs.
So the technological innovation there has just been fantastic and it really is going to expand our inventory in the Haynesville.
Additionally we've just drilled our first two  well we've drilled the first and are drilling the second 7 500-foot lateral in the Haynesville so we should have those pads on line too.
And those generate very competitive rate of returns whether or not you consider those MVCs as sunk-costs or not.
And both of those programs they're one of the best investments we can make in the company which is why we continue to have those higher rig rates there and it's just  again the teams have done an outstanding job of turning both of those assets around in the last year.
All right.
I appreciate the answer.
I guess I'll take it offline but I'm kind of looking at the balance of outspend relative  from an 18% return in this environment when costs haven't fallen yet.
I guess I'm just trying to understand why the activity level doesn't fall further but I appreciate the answer guys.
Thanks very much indeed.
And our next question is from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Good morning guys.
Just a little on Doug's question.
In the areas could you talk about kind of lease obligations? Is there anything that come into play? I know most of your areas now  I've talked to Chris and Jason in the past.
I know most are HBP I'm just wondering.
Obviously looking at the Utica Haynesville Powder and the Miss is there anything that just significant lease obligation to speak of? Northern Division</span></strong> Neal this is Chris Doyle.
As we've said in the past there is still a little bit of HBP activity up in the Utica.
We'd see that as probably two to three rigs and that creates sort of that minimum rig count to continue to hold that acreage position.
No other acreage or meaningful acreage issues in the Marcellus or in Powder.
Okay.
And then Nick you'd mentioned about the service costs assuming some further decrease in there.
Are you able to continue to take advantage of service costs continue to fall as most predict? Will you continue to benefit from that or I'm just wondering or do you have some already termed out? I'm just wondering how you  what you all have for contract wise? Northern Division</span></strong> So this is Chris Doyle again.
Contract-wise we have  we will continue to move with the market up or down.
We don't lock in to fixed fees fixed rates.
We want to capture any further reductions and likewise for our suppliers.
If the market returns we'll see that increase as well.
We don't lock into any set of long-term prices for the most part.
Got it.
And then just lastly looking on the schedule on the guidance schedule at the NGL and the natural gas I guess estimates or differentials if you will.
Are those based on some of your midstream  I guess what I'm trying to get a sense of when I look at that natural gas at $1.70 to $1.90 a bit lower than the past.
Is that some of your obligations that are factored in there or maybe if you could just talk a little bit about how those are established? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's actually not too dissimilar than what we saw in 2014.
That includes basis differentials.
That includes gathering.
That includes long-haul transport.
So that's an all-in number and again it's pretty similar to what we saw last year.
What we've done is we spiked out the MVC to make sure that it's clear what that number is.
That'll be a fourth quarter expense just like it was this year.
And so the $1.70 to $1.90 is inclusive of all the other.
Again we are forecasting as I noted with curtailments being in place  given that we're forecasting curtailments in place for the full year we're forecasting weak Marcellus North Marcellus pricing for the full year 2015.
Thanks Nick.
Great color.
And our next is from Matt Portillo with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Matt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Two quick questions for me.
Just one follow-up on the Schedule A that you guys put out.
Could you just remind us what WTI and NYMEX price you're assuming as kind of the base there? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> It's roughly $55 and $3 for gas.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then I guess my second follow-up question in regards to your spending program as you think kind of longer term around capital allocation.
You mentioned kind of a number of times that as the commodity price warrants there's the potential to reaccelerate growth.
Is there a level we should be thinking about heading into 2016 and beyond that kind of triggers that reacceleration of capital both from an oil and gas perspective? And kind of where would you likely allocate capital first as you kind of think about adding rigs or laying rigs back into the market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think obviously we'll be targeting where we can derive the greatest value and so that's somewhat dependent on the commodities.
I mean obviously the opportunities that we have in the Eagle Ford to accelerate that program are very strong and then the gas opportunities going back to the Utica or additional rigs in the Haynesville provide us great flexibility and that's one of the benefits of our portfolio.
So we haven't put like an exact price target there Matt that we're saying you know at this price we're going to come back in because we have a number of strategic opportunities that we're evaluating and we'll continue to evaluate how do we drive the greatest value.
Northern Division</span></strong> One thing I would add there is with the Rockies this is an asset team that redefine themselves as well in 2014 prepared to run seven to nine rigs.
We're running three to four.
And so we will be ready to pull the trigger.
2014 saw not only successful expansion tests in the Niobrara aerially but also vertically with multiple benches being test but successful tests in the Parkman and the Sussex.
We had a successful test now in the Teapot well exceeding our expectations making over 400 barrels a day just a ton of stacked potential in that play.
I would see us looking to that area to potentially ramp up given the right price environment.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
And our next question is from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Thank you and good morning.
Doug you've seen more than one cycle on your lifetime how precious is liquidity this time around? I ask the question on weighing opportunities that way in an effort to get a better sense of how cautious you may be in the current environment.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a great question Dan.
And liquidity and the ability to have flexible options in this commodity price environment is extremely valuable.
And we feel that we are competitively positioned to execute with our existing portfolio for the long haul.
We feel like that we are also very strong with respect to having opportunities to improve and build upon the portfolio.
So that liquidity is absolutely paramount and key to giving us that flexibility.
Very good.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Great.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
I would like to highlight again that the accomplishments of 2014 the operating financial and efficiency improvements inside of Chesapeake Energy are a very solid foundation from which we will build upon despite the current commodity price environment.
I'm excited about our program.
I'm confident in the talent of our employees the quality of our assets.
And I believe 2015 will be a very strong year for Chesapeake as we continue to drive greater value for our shareholders.
Please follow-up with Brad and the IR team if you have any other questions.
I hope everyone has a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please stand by.
We're about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Q1 2015 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Sylvester.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2015 first quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the updated Investor Presentation that we posted to the website this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which consist of statements that cannot be confirmed by reference to existing information including statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and in other SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
So this morning's teleconference is going to be a little bit different than what we've done in the past.
About a year ago we had an Analyst Day here on campus and we thought today would be a good opportunity to do another deep dive like we did last year into how we are adding value here at Chesapeake.
So we're going to use this conference as sort of a teach-in on the efficiencies and the progress that we're making in all of our operating areas and the very detailed slides that we will be referencing can be found in the Investors section of our website at www.chk.com.
With me on the call today Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Executive Vice President of the Northern Division; and Jason Pigott our Executive Vice President of the Southern Division.
Doug will begin the call and then turn the call over to Jason and Chris for a thorough review of our operations.
And then Nick will wrap up the prepared remarks before we turn the teleconference over for Q&amp;A.
So with that thank you and I now turn the teleconference over to Doug.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Brad and good morning.
I trust you've seen our release issued earlier this morning and I hope you've had the opportunity to review the slides that will accompany this teleconference today.
Before we start I want to highlight the newest addition to our executive management team.
Announced earlier this week Frank Patterson will be joining us as Executive Vice President of Exploration Land and Subsurface Technology later this month.
As you are aware Chesapeake has had a strong history of exploration success which led to early identification and entering into multiple outstanding acreage positions in the U.S.
unconventional basins.
Frank brings tremendous experience and expertise to Chesapeake and I believe he'll be an excellent addition to our talented exploration land and technology staff.
I also want to thank John Kapchinske who served in this position previously and who's retired from the company.
His service and commitment were outstanding and we wish Kap and his family the very best in his retirement.
As Brad noted we are going to do things a little differently on this call and go into much deeper detail on an asset level giving you additional information regarding our progress and describing the strategies we are pursuing to grow value for our shareholders.
We've made significant progress as a company the past couple years executing on a value-driven strategy with world-class shale assets and extremely talented employees.
We continue to drive superior capital efficiency in our operations and we have achieved industry-leading low cash costs as measured by production and G&amp;A cost.
Our capital efficiency improvements are recognized through reduced costs and increased recoveries generating more investment opportunities with greater returns to our shareholders.
We still have lots of work to do but we continue to reduce legacy financial and legal complexities while maintaining a disciplined approach to our liquidity.
We're delivering on our commitments and you can expect that our strategy in investments will drive further long-term value for our shareholders.
Moving to our first quarter performance on slide four we generated adjusted earnings on a fully diluted basis of $0.11 per share with EBITDA of $928 million.
Production cost and G&amp;A expenses were down 5% year-over-year and down sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2014.
Daily production averaged 686 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the first quarter which is a 14% increase year-over-year.
Daily oil production for the first quarter was up 17% year-over-year.
As a result of the strong quarterly production we are increasing our 2015 production guidance range to 640 000 to 650 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our 2015 capital expenditures are on track with recent guidance as we continue to ramp down activity across our portfolio.
I'm excited for Jason and Chris to share further detail with you regarding our operating performance and capital efficiency improvements.
We will cover each of our major operating areas and you'll clearly see the strength of our portfolio and operating teams.
Every company is looking to improve capital efficiency and every company will tell you that they are the best.
But I have yet to see any organization post the high level of capital efficiency improvements that are being captured at Chesapeake.
High-quality rock combined with high-quality operations are outstanding attributes of the company.
Many companies have paid significant acquisition cost to gain entry into high-quality assets but through our capital efficiency we are organically increasing our inventory of drillable locations without the acquisition cost.
Jason will share with you the best example of this significant value creation in the Eagle Ford where we are adding 600 to 700 new locations following successful down-spacing tests and continued capital efficiencies.
He'll also share with you some exciting progress in the Haynesville area where we have recently placed a middle Bossier well online that has been producing over 12 million cubic feet of gas per day for over a month.
The middle Bossier could add an additional 200 to 400 locations located right in the middle of our Haynesville play offering significant surface infrastructure synergies.
This new opportunity is available today as a result of our outstanding capital efficiency.
Chris will follow Jason and share the huge value Chesapeake has created in the Utica and the exciting results we see in the Powder River Basin.
I want to highlight that I'm very proud of what we have done over the past two years to turn Chesapeake into a formidable competitor with an asset base that's unmatched.
For that which we can control we have performed outstanding and differential to the peer group.
We're progressing forward on our path to becoming a top performing E&amp;P company with thousands of locations and inventory to develop for many years to come.
I'm very confident in our teams and what we are going to achieve applying high quality operations to our strong portfolio and expanding our inventory of competitive investment opportunities.
The leadership and talented employees of Chesapeake are excited about the challenges and opportunities that we have today.
I'll now pass the call to Jason; Chris will follow; and then Nick with a review of our financial results.
And then we'll hopefully have time for a few questions.
Southern Division</strong> Thank you Doug.
In the Southern Division we continue to see great results from our efforts to increase our EURs by bringing down well cost.
Additionally this quarter we were able to see the impact of strategic decisions we made last year such as drilling longer laterals testing new stimulation techniques testing new pay horizons and focusing on our base productions.
These efforts have paid tremendous dividends as I would like to highlight today.
On slide six of our presentation I'd like to start off by highlighting some of the successes of our Eagle Ford asset.
I'm pleased to announce that our down-spacing tests have proved successful and have added 600 to 700 incremental locations to the development program.
These additions represent a material addition of high-value oil wells to our corporate inventory.
Furthermore the acquisition of these additional locations is essentially zero.
The drilling team broke several records in the quarter having drilled our deepest well with a total measured depth of just under 21 000 feet our fastest spud-to-rig-release time of 7.8 days and our lowest drilling cost well at $1.1 million.
We also drilled our first five wells with laterals greater than 10 000 feet which will help us to continue to drive further efficiencies as these wells provide an incremental cost reduction of 33% on a cost per foot basis.
These accomplishments are significant and I couldn't be more proud of the team.
However due to market conditions we continue to ramp down activity in the area.
We reduced our rig count from 20 rigs in January to a current count of seven with the expectation to get to just three rigs by July.
Strategically we are going to take advantage of this ramp down in activity to further enhance our development planning.
The teams are in the process of optimizing our field development and with the results of these successful tests in mind the top two priorities for the teams are first focusing on front loading the rig schedule with 10 000 foot wells and second moving forward with planning well locations based upon our recent successful down-spacing test.
We understand that our reduced rig count has given us a unique opportunity to optimize our development plan and we will take full advantage of it.
On slide seven we're excited to highlight in more detail the results of our down-spacing test.
Last year at our Analyst Day we identified several tests that we were planning for the year.
Our tests at the time showed limited interference as we went from 1 000-foot spacing to 500-foot spacing.
We commented at that time that we'd observed some interference in the wet gas area.
But we can now attribute that largely to differences in rock quality.
We placed a map at the bottom of the page that shows the location for the three tests that consisted of 330-foot spacing in our more oil prone areas and 500-foot spacing in our wet gas area.
The graphs on the right of the page are production graphs showing average cumulative oil production from each of these tests with a data set that includes over 50 wells.
The graphs highlight that we have no material reduction in performance thus far.
We will continue to monitor results but are moving forward with developing over 700 incremental locations with these tighter spacing assumptions.
These wells represent a material increase in our oil portfolio with virtually no incremental expense.
The addition of these wells brings our location count up from 3 800 remaining core locations to approximately 4 500 providing us plenty of opportunities to grow this play in the future.
Due to the success of these tests we are now planning some 250-foot spacing tests and also have plans for upper Eagle Ford tests in the fourth quarter both of which could help drive further value generation.
On slide eight I'd like to highlight some equally impressive accomplishments from our drilling team.
At first quarter the Chesapeake drilling team drilled a record lateral that measured nearly 10 300 feet in just under 12 days at a cost of $178 per foot.
In addition to this outstanding accomplishment four additional wells were drilled with laterals exceeding 10 000 feet.
Two of the wells had vertical depths before kicking off of 5 300 feet which make them especially challenging.
This accomplishment is significant as it proves up this technique for both our shallow and deep development areas.
The impact of this accomplishment to the Eagle Ford development program is substantial as we expect to increase per-well EURs 76% and reduce costs 33% per completed foot.
We will complete these wells in the second quarter of this year and anxiously anticipate the results.
Along this success the team is actively moving forward with high grading the rig schedule to frontload as many of these wells as possible.
Currently we estimate around 600 wells that could be drilled with this lateral length.
The Eagle Ford continues to be one of the flagship assets in our portfolio as we continue pushing the traditional economic limits through our technological and operational competitive advantages.
Similar to the Eagle Ford our Haynesville team is realizing the benefit of systematic strategies that were put into place over a year ago.
Slide nine of our presentation highlights how our focus has not been on making one specific area of the field commercial but attacking it as a whole.
Our top strategic priorities are testing new completion design drilling longer laterals and exploiting other pay horizons.
The map on the top right of this slide highlights this fact as it demonstrates how these tests blanket most of the field.
The team has broken the traditional models of development potential with our first two 7 500 foot lateral tests coming online in April.
Initial flow back from these wells is averaging over 17 million cubic feet a day.
Successful testing of our enhanced completion designs have opened up development in areas that were traditionally written off in both the Haynesville and the Bossier.
The combined result of these breakthroughs is a positive production response as our production increased 4% this quarter.
Similar to the Eagle Ford we continue to reduce our activity levels but the transformative nature of our well economics open this area for partnerships that could allow us to mitigate our minimum volume commitments.
At our last conference we indicated that longer laterals and enhanced completion techniques would transform the development of the field.
At the bottom of slide 10 we demonstrate our Haynesville well design evolution.
Today we can drill wells with 7 500-foot laterals for less cost than we could drill wells with 4 500-foot laterals just a short time ago.
There's no other company out there that I'm aware of that can boast a 42% improvement on a cost per completed foot basis while also enhancing well performance in such a short amount of time.
However the team is not done.
We now have our first 10 000-foot wells on the rig schedule with completions planned for October and we fully expect to continue this trend.
On slide 11 I'd like to go into a little more detail with respect to changes in our completion designs.
Last year we took a two-prong approach to well completions.
One focused purely on cost reductions and one on EUR enhancement.
The EUR enhancement techniques utilized reduced perf cluster spacing and treating smaller groups of cluster with each stimulation.
The cost reduction strategy focused on reducing gel loading and treating more clusters per stage.
Early production response was very similar but as time progressed the EUR enhancement techniques proved to be differentially successful.
On the map on the bottom left of the corner  left corner of this slide we show the location of our enhanced completions; on the bottom right we show the results.
The new stimulations have improved our EURs 20% to 30% and have opened up 90 000 acres for development as we have combined the best of both strategies which allow us to pump high intensity jobs at a significantly reduced cost.
On slide 12 we highlight how longer laterals can incrementally enhance performance gains we see from stimulation designs alone.
In April we brought on line our first two extended 7 500-foot lateral tests which also used our enhanced stimulation technique.
Both wells came on very strong one flowing 16.7 million cubic feet a day at 7 700 pounds and the other flowing 18.5 million cubic feet a day at 8 100 pounds.
After making the plot that we show on this slide we've opened the choke up on both wells.
Production rose the last two days up to19.6 million cubic feet a day with 7 200 pounds and 23 million cubic feet a day and 7 700 pounds respectfully (sic) [respectively].
We believe these wells transform the play as we know it.
If you were to look at a traditional contour map these wells would be located in the uneconomic 6 to 8 bcf per well contour interval.
These wells have shattered the limitations typically placed on Haynesville development.
However the Haynesville is not the only formation that can add value to our portfolio.
On slide 13 we are pleased to highlight the progress being made in the Bossier as well.
We've tested our new completion design on the Bossier and the production slot on the bottom left quadrant of the slide shows the production response from this new technique.
Production is up almost 4 million cubic feet a day on average from the two tests.
The relatively low historical development in the field leaves this play wide open for development with longer laterals.
The map located on the bottom right side of the page shows an early development plan for the Bossier.
Contours on this map are an interpretation of recovery on an mcf per foot of lateral basis with the sticks indicative of lateral length we plan to use in developing the field.
The bar graph on the top of the map shows a breakdown of lateral length and well count against the interpretation of deliverability.
As shown we have the ability to develop both 7 500-foot and 10 000-foot laterals.
As demonstrated by our Haynesville results we have high performance expectations for the Bossier as we move forward.
The Eastern Gulf team has been very aggressive with their strategy over the last year and it's great to see the fruit of their work transforming assets.
I'd like to move on now and highlight our Miss Lime and greater Mid-Continent asset starting on slide 14.
I strongly believe that our Mississippian Lime position is one of the most undervalued assets in our portfolio.
Despite perception the Miss Lime continues to be a steady outperformer in the portfolio as indicated by our 11% sequential production growth for the quarter.
Key strategies for this asset are to expand both laterally the limits of the field and vertically as we begin to test new formation across the entire Mid-Continent area.
With respect to expanding vertically we brought online multiple wells and new formations this quarter with three Oswego wells our best well making 630 barrels of oil per day and a test in the Hoxbar which came on at 715 barrels of oil per day.
We believe the stacked nature of these plays and our massive acreage position will provide significant new development potential in the future.
Focus on the base is also a top priority as nearly one-half our operated well count is in the Mid-Continent area.
On slide 15 it's really powerful as it shows how we continue to improve results every year.
The graph located on the top left shows our production performance by year.
In short it highlights that our wells are coming on stronger with shallower declines.
There are several key efforts that lead to consistently improving performance.
We have completed our drilling program to hold leases balance our exploitation and development drilling program by increasing focus on developing the core.
The benefit of these changes is clear as our EURs have improved 20% over the last two years to 335 000 barrels per well.
In addition to the solid performance increases the team continues to work the investment side as well.
Slide 16 highlights our continued improvements in well cost.
The bar graph at the bottom left portion of the page shows how capital costs continue to come down in the play as we take advantage of supply chain savings and continue to generate efficiency gains.
I could not be more pleased with team's performance as well costs have been cut nearly in one half over the last few years.
These cost reductions and EUR enhancements have driven our rate of return up to 39% as shown on the graph in the bottom right corner of the slide.
We currently estimate that there are over 560 locations remaining in our developable core with an additional 400 locations that offset the current core.
As mentioned previously we have nearly half of our operated wells in the greater Mid-Continent area.
As part of the Chesapeake's transformation we set up dedicated production teams focused strictly on enhancing base performance.
The graph on the bottom of slide 17 highlights gross base production in our northern Mid-Continent area.
Through the implementation of a proactive artificial lift program reducing downtime and maintaining a healthy workover and completion program we were able to improve our base decline rate from 2013 to 2014 by 20% taking it to 28%.
The teams developed a work over and recompletion post-appraisal system in 2014 which is paying huge dividends as we were able to learn from our historical decisions and high-grade our activity throughout the year.
As a result our base optimization programs delivered a rate of return over 100% for 2014.
We plan to continue building on this success in 2015 and have already started to see some additional reductions in our base decline rate.
In summary every key driver for the successful development of an asset is clearly demonstrated with our Mid-Continent development program.
Like all other assets this team has a continuous improvement culture which is continually delivering more value to the asset.
Additionally we have some exciting new tests from other productive horizons that will supplement the asset for years to come.
Now I'd like to speak more generally about an emerging base decline mitigation program.
Talk about re-frac potential in the industry has been on the rise.
On slide 18 if I could give you a very high level overview of our progress.
Within our retained portfolio Chesapeake has drilled 6 750 horizontal wells since 2004.
Of these wells nearly 4 600 were drilled prior to 2012 and we consider these wells under-stimulated compared to our current designs and based on their vintage.
The Barnett is one of the first major shale plays has the most easily identifiable concentrations of under-stimulated wells and was our first asset to focus on for our initial re-stimulation test.
To date we've tested nine wells in the play with two different techniques.
In the plot on the bottom right we highlight aggregate results from these tests which resulted in a production increase of nearly 10 million cubic feet per day.
These results are promising but are challenged by this price environment.
However we continue to high grade the opportunity set because the prize is significant.
Additionally we have seen production responses in the Haynesville that indicate a re-frac program should be successful in achieving incremental production.
The graph on the bottom right shows the production response to our parent wells before and after we have offset them with new drills.
To date 100% of our parent wells have seen an enhancement from offset drilling with increases in both pressure and rate.
Right now we are looking at all our base wells and working through the best way to recover the incremental reserves be it an offset drilling program or with re-fracs.
Overall we have some great highlights for you today.
We are attacking every asset strategically and today we see the results from those programs that were implemented over a year ago.
Even with the great progress we are highlighting today the teams are driving forward with new completion designs longer laterals and more ways to offset base decline.
It's a very exciting time for us in the Southern Division.
I will now turn the teleconference over to Chris Doyle to discuss the Northern Division results.
Northern Division</strong> Thank you Jason and good morning.
I'll walk through the tremendous progress that we continue to see in the Utica the Powder River Basin and the Marcellus.
We spoke a lot last year at the Analyst Day about building a culture of continuous improvement.
Like Jason I will point you to the tangible examples this morning in each of those areas of exactly that.
I'll also provide an update on our supply chain efforts through the first quarter.
Let me start on slide 20 with the Utica where we reported 10% sequential growth on the backs of outstanding operational and technical performance.
Currently running five drilling rigs 4.5 frac crews.
By the middle of the third quarter we plan to reduce that to two drilling rigs and 2.5 frac crews.
That will closely approximate the level of activity needed to maintain our lease position.
Our strategic focus for 2015 in the Utica is to continue leveraging our industry-leading operations driving further capital efficiency into this asset.
With our forecasted completions activity particularly in the first half of 2015 we'll reduce our drilled not completed well inventory by 40% by the end of the year.
You also see us continue to expand our core position with further testing and I'll share an exciting example from our recent efforts in doing exactly that.
Importantly 2015 is going to be a year that's focused on base optimization.
That was one of the keys to our first quarter outperformance in the Utica.
Turning to slide 21 I said all along that our drilling team has provided Chesapeake a competitive advantage for us in the Utica.
On this slide you see a recent comparison from IHS for our drilling performance against four of our closest competitors.
Based on their third-party view they judged Chesapeake to be 40% more efficient than the next closest driller.
That's in terms of drilling cycle times and penetration rate.
IHS reports our average cycle time to 13 days in this report and we continue to see and set efficiency records with our fastest spud to rig release coming in at 7.8 days and drilling multiple sub 10-day wells this quarter despite drilling longer laterals.
In fact we received a note this morning that our last well that we released set new records for the highest footage drilled per day at 1 900 feet and a lowest cost; the first well ever released at under $100 per food.
Simply put the best drilling organization in the basin is only getting better and that competitive advantage is allowing us to redeploy those savings into our completions.
And that's driving our type curves higher.
Slide 22 let's take a look at all the enhanced completions that we're seeing in the Utica.
If you compare our type curves today looking at the bottom right curve versus what we rolled out at Analyst Day we're seeing 20% higher EURs and that's driven primarily from these enhanced completions.
Our drilling targets are deliberate.
We're drilling longer laterals increasing the number of stages and tailoring our cluster spacing all depending on where we are on the field and all of this is based on our deep understanding of the Utica.
Check out the graph in the upper right-hand side of the slide.
Think about how different a Utica well delivered today looks from just a few years ago.
Lateral lengths have gone from under 5 000 feet to almost 8 000 feet this year a 25% increase from 2014 and we're pumping 2 to 3 times more stages and delivering more value for our company.
The key here is we're also delivering those results faster and cheaper.
As I mentioned on previous calls our completions team continues to outdistance the competition.
Last week our four frac crews averaged 8 stages a day per crew.
Each of our frac crews from two different service companies have exceeded 10 stages a day with the max coming in at 12 stages a day indicating that additional efficiencies are still available.
And we're not going to rest on our laurels.
We'll continue to seek and find those efficiencies.
Slide 23 is an awesome example of how we're expanding our core position in the Utica.
Let me share with you some of the results that we're seeing in Columbiana County.
This is as you can see on the map on the bottom right a county that is outside what most would view as our core position.
The graph just above the map tells a completely different story.
Early well performance based on the first nine wells in this lean area outperformed our type curve but interestingly and remarkably the recent wells those three in green have outpaced those tests by 50%.
Main driver here is not necessarily just completions but it's also our optimized targeting based on our seismic and geologic interpretation that's continued to evolve and sharpen over the past year.
And here is a concrete example of a G&amp;G team driving value improving an outside area from our traditional core position to a 25% rate of return based on $3.25 [gas] and $65 [oil].
Finally on slide 24 I mentioned our focus on optimizing base production.
This slide shows exactly that.
The graph on the right shows the 2015 base well set held static beginning in January.
The green line depicts our initial base forecast.
And as you can see the wells have blown that away leading to a new forecast in red.
In fact you can see that these wells these base wells are actually inclining over the past couple months.
During the first quarter thanks to better winter preparedness the team reduced downtime by 60% another key factor in our first quarter outperformance.
Just as impressive though are the team's tireless efforts throughout the quarter to limit midstream disruptions lower line pressure drive pressure maintenance and choke management programs.
Final processing we spoke to you last year expansion at Leesville in November in combination with compression expansions in December and again this quarter have allowed us to increase production from these existing wells and reduce our base decline significantly.
The wedge between the green line and the red line is a sustainable improvement in our operations and our value delivery.
Our industry-leading Utica team obviously extends well beyond our drilling and completions teams.
It includes our G&amp;G reservoir land marketing production teams but most importantly includes the strongest field organization in the basin.
At today's strip prices that team has pushed our Utica NAV to approximately $7 billion up sharply year-over-year.
Now turning to the Powder River Basin on slide 25 we also reported 10% sequential growth.
Consistent with previous calls the resource potential in this basin is huge and continues to expand with successful tests up and down the strat column.
Multiple stack plays push our gross resource potential to over 2 billion barrels equivalent and 3 000 potential locations.
That's up huge from last year's Analyst Day.
And with the pullback in commodity prices our established federal units have allowed this team to dramatically reduce activity prudently dropping down to one drilling rig and one frac crew to maintain our core position.
Our limited 2015 activity is going to focus on driving additional capital efficiencies mainly in our Niobrara development while also continuing to test this prolific basin with significant focus on progress being made in Sussex.
Slide 26 some new information for you guys.
We've shared with you previous tests.
We've never shown you a type curve.
Let me start by highlighting the most recent Sussex test that clocked in at approximately 2 000 equivalent barrels per day 65% of that oil.
In the first quarter we set multiple drilling records.
This is new information from Chesapeake.
Most recent being a spud-to-rig-release record at 14.1 days that delivered $1 million in savings.
Like other areas we continue to push our laterals longer.
You see that we've got a 9 000-foot or nearly 9 000-foot lateral completed 30 stages.
We're continuing to outperform our high expectations however and that's what I want to focus in on.
Look at the type curve at the bottom right-hand side of the slide.
We were expecting going into this year an 800 mboe Sussex-type well.
That's the blue line.
The black line is our actual performance based on over a year's worth of production.
That historical performance was fully 100% over our type curve and increases are expected Sussex rate of returns from 20% at the type to 50% at $3.25 [gas] and $65 [oil].
In order to get a 10% rate of return the breakeven oil price on this Sussex is $42.50.
Huge huge performance in the Powder River Basin.
Let me turn to the Niobrara where we currently project about 20% higher type curves compared to what we discussed at last year's Analyst Day.
While we continue to optimize completions and drill longer laterals the team is using the pullback to continue testing core extension not only laterally going back to areas with our new efficiency but also vertically.
And we're looking at our first stacked laterals that we mentioned on previous calls.
Those should be on production this quarter.
Finally turning our attention to the Marcellus in Northeast Pennsylvania.
As we shared on our previous call we began curtailing about 250 million a day gross [cubic feet of gas] late last year in late December due to weak in-basin gas pricing.
We continue to maintain the production levels from that time and you see our sequential growth is pretty well flat.
And we're now curtailing about 500 million a day gross.
Given that ability to rapidly respond to potential market strength we quickly and prudently reduced activity to one drilling rig and one frac crew to maintain our lease position.
We plan to maintain production with  at that reduced activity but stand ready to respond to what the market tells us regardless of production impacts.
And as in previous years our focus in 2015 is driving the most value for the Marcellus as efficiently as possible.
Armed with our new and demonstrated operational efficiency in the basin the team is rethinking re-examining and going back to test limits of our lower Marcellus position as well as testing the upper Marcellus.
While some of this activity has been deferred in 2015 we have ample tests coming our way to validate what this asset will deliver in the coming decades even with minimal capital investment.
Slide 29 is all about the drilling organization in the Marcellus.
I'm part of the team that absolutely redefined this asset last year.
This was a team that was stuck in the 25 26-day cycle time quagmire and we used last year to attack every single segment of the drilling operation whether it was the vertical section drilled on air or the curve the lateral every flat time in the well path.
My end result is a cycle time reduction of over 50% since 2012.
But more impressively and just a huge indicator of a culture of continuous improvement the team further reduced cycle times this quarter by 30% compared to last year.
And drilled two back to back sub 10-day wells as well setting records.
Our rigs today are 150% more efficient.
Costs are 40% lower compared to just a few years ago.
And you think about accomplishing this in the sixth year of development is just simply staggering.
It's a true team effort focused drilling organization working with the business unit and supported by our Operations Support Center to get it done.
Slide 30 is we've touched on most of these assets.
We use those drilling savings redeploy them to drill longer laterals to optimize completions and the end result is higher EURs by about 20%.
The table on the bottom right lays out an extremely compelling story and we show you what we were telling you back in 2011 in 2013 and what we're telling you today in 2015.
Every year IPs are going up EUR is going up thanks to longer lateral lengths and stage counts going up as well.
All the while capital has trended down significantly.
The end result is the graph that you see just above the table.
The completely redefined investment thesis as I've said in the past.
What that means is a 30% rate of return could be delivered back in 2011 assuming a $3 realized gas price; that's cut in half this year $1.50.
So how do you explain such a rapid enhancement in asset performance so many years into development? The same way you explain 40% to 65% capital efficiency gains in every single area in which we deployed capital last year.
The answer obviously is the strength of our technical teams in each of those areas along with such industry-leading support organizations as our Operations Support Center or OSC that I mentioned previously.
The OSC is manned by 100 industry experts drilling superintendents geosteerers geologists engineers lease operators and analysts.
OSC is Chesapeake's central command center.
It's like NORAD in Oklahoma City.
But more than just monitoring and supporting the OSC links our teams executing out in the field with real-time data analytics industrial analytics and tactical performance-enhancing adjustments.
The OSC opened its doors back in 2013 but the full extent of its value proposition wasn't fully realized or demonstrated honestly until last year in the Northern Marcellus.
Now what happened? By identifying optimal drilling parameters based on historical drilling data every single well had a well plan based on what it took to drill the fastest best most competitive well.
And any and all trouble time was analyzed evaluated all events in the past and so the OSC was able to forewarn our drilling organization including the drillers on the rig floor when they were either outside the optimal drilling window or they were headed for a potential issue.
The result was optimized drilling performance and elimination of downtime events.
That's how you reduce cycle times from 26 days to 12 days in the sixth year of development.
Beyond minimizing trouble time and ensuring optimal drilling conditions the OSC helps our asset teams maintain geologic target integrity push lateral lengths further than ever before all to deliver the most capital efficient well possible and that's demonstrated in each of our business areas.
Building on this success we continue to expand the OSC service to all of our assets and to all aspects of our operations including completions reductions and fluid logistics.
I'm confident that the OSC will help our teams reduce waste and optimize our base production yielding more efficient growth and maximum value for Chesapeake.
Finally let me provide an update on our supply chain efforts.
As discussed in our last call we've been busy aggressively targeting significant reductions in service costs that better align with the current view on commodity prices.
This quarter the teams have already captured 15% savings compared to 2014.
The graphic on the right shows pricing adjustments have ranged anywhere from 8% up to nearly 40% depending on the category.
And also on the expense side we haven't talked about it a whole lot but we capture about 5% savings or $0.10 a boe.
And we'll anticipate that those savings will begin rolling in through actuals this quarter.
My next message is this: we're not done.
We continue to target all categories to ensure any and all supply chain savings are realized for Chesapeake.
We continue to focus however on more than just price.
As we said in the past it's all about service delivery.
We realize that in our industry-leading efficiencies are only possible working hand in hand with the very best service providers.
Finally let me be absolutely clear; these savings are solely from supply chain efforts.
They do not include design changes.
They do not include efficiency gains.
That should enhance capital efficiency by a further 5% to 10% by the end of the year.
Both Jason and I have spent the last 30 minutes showing you tons of examples where the teams are already exceeding that expectation.
Let me now turn the call over to Nick Dell'Osso to further discuss the quarter and update guidance.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thank you Chris.
I'm very proud of how we're executing our business plan.
As Doug mentioned our first quarter demonstrated strong production and cash cost moving lower.
The first quarter also showed our capital spending was in line with what we forecasted while basis differentials particularly in the Northeast were better than we had expected.
As we continue to deliver gains in capital efficiency current commodity prices are dictating to the industry that we much also be flexible with regard to our capital spending levels.
As shown on slide 33 our Q1 capital spending was right in line with our quarterly guidance and we are reducing our activity in capital spending rate for the remainder of the year as previously forecast.
We started 2015 with around 70 rigs running including a few spud rig and averaged 54 rigs during the first quarter.
Today we're running 26 rigs in total and we're forecasting to drop to 14 rigs during the third quarter.
As a result we are already seeing dramatic reduction in our capital spending rate.
Our capital spending on drilling and completions alone in January was approximately $490 million.
By the time we get to June we are projecting around $200 million in D&amp;C capital.
So while we are doing amazing things in the fields with our assets as shown today we still believe the prudent approach in the near term is to reduce activity and preserve liquidity and flexibility in the current price environment.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remain very strong with $2.9 billion in cash and an undrawn credit facility with capacity of $4 billion.
And a net debt to total capitalization ratio of 37% or 35% when excluding the non-cash ceiling test write down in the first quarter.
Just as our CapEx was significantly higher in the first quarter than it will be in the remaining quarters of the year as we execute our planned activity reduction we saw the largest cash spending levels this quarter that we expect to see in 2015 as well.
We remain on track to meet or beat our revised budget targets we laid out a few weeks ago and continue to aggressively defend our liquidity position which we see as a valuable tool in the current commodity price environment.
I'd like to turn your attention now to slide 34 which lays out our gas differentials from 2014 through a 2016 sensitivity.
We put this together to address the sensitivity seen from low capital development levels and the cost of service agreements we have through our gas gathering contracts.
As you can see the gathering and transportation component of gas differentials isn't all that sensitive to movements in development in the short term and may decrease through production mix and growth in certain areas.
Given we are well ahead of having a budget for 2016 and the intent of this exercise is to test the impact of low development we ran this 2016 sensitivity assuming the low level of fourth quarter 2015 capital expenditures continue throughout 2016.
We show overall differentials improving in 2016 primarily due to improvements in the forward curve for basis at our sales points.
We work closely with Williams on mutually beneficial opportunities to improve our gathering costs and are pleased with their commercial approach since taking over complete ownership of the business.
The recent operating strength of our assets the expansion of our core areas the identification of additional economic zones and the potential for future additional business with Williams all contribute to potential opportunities for improvements in our rates.
Lastly on slide 35 we are truing up our production guidance for a strong first quarter performance and otherwise reiterating our outlook.
We are extremely pleased with the performance this indicates for Chesapeake during this low commodity price environment but are pushing hard for further improvements across the board: production differentials capital and operating costs as you heard throughout our call today.
We are committed to generating additional EBITDA as a company and we are working hard to expand our margins both on the cost side and the revenue side of our business.
Our teams' efforts in the areas of recompletions and more efficient workovers are great examples of ways we are doing this with limited capital investment in the current environment.
We will continue to focus on reducing our leverage both financial and operating through additional sales of non-core assets and through working to improve the non-basis side of our business particularly in gas.
Overall I am very confident in our ability to deliver greater value for our shareholders and I'm looking forward to that as 2015 unfolds.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call over to the operator for questions.
At this time we will start the question-and-answer session.
And we'll take our first question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Morning Brian.
You've highlighted on the call the opportunity set in the portfolio and the cost efficiencies you are seeing and slide 33 which you went through talks to the quarterly CapEx reduction as activity comes down.
Can you clarify of the reduction that you see in coming quarters to CapEx how much is related to activity reduction versus supply chain cost deflation versus the operational efficiencies and improvements? Or in other words are all the cost reductions that you talked to in this presentation assumed in the going-forward CapEx program and in your revised production guidance or is there an element of upside? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks for the question Brian.
The principal reduction in the capital program is related to activity.
But as you'd expect with this type of efficiency gains that we're recognizing we also expect our capital to improve going forward because of those efficiencies.
And as Chris noted and will like to comment here the supply chain continues to be something that we further optimize and are gaining significant ground on as we work with our high quality vendors and contractors.
Northern Division</span></strong> Yeah the thing I'd add Brian is one I'm very proud of what our asset teams and supply chain delivered in the first quarter.
But I'm going to sit here in three months and six months and tell you how much more proud I am of additional supply chain savings that they'll capture.
None of that is built into the forward forecast.
Efficiency gains cycle time improvements that we continue to deliver every single quarter not built into that forecast.
And so I think what you'll see is the same thing you've seen from this company over the past couple of years is just continuous improvement quarter over quarter.
But we're not going to reflect that in the forecast.
And so I would say yes there is some upside there.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then separately and this question may be a little bit unfair but as you've gone through areas like the Haynesville or the Barnett or the Utica the Eagle Ford and found some of these efficiencies what would you say is proprietary to Chesapeake versus what you think we should expect out of the rest of industry? I wonder a little bit because that dovetails into whether consolidation opportunities make sense and where you stand on that to bring some of these efficiencies to other assets.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Brian.
I don't consider it an unfair question at all.
I think it's a great question.
When we see what's taking place out there I would tell you that the first point to the quality of the rock in these assets and then point to the innovation and the creativity of our employees.
And as with the rest of the industry and the improvements we see at some point in time all of the creative ideas bleed over into other assets but the strength of our portfolio is the quality of the rock and the technical expertise and the way we're driving synergies and value from these assets is something that you can continue to expect from Chesapeake.
So whether the rest of the industry adopts it I'm not really concerned about because we're leading it and we'll continue to lead it.
I guess does that create an M&amp;A opportunity that you see or is the valuations and then your own balance sheet funding gap just too prohibitive right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
It absolutely does.
And we're doing things that others can't.
And because of that leadership on the operations and capital efficiencies side that creates a lot of opportunity and we have the teams that can execute that.
Northern Division</span></strong> The one thing I would add just specific to the Utica is as we said last year we've been there longer than everybody else.
But guys we are not just six months out.
This is years into the development.
The thing that is proprietary is our track record of continuous improvement and companies can talk about how they're going to deliver what we have been delivering and that's great.
We have delivered it pure and simple.
Now on the acquisition front I think coring up a position in the Utica would make some sense but those companies many of them are valued as if they will have Chesapeake operating them tomorrow and we have yet to see that in many cases.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning Doug.
Say...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Neal.
Inc.</span></strong> Again a lot  on your slides you guys talked about a lot of these enhancements you're doing I mean the longer lateral just the improvements on the completions in general.
My questions are around that I guess for you or Chris or Jason and the guys.
Is this now focusing on more proppant overall? I mean are you doing the proppant with the  just different mix? Maybe if you could just talk about the enhanced completions a little bit.
I know it's a little bit on Brian's call but just kind of what you all are doing and how different is that like you're doing in the Eagle Ford versus some of these other basins? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Neal.
Well the first I'll say is that around the completions the Chesapeake is an industry leader in interventionless completions.
And we are working closely with all the suppliers.
We are trying new things testing new things.
And I'm very excited about it.
I think there's a ton of potential yet further.
And I'll just ask Chris and Jason to weigh in on that because it's a  it really is an advantage that we continue to pursue and see as very competitive.
Southern Division</span></strong> This is Jason.
And just to echo what Doug said.
I mean one of the things that's our competitive advantage is our people and the efficiency that they're able to achieve on our wells because they look at every hour that we spend on location and how to optimize it.
Completion strategies in general we're testing tighter perf clusters for Haynesville for example.
We've reduced all the way down to 20-foot between perf clusters so they're tight.
And I think that's one of the key things that gets that lower quality rock to help.
There's some other things they're doing there.
Also sand increasing our sand per foot but we  the thing that we  is also an advantage for us is we don't ever get satisfied with what we do.
So we've tested sand limits up until the point where it's a diminishing point of return and then we'll dial it back to the sweet spot.
That was part of our EUR enhancements discussions that I talked about.
We're testing new things in every field as well in Eagle Ford.
They're going to start testing some of the designs that we've got going in the Haynesville this month in fact.
Also we've tried a new completion design this week that they just finished.
It's a 90-stage job on the Eagle Ford.
So I think part of it is not being satisfied with where you are today and just continuing to press the limits in every single field that we operate.
Northern Division</span></strong> Hey Neal this is Chris.
I think you mentioned is it sand is it something else? I think anybody can go out and pump 3 000 pounds a foot and get a better well.
We've seen that in most of our areas but our focus really is as Jason highlighted how do you optimally stimulate a two mile long lateral? And so what you've seen as laterals have pushed out what you've also seen is the stage count per foot has increased significantly as we're  when we talked about the cluster spacing.
As we're continuing to work in the lab and out in the field making sure that we're optimally stimulating the entire length of that lateral and not just putting it away in a stage here or a stage there but throughout the length of the casing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Another thing Neal I think is kind of important to note that there is a lot of non-technical popular misconception around that everybody can just do the same thing but the technical  inherent technical rock properties petrophysical properties that make a high quality asset create a differential for value creation.
And what you're seeing is as Chris noted others can go mimic and copy Chesapeake.
I mean that kind of stuff's taken place for years.
And you can go do that but it doesn't necessarily mean you're going to get the same type of results.
It has to be a combination of the operations the technology and the quality of the asset.
And those were many of the things that we were really trying to highlight for the investment community today.
Northern Division</span></strong> Obviously the proof is in the pudding.
It's not just about completion.
It's also about the other aspects of our business and the other teams as we highlighted in Columbiana County.
This has to start showing up in our results.
As you've noted in the Utica it is.
And you've seen in other areas of the company you're starting to see that.
So I'm excited not only how far we've come in the two years but I'm excited to see what happens for the rest of this year.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great details guys.
Two more quick ones if I could.
Doug just your thoughts on M&amp;A here either international or just anything you're seeing around the basins.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I still think there's a lot of opportunity and the company is still focused and looking for either bolt-on or strategic opportunities Neal.
And we will be continuing to look at that and accretive opportunities that we can apply this horsepower and skill to new assets.
I think one of the things we really are trying to demonstrate for everyone is that it doesn't matter what asset that Chesapeake is focused on.
We're going to drive value from it.
And we definitely have some issues that we're working on that are a remnant of the past.
But if we focus on the strengths of this company and acquire some additional assets you can expect similar type of performance.
I also would like to highlight that I think it's really important many companies have paid billions of dollars for an acquisition into oil in the United States.
And we organically today are making it public about some of this technology and improvements that we see in our assets adding 600 to 700 locations in the Eagle Ford adding locations in other areas because of our capital efficiency seeing the improvements in the Powder River.
These are dynamite things guys.
Dynamite things.
And you can go out and pay $2 billion $4 billion to try to pick up that type of inventory location but the strength of the capital efficiency is driving great value and will continue to drive great value for our shareholders.
I just think it's a great opportunity.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just lastly Doug or for you for the guys just on takeaway contracts.
I know in the past you've mentioned I know in the Haynesville kind of what that extra costs you on what you all are required to take away.
Anything Appalachian wise or anything else? Are some of those now going away? Or where do you guys sit on some of these takeaway contracts that you once had? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah thanks for asking Neal.
And Nick and I will both comment on it.
It's something we continue to work on.
And as you all know we are partnered with Williams and we are pursuing win-win solutions that involve not only the efficiencies or the new opportunities that we're looking at such as the Bossier and the improvements in the rates from the Haynesville wells that we're seeing.
We're also looking at base optimization opportunities looking at that where we can extend contracts potentially and we're very pleased with the commercial approach that Williams has in looking for opportunities for win-win solutions.
And Nick do you want to add any additional color? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> You asked about has any of our takeaway gone away in the Northeast.
And so just to answer that question directly you'll see in our Q in our commitments footnote a decrease in takeaway and part of that is or the big driver of that is a transfer of a portion of our ATEX line to Southwestern associated with the Southern Marcellus transaction.
So in addition to that we look for opportunities for valuable takeaway from the northeast part of the Marcellus where we're currently curtailing production.
So those opportunities haven't proven yet to be actionable in a way that we see value added.
So we look at our portfolio of takeaway all the time and as Doug noted we work with Williams on improving our gathering contract cost but we also look for accretive ways to better market our gas and get better pricing for it.
I think we have a good portfolio of takeaway in the northeast.
We think it gives us a competitive advantage for our long haul out of the basin and if opportunities present themselves to add to that we would do so.
Recently there have not been any that have been value accretive.
Inc.</span></strong> Great details.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Neal.
And we'll take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning guys.
Just had a quick question first on the Sussex of kind of how do you ramp activity levels there or is that really a possibility just given the surface constraints? Northern Division</span></strong> Sure David.
This is Chris.
It's absolutely a possibility.
I think the team focus right now is understanding as we're early in the development of the Sussex.
We only have a handful of wells but my gosh they're performing phenomenally well.
So as we're closely watching the performance there we've got some new longer laterals coming up.
We have some spacing tests in the Sussex; we're going to test those.
We'll be ready to ramp up given some market strength but as I indicated breakeven price of $42.50 is pretty strong based on what we've seen over the past year.
So the team is actively working and getting prepared.
Remember we were planning to run seven to nine rigs this year so we've got some permits and we'll continue to prepare to ramp up when the time is right.
I'm trying to  what is the  why isn't the right time with that rate of return and permits for seven to nine rigs may be the better way to ask that.
Northern Division</span></strong> Well I think when we look at that's more of a corporate portfolio discussion.
Again we're kind of early into the Sussex as we try to get to cash flow neutrality as quickly as possible.
That was one area that just based a couple months ago wasn't garnering more capital.
It could very well do so between now and the end of the year.
And then on slide 33 that is helpful Nick.
As you think about your fourth quarter cash flow CapEx and just kind of the implied trajectory for both into 2016 can you kind of give us a snapshot into how you're thinking about things either Doug or Nick.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So we're obviously haven't put anything out David on 2016 but what we're seeing is greater productivity on a per well basis.
Why we are slowing down our activity in the latter part of 2015 I hope that everyone recognizes one of our core strengths and attributes is the speed in which that we can ramp back up and the confidence that we can with greater pricing we can further accelerate our programs.
I also think that it's good to note that if you hear  you're driving down a road and you hear that song "All About That Bass " you ought to think about Chesapeake.
We've got a huge huge base optimization program and we are focused on that.
That's going to add incremental volumes and we see good opportunities there.
So there's  looking forward in 2016 we'll continue to execute on our capital efficiency which drives greater productivity on a per well basis.
We've got the base coming in and we see the ability to ramp back up accordingly with the speed and strength that Chesapeake's historically known for.
I guess is there any update to your Howard Weil presentation on quarterly progression of production? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> No.
There's really no update there.
I mean we upped our guidance to reflect the strong first quarter production.
That's going to have its tail effect through the year.
And so the full year comes up as a result of that.
The general trajectory there is the same.
It'll be muted a bit towards the end of the year there on how we were showing that quarter-over-quarter to the positive there Dave.
But overall just by that a little bit is all we would say at this point.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And we'll take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Good morning gentlemen.
Doug I do like your taste in music unfortunately.
Real quickly on the Williams comments that you made I was just wondering if you could maybe elaborate on potential win-win scenarios to reduce some NDCs.
And you also talked about maybe bringing in some partners in the Haynesville.
But just wanted to see is your thoughts are you talking to Williams today and then maybe some opportunities to reduce those liabilities over time? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a  we know that this has been a  this is obviously a focal point for Chesapeake as we want to try to further improve our competitiveness.
And just would highlight again that everything that we're looking at doing is to find win-win opportunities with Williams and the contracts that we have.
We do know that bringing in additional parties on those systems can be helpful.
Our capital efficiency as I noted earlier is helping generate more volumes.
And as we look for recompletions re-fracs all those kind of things it will be very helpful in that respect.
And we will continue to look for whether it'd be through contract extensions or other opportunities we are making progress in that respect.
And while we don't have the specifics to share today we're encouraged with the commercial approach and think that we'll find ways to help improve the competitiveness there.
Okay.
And Doug just some thoughts or Nick on how  what were differentials in the first quarter and how do you expect that to shake out for the rest of the year on the gas side? I know you've given guidance for $1.80 at the midpoint in terms of this.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah so differentials were strong in the first quarter.
And again the difference relative to our guidance or relative to our expectations was really in the Northeast.
So we feel good about where that sits in the first quarter headed towards the full year within our range.
The basis for the summer remains pretty questionable.
We've hedged some of that.
But so as a result of that we really haven't wanted to change our guidance but first quarter was ahead of our internal expectations around basis.
We feel good about that.
Overall for the year again we always focus on trying to find the best outlets for hydrocarbons and particularly in gas.
We feel good about where we're headed.
We continue to try to look for opportunities to hedge better basis prices when we can.
We've done a little bit of that.
So optimistic there.
Okay.
Just final question.
In terms of your year-end rig count outlook pretty wide range of 9 to 19.
Doug what would push you towards the upper end of that range versus the lower end of the range? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the capital efficiencies are continuing to be really outstanding.
And so I think that the range is still good.
But right in the middle of that is probably where we'll be and in the 14-15 range.
And just depending on what we see in terms of pricing and the competitiveness of the projects we're investing in we'll adjust that and provide more information on it as the year goes on.
But I think it's a good estimate right now just to assume that we'd be in the middle of that range.
Okay thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Scott.
If I could ask go to slide 38 where you've got your activity levels again throughout the year and at the end of the year and just looking at the allocation of rigs by play can you give us a sense of how you step back and do corporate capital allocation? Because when you look at this and you see some of the returns that you've got in the Eagle Ford the Utica comparatively to the Mississippian Lime there's a little disconnect.
And especially when you look at the Marcellus the returns you're showing on the Marcellus at current prices are just off the charts yet you're reducing activity there.
How do you allocate that appropriately in your view? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So the capital allocation process is very detailed and we spend a lot of time with that.
Keep in mind that as we are optimizing our liquidity and activity that we're also very focused on how we are improving the competitiveness of each of these plays and each have specific inherent things that we're trying to accomplish.
Your reference to the Marcellus obviously is it's fantastic and in unbelievable position up there but you also have takeaway issues that are in the basin there.
And so we're  with the ability to deliver more volume in the Marcellus we'd absolutely put more rigs there.
The things that we're testing and improving upon in the Mississippian Lime give us a lot of confidence and we're going to continue to drive down our cost and make that play more competitive which make it very attractive to us.
Haynesville same thing.
Haynesville has got a lot of questions from the investment community as to why we went back there.
This over a year ago when we first went back into the play and we're just crushed the costs there and made it extremely competitive and continue to see further improvements.
So it's really more of a balanced portfolio approach.
These are all really strong assets that have different specifics that require optimization either through technology or efficiencies that we're looking to try to achieve for a long-term value.
So we just want to focus on one area and not pay attention to how we develop the whole portfolio for the long term then you could potentially say well we just put the rigs all in one area but that's not what we're doing.
And I think the information shared here on the asset level of all the different technical things capital efficiency synergy supply chain all those things are pointing to why this high quality portfolio is undervalued.
Okay.
And I appreciate that.
And then I guess the thing that really stands out would be for example the Mississippian play where I kind of wonder that more of a near-term capital efficiency versus say a better longer term return that gets a little bit more activity relative to the long term returns in that play today.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it's just a function of how we're managing the whole portfolio I think Scott is the best way to describe it.
It's  and we have yet  we started the year with a higher number of rigs there.
We can put more back.
And it's really a function of managing our liquidity and managing the portfolio for the long haul.
Okay okay.
Thanks.
And one real quick one obviously you made a great acquisition with Frank coming over to the team.
Obviously his experiences have got a lot of international offshore bias to it.
Should I read into that any way or is it just a strong recruit? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a  I think that Frank Patterson is world-class.
And I think you can read into it basically whatever you would like to.
We're going to continue to optimize and look to grow organically our domestic portfolio.
And as I've stated earlier if we see opportunities elsewhere in the world we'll look at those.
What's great is Frank has that experience and expertise.
But I wouldn't read in it that we're looking to go jump off into international at any point in time.
We have a great portfolio.
We're seeing good growth from it with our capital efficiency and we have many opportunities that our exploration teams are working on at present that are domestic.
And we will continue to look for opportunities to expand and grow the company elsewhere.
Thanks for that.
Appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thanks a lot.
And we'll take out next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo Securities.
Caller your line is open.
Please check your mute function.
Caller your line is open.
We are unable to hear you.
Please check your mute function.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> All right.
Well I think we're out of time anyway operator.
So if you don't mind I'll just go ahead and call the call to a close.
We spent a lot of time today talking about our continued progress in the company.
And I'm hopeful that this additional information will help improve your modeling and perform to expectations at Chesapeake as we continue to improve.
I think that resonating throughout this presentation is that the continued value on the things that we can control we're executing in an outstanding fashion.
And also highlight that we are not done.
My confidence in our ability to execute is very high.
And I just would encourage that if you have subsequent questions about our performance on any of the assets or anything else regarding the company and our plans for 2015 please reach out to Brad.
Thank you all and have a great day.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Q2 2015 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Sylvester.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2015 second quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the updated Investor Presentation that we posted to the website this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking comments which consist of statements that cannot be confirmed by reference to existing information including statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and in other SEC documents.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place any undue reliance on such statements.
With me on the call today Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Executive Vice President of the Northern Division; Jason Pigott our Executive Vice President of the Southern Division; and Frank Patterson our Executive Vice President of Exploration.
Doug will begin the call and then turn the call over to Chris and Jason for a review of our operations.
Then Nick will wrap up the prepared remarks before we turn the teleconference over for Q&amp;A.
We also have some new slides that we will be referencing and these can be found in the Investors section on our website at www.chesapeake.com.
So with that thank you and now I will turn the conference over to Doug.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Brad and good morning.
I trust you've had the opportunity to review our press release and for your reference we have the slides that Brad noted that will accompany this teleconference.
To begin we successfully executed our program as planned in the second quarter and continued to make significant improvements as a company.
During this challenging period of low commodity prices Chesapeake is leading with our strengths which include; low cost operations capital efficiency a diverse portfolio of high quality assets and talented employees.
These strengths provide the company flexibility and huge optionality today and in the future.
I am confident in our ability to be competitive and we are focused on driving value for our shareholders regardless of commodity prices.
Moving to our quarterly performance as shown on slide three our daily production averaged 703 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the second quarter which is a 13% increase year-over-year adjusted for asset sales.
As a result of our strong production we are increasing our 2015 production guidance range to 667 000 to 677 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or by 4% compared to our previous guidance.
The strong production performance in the first six months of the year positions the company to enter 2016 at a higher rate than previously forecasted.
We currently expect our 2015 exit rate to be around 660 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is outstanding when you consider our ramp down in activity across our portfolio and our present voluntary curtailment of approximately 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day on a net basis.
We have a track record of improving capital efficiency and our cost structure has improved as we demonstrate our low cost leadership.
Second quarter LOE and G&amp;A cost were $5.40 per barrel of oil equivalent down approximately 8% year-over-year.
In addition our 2015 second quarter drilling and completion capital expenditures came in as planned and we expect to stay within our full year CapEx guidance of $3.5 billion to $4 billion.
We understand that our debt structure and gathering commitments add to the challenges of the commodity price environment.
There are several questions out there in the market such as can Chesapeake generate sufficient cash flow to weather this storm? And can the portfolio and operational strengths overcome these significant obstacles? The answer is definitively yes.
We have tremendous flexibility and optionality given the breadth and diversity of our portfolio.
I came to Chesapeake two years ago because I considered it to be the biggest challenge and thus the biggest opportunity in the industry.
We've made significant improvements in our capital efficiency cost structure and balance sheet and I'm as determined and confident today as then that we will become a top-performing E&amp;P company.
Our portfolio offers several strategic options to enhance our cash flow and liquidity through potential asset sales joint venture agreements and/or participation agreements.
Some of which we expect to execute in 2015.
Discussions have already begun with several parties and we are confident in our ability to maximize the value of our resources both in the short-term and for the long-term.
The success we have had in improving our productivity and capital efficiency over the past two years has created the opportunity to bring additional value forward.
Under any or all of these potential agreements Chesapeake would be able to accelerate its drilling activity and production beginning in 2016 or use any potential proceeds to enhance our capital structure.
A quick note on our gas differentials we are projecting these differentials which include both basis and non-basis cost to be relatively flat over the next 18 months.
However we have several initiatives underway to improve these costs.
Positive discussions with Williams our primary gas gathering provider are continuing and we are confident in finding mutually agreeable solutions that will benefit both companies.
We will provide additional details regarding differentials later on this call.
We look forward to reporting more details to you as they come available but in the meantime we are leading with our strengths attacking our liabilities and driving for greater shareholder value.
I'm excited to see what the leadership and talented employees of Chesapeake Energy are going to achieve in the remainder of 2015 and beyond.
I will now pass the call to Jason and Chris for an operational update then to Nick for a review of our pricing and liquidity and then we'll open the call for questions.
Thank you Doug.
Good morning.
This is Chris Doyle.
Let me start by highlighting some of the cool things going on in the Northeast.
We'll start on slide four.
Like many of our assets the Marcellus and Utica teams just turned in the best operational quarter in their history.
In the Marcellus during the first quarter of 2015 the drilling team averaged 12 days spud to rig release that was a 35% improvement over 2014.
We entered the second quarter never having drilled a sub 10-day well.
Not only did the team do that right out of the gate they averaged 10 days spud to rig release for the entire quarter.
Third quarter is off to a strong start as well.
They released off their first pad just recently it's a four-well pad averaging nine days a well and they just set a new record of 7.9 days spud to rig release.
Unbelievable performance.
Now the drilling progress in the Utica reads the same way.
We're drilling longer laterals in fewer days.
As we said in the past those efficiency gains are being reinvested not only in those longer laterals but also in optimizing completions.
Improvement in our capital deployment along with the really stable base has allowed the Utica to grow 13% sequentially while only running four rigs.
Despite the asset's strong operational performance and the team's execution beginning in July we began curtailing in the Utica due to weak in-basin pricing.
Currently curtailing 275 million cubic feet a day gross that's up from about 100 million cubic feet a day last month.
That effectively eliminates our in-basin sales.
The current differential that we see between in-basin and out of basin is about $1.30 or representing about half of the gas price.
And we've got OPEN coming on progressing very well.
We have a planned start-up in early November.
So we made the appropriate decision to curtail but only for a few months.
We are not going to grow for growth's sake as we've proven in the past.
With OPEN once OPEN is online about 85% of our Utica gas will receive Gulf Coast pricing.
And we believe this is a differentiator for Chesapeake.
While we love our takeaway position slide six we may find ourselves a bit asset long when you consider the emerging dry gas portion of the Utica.
As we said in the past we have about 300 000 net acres in the dry gas window.
A little more than half of that position is outside of our JV area with Total but also within the dry gas plan development fairway.
The position is well delineated.
We've drilled 18 wells.
We have a number of successful tests.
Industry has a number of successful tests.
Importantly the position is concentrated; that means we can drill longer laterals.
And it's also secured; 77% of our leases have options for five-year extensions.
This has become yet another strong Northeast gas asset in our portfolio one whose development could be accelerated.
Now turning to the Powder River Basin.
As we said in the past we have a highly concentrated acreage position here as well.
We have multiple stacked plays and the end result is a massive resource potential.
We've quoted 2 billion barrels of resource available to us.
The Powder provides both stratigraphic and product diversity.
That acreage position in the Powder is also the deepest and hottest part of the basin highest energy.
And as the map indicates in the upper right much of our position has two three or even four targets out there to be developed.
We continue to learn about each of these targets and they continue to expand.
Recently we have been surprised with even some of our Nio [Niobrara] results pushing out what could be a near-term development plan.
Current plans are focused on the Sussex as you know.
We've drilled 20 wells now and continue to see really strong operational results.
From the first half 2014 to the first half 2015 the team reduced cycle times by 40% and reduced cost by over 25%.
Couple those operational efficiencies with the demonstrated well results that we note on the map and we continue to be really excited about what the Powder is going to deliver.
This is yet another asset that could be accelerated in our portfolio.
Let me now turn the call over to Jason to share highlights from the Southern division.
Southern Division</strong> Thanks Chris.
Overall the Southern division had a very solid quarter as well.
All areas continue to improve with respect to operational efficiency gains and we continue to push technological limits and test new formations which will drive value for Chesapeake for a long time to come.
This morning I would like to briefly cover a few operational highlights from each of the major operating areas.
Starting with the Eagle Ford the team continues to improve.
Year-to-date well costs are down 12% from our 2014 average to $5.2 million per well.
This is particularly impressive because we continue to drill longer laterals.
When measured on a per foot completed lateral basis our costs are down 20% from just over $1 000 per foot to $800 per foot.
Key drivers behind this are improvements in cycle times which have improved 8% from 2014 despite drilling 7% longer laterals.
Volumes were down quarter-over-quarter by 7% to 105 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In large part this was due to a third-party treating facility which was down for 60 days equating to an average of 14 000 barrels per day over that time period.
This was unfortunate as otherwise we would have realized a net gain in production for the quarter.
We now have an alternate plan in place to prevent volume disruption should this happen again.
The facility is now up and running and we actually experienced our all-time Eagle Ford production high of 127 000 BOE per day in July.
We are currently at a rate of approximately 116 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On slide 10 of our investor deck we have updated the production from our spacing tests which we highlighted on the last call.
All three areas continue to perform well with little to no degradation in our performance curves.
This is very promising and supports the incremental development of 600 to 700 Eagle Ford locations that we highlighted last call.
We will continue to test spacing limits this year with additional spacing tests designed for 250 feet between wells.
The team has also identified Upper Eagle Ford potential that we believe will be very competitive in our portfolio and plan to spud the first well test in the third quarter.
Finally in the Eagle Ford we continue to push forward with prioritizing longer laterals as part of the development program.
The first two 10 000 foot wells are on flowback and cleaned up from the stimulation work.
We are also in the process of drilling our first 13 000 foot well pushing the technological limits of the field and the results are showing.
Very similar to the Eagle Ford the Haynesville team continues to execute on a strategy to drill longer laterals with enhanced completion design.
The fruit of their work is shown by our production growth of 9% for the quarter as we rose to 669 million cubic feet a day net.
On slide 12 of our published deck we have an updated performance on our 7 500 foot extended laterals that also used our enhanced stimulation technique.
These wells continue to perform at a rate 10 million cubic feet a day higher than the offsets while maintaining a much shallower pressure decline.
The team continues to optimize development in the field using these enhanced techniques with plans to drill the first 10 000 foot laterals in the fourth quarter.
We remain very positive on the base-enhancing potential of the Haynesville refrac program as well.
We were able to participate in eight wells via our non-operator position.
The average well increased 2.7 million cubic feet a day and these tests have provided further verification that we have tremendous upside potential in the asset area.
Over the last quarter the teams have worked to optimize our candidate selection and will begin implementation of our operated Haynesville refrac program this quarter.
Now I'd like to move on to the Mid-Continent.
On slide 13 we show an expanded view of the STACK also known as the Sooner Trend Anadarko Basin Canadian and Kingfisher Counties.
What is unique to Chesapeake is the fact that we have a position in nearly all of the objectives not just one or two.
In the past we were taking advantage of our non-operator position to participate in many of these plays and gather information.
This year we have started to bring our first tests online in some of these plays.
First off I would like to highlight the Oswego formation where we have drilled three wells.
The first two wells were geologic successes; however the completion technique we utilized caused the wells to produce sand which initially damaged our submersible pumps.
We continue to work these wells and test alternative lift techniques.
We changed our completion technique on a third well which proved to be highly successful as the well came on at a peak oil rate of 1 955 barrels per day.
We also brought online our first two wells in the Hoxbar formation; one produced at 1 515 barrels of oil per day and the other at 750 barrels of oil per day.
These wells are just the first step in a development trend we believe will help change the production profile of the company.
We have also been working to quantify our development potential and update type curves with the various plays in the STACK.
On slide 14 you'll see how meaningful this area is to Chesapeake's portfolio.
By converting our acreage position from surface acres to developable acres we have over 1.8 million net acres of running room.
We currently estimate that there are almost 4 500 net locations that could be developed in this area with a resource that could be as large as 2.1 billion barrels on a net basis.
While current production from the area is gas-weighted many of the new plays are weighted more toward oil and will help shift our product mix over time.
We have a lot of confidence in the development of the Mid-Continent and want to do so prudently.
We'll be moving our first full-time rig into the area in September to begin development of the Meramec.
We believe this is the first rig of many as we come to anticipate the same sort of success here as we have experienced in our other business areas.
It's a really exciting time for us as a company operationally speaking.
Lower prices are pushing us faster than ever to pioneer new technology and I believe Chesapeake is a leader in driving down development cost.
We are also testing new formations in many areas that will improve upon our already world-class portfolio.
I would like to now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Dell'Osso.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thank you Jason and good morning everyone.
As Doug mentioned we're doing very well in the areas within our control.
Our production during the second quarter was extremely strong driven by Utica and Haynesville productivity gains and base optimization across the portfolio.
We also saw our production cost and G&amp;A continue to move lower compared to a year ago.
As a result we've improved all three of these guidance ranges.
As we've been noting since the beginning of the year our CapEx was front-end loaded and we completed Q2 in line with our plan for the quarter and are reiterating our CapEx guidance range of $3.5 billion to $4 billion.
We're very pleased to be outperforming on production outperforming on operating expenses and on track with our reduced capital plan for the year.
Moving to our product prices the decline in oil and natural gas compared to this time last year has been dramatic.
At our second quarter earnings call last year oil was trading around $97 a barrel and natural gas was over $3.90 an mcf.
Today they are about 50% and 30% lower respectively.
As shown on slide 16 our realized gas price in the second quarter was lower compared to a year ago not only due to lower NYMEX prices but also quarter-over-quarter due to the seasonal increase in Northeast basis differentials a trend that we've seen every summer now for the third year in a row.
While still seasonally low our regional basis dips were improved compared to last year  compared sorry with our second quarter 2015 basis of $0.49 compared to our second quarter 2014 basis of $0.61.
However we do expect low Northeast in-basin prices to continue through the third quarter and until heating demand returns.
Further we're continuing to forecast production curtailment from our Pennsylvania Marcellus assets in recognition of this weak pricing environment through the end of 2015.
We do expect a nice uplift in our realized Utica pricing due to an increase of 350 million gross cubic feet of gas per day being marketed on the Gulf Coast when the Spectra OPEN pipeline is placed in service in November.
As for our basis costs which include our gathering treating transportation compression and fuel charges and marketing fees these costs have been fairly flat over the past few quarters and are actually improved when compared to last year.
Due to continued success and strong production we are seeing in our Haynesville area and the outstanding work our Barnett Shale team has done to maintain its strong base production we have also reduced our 2015 estimate for our MVC payment by around $20 million thus reducing our overall commitment to be accrued in the fourth quarter.
When we take a preliminary look toward 2016 we see our total differentials inclusive of MVC obligations being flat to 2015.
With the strong results from our Haynesville area and the majority of our Utica gas receiving better Gulf Coast pricing we anticipate our basis differentials will improve in 2016 and offset a forecasted increase in MVC payments and transport associated with the OPEN project.
As for our realized NGL prices we have seen much lower propane and butane pricing since the end of March due to very high storage levels.
On top of that approximately 40% of our NGL production is from the Utica where there is a natural seasonality between summer and winter pricing due to heating demand.
As a result we do not see improvements in the pricing of ethane propane or butane until the fourth quarter.
So we expect our third quarter NGL pricing to be below even these levels.
Switching to our balance sheet we had over $2 billion in cash and an undrawn credit facility with capacity of $4 billion at June 30.
While our cash flow in the second quarter exceeded Street projections and our D&amp;C capital spending was in line with our quarterly guidance we continue to see negative changes in our working capital due to decreasing capital spending levels.
The impact was significantly less in Q2 compared to Q1 and we do see this slowing down over the next two quarters as we reach the low point of our expected decline in activity.
We are driving to see even further improvements to our liquidity and we are making progress on a number of fronts to enhance our position.
As Doug previously mentioned due to capital efficiencies and the depth of our portfolio we have the potential through asset sales joint ventures and participation agreements to further enhance our liquidity.
Proceeds from any capital inflow will be directed to the most value accretive option to our shareholders including an accelerated drilling program in 2016 or 2017 and/or capital structure improvements.
To wrap up as we look to 2016 we are confident and encouraged.
We have the people and portfolio to continue improving our cost structure generate additional cash flow and improve our financial position in this tough commodity price environment.
I am looking forward to sharing our progress in all of these areas as the year end unfolds.
That concludes my comments so I will turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will start the question-and-answer session.
And we'll go first to Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Great details Say Doug maybe just the first question anything you can say more? You mentioned about potentially already starting to do some conversations.
Anything about which areas you consider non-core when you consider the strategic asset sales or JVs or any farmouts? Is there a particular area that you could highlight or anything else you could say on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Neal.
Thank you for the question.
At this point in time we have not provided which exact assets although I will tell you we are working multiple options across the portfolio.
We don't see any one solution necessarily.
We see several that are possible for us.
I also think it's important to drive your attention to a few things the strength of the portfolio and current commodity prices and our current ability to reinvest in the portfolio points us towards evaluating where is the lower EBITDA assets at present? What is the forecasted funding level that we see with this prolonged period of depressed prices? And how can we  is the asset idle or can we accelerate some activity there which would accelerate value? I personally am a fan of the JV structure if it's properly handled.
And we would do exactly that.
It builds underlying cash flow and accelerates value into the current term.
But we also know that some of the assets it may be better to just  to completely exit the asset just because we're not going to be investing there for some time.
When we have stated that we would do these things in the past that's exactly how we performed and I expect that we will be sharing more in the coming months on how we plan to advance these initiatives and we'll be providing more color as the opportunities mature Neal.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Doug maybe for you or Nick just any further comments you can say.
You mentioned that conversations have started with Williams.
Anything Nick you could say about potential timing of something like this or when you guys are having these conversations I guess does this is factor in that forecasted funding level that Doug you just alluded to as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
We consider and when we look at the opportunities to improve liquidity Neal that not only includes the JV or asset sale type of structure or participation agreement but it also includes minimizing our liabilities and Nick has detailed a little bit on our differentials but it's important to note that we see our differentials as flat to improving before any transaction or any deal with Williams that we could potentially reach.
The important thing is we are continuing to work with Williams.
We are pleased with the progress and we anticipate to come to some resolution there as we work across the portfolio very soon.
So Nick may want to add a little more color to it but we are encouraged there and you'll be hearing more about that.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
All I'll add there Neal is just to underscore what Doug said which is that we have not baked any improvement like that into our projections or into any of our commentary around what our differentials look like.
We feel good about where we're headed from a differential perspective from all the things that we can control on our own and we continue to have discussions with Williams.
But anything that changes on that front like we've talked about all along we're aiming for solutions that would be positive to Williams positive to us.
And none of that is baked into our forecast at this point in time.
So it'd represent future upside.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the details guys.
And we'll go next to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Yes.
Good morning gentlemen.
Doug I wonder if I could get you to just talk a little bit more about what the quarterly production progression looks like? And I want to make sure I'm making the right inferences as we look at really with your guidance this morning an exit rate and really a Q4 rate significantly higher than what I and the rest of the Street is expecting.
I see that you're going to have maybe an incremental net 35 mboe a day roughly from the Utica coming online with that with that Spectra line.
But that 660 000 boe a day does that reflect that? And then going into Q1 2016 are we going to see a bump up from those Marcellus volumes as really as  if you expect the basis to tighten up there in the depth of the winter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So first Charles just let me note that the productivity capacity of this company is amazing.
And I continue to be impressed by the operational efficiencies and base optimization and things that are taking place the focus on delivering more for less.
And specifically to your questions that productivity and our confidence in raising that guidance at the year-end includes many things one of which does include the OPEN line there in the Utica.
That is in our forecast.
And as we look forward to 2016 we definitely as those basin differentials tighten up have that potential for additional volumes from the Marcellus.
And Chris and Jason may want to provide just a little more color on any specific assets that you guys see appropriate.
Yeah.
I'd just reiterate  Charles it's Chris Doyle.
In the Utica we are planning to fill up the open capacity as quickly as we can.
That would be differentially a positive for us and that's baked into the forecast very confident of the timing of that project been doing a really good job.
The Marcellus team has done a great job responding to daily market movements up or down.
This is a daily conversation that we have and we have one of the best operating groups out there ready to respond at a moment's notice.
And as you point out that is likely going to be late this year early next year and we have right now 500 million boe a day behind choke that we can get on very quickly and respond to.
So really pleased with the operating teams their ability to react quickly.
I will say in the Marcellus none of that 500 million boe behind choke is in the forecast.
Got it.
Thank you Chris.
That's good detail there.
And then perhaps this question would be for Jason.
I like the slide that you put into your presentation showing the response in the Haynesville from the re-frac program and I gather that most of that has been non-op to-date.
But can you talk about what you've seen? How it's  I know it's been a surprise of some degree but how big of a surprise it's been for you and what your appetite is for that on an operated basis going forward? Southern Division</span></strong> Yeah let me also finish on the volumes.
We do have our Barnett VPP rolling off too.
So that's a good jump for our production in the fourth quarter.
Haynesville is doing really strong as you could see from the profile we put out there our increase.
We will see a slight dip in Haynesville third quarter just because of timing of completions but expect it to rise again in the fourth quarter just to cover the volume comments.
Refracs again there's two ways to think about this.
We have participated via non-op seen very positive results there.
I think a lot of the players in the Haynesville have just all around the board seen good positive results.
We highlighted on our last call that when we drilled our initial well in the unit we would come back and drill the second well in the unit maybe a couple of years later.
And 100% of the time we've seen that original well or parent well increase in production due to those wells.
So we've seen the results on our own where we've enhanced the rock quality around the old wells.
So very positive.
We have  we calculated 529 Haynesville wells that were drilled prior to 2012 with over 60 different completion types.
So those are our inventory of candidates for the Haynesville.
If you look at their productivity per foot those wells averaged 1 million cubic foot per foot of lateral.
The wells we complete today average almost 2 million cubic feet per foot of lateral that we drill.
So that's really the upside that we see just wells that were understimulated those wells drilled before 2012.
So our potential out here is very large.
Then the productivity gains you asked about on the 7 500 foot laterals.
What's exciting there is it's just a combination of all the technology we've applied.
And one of the great things that Chris and I are able to do is share what we're learning in these different fields.
So that gets us up the learning curve very quickly.
So both the completion techniques and the longer laterals have just been positive especially because they were in these tests at a lower quality rock area where people had written it off applying this technique has really doubled the area that we can drill in the Haynesville.
Chesapeake also has a very large acreage position so we think we're preferentially advantaged to be a company that can drill the longer laterals of the 7 500 foot and 10 000 foot variety.
So again Haynesville is a really exciting play for us and we've seen it in the production results that we highlighted today.
That's great Jason.
So we're going to see you guys getting after re-fracs on the operated side then in...? Southern Division</span></strong> Our time is coming.
Yeah.
I mean we've done you saw highlighted in the Mid-Continent as well as we've got large non-op positions that are associated with our operated areas.
We take that data that we get in we analyze it.
I mean our teams are very proactive at looking at our competitors out there but that prevents us from having to waste money always being the tip of the sword on some of these technologies.
But it's there and we'll be moving after it.
The teams are just working through a rig program.
I've got them thinking about how many of these re-fracs could we do that would equate to a rig line running? So just a tremendous amount of potential up there and the teams are all over it.
Yeah I think  this is Chris Doyle again.
I think the other thing to point out is that it's not just Haynesville.
We have two years' track record showing that we can optimize these completions.
We've done exactly that.
So going back to pre-2012 wells and re-fracking them it's a massive lever for us and one that we'll get all over here pretty quick.
Southern Division</span></strong> Yeah.
And of course Barnett we got the same program going on the Barnett as well.
Tremendous potential to help in the Barnett and reduce some of these MVCs et cetera over time as well via that program.
Great.
Thanks for that commentary.
And we'll go next to Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Yeah.
A quick follow-up.
What are the CapEx costs for those re-fracs? Southern Division</span></strong> We're going through that now.
I mean what we're doing is looking at the different vendors out there.
I mean they've all kind of got their secret sauce that they use.
And so we're looking  it's not necessarily how much one costs but who gets the most deliverability per dollar that you spend.
They're typically in that $1 million range.
We've tried two techniques.
One is just using diverter technology.
That's a little bit easier and cheaper job.
The other one that we do is we can put at a liner in place.
That gives you pretty much a new wellbore to start with.
It's incrementally more expensive but we've seen better production results there.
So those are some of the things that we're looking at as we launch the re-frac program.
Okay.
Thanks.
And the other quick question was on your sort of marketing profit that $209 million.
You reiterated your full-year guidance on marketing gathering compression net margin.
Where did that come from? And it reverses out for the rest of the year is that right? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> I'm sorry Bob I don't  your question is...? The $209 million positive on marketing gathering and compression? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Yes.
Sorry about that.
That is basically a mark-to-market of a marketing contract we have which gets treated like a derivative because it's being priced on something other than the gas we're selling under the contract.
And so we basically  that contract began its operation this quarter.
And so we take a fair value measurement of the future contract just like you would a hedge on the books and it's in a significant gain position today.
There's a recognized portion of that gain that flows through our recurring earnings.
The rest of it we adjust out as non-recurring.
And if it stays in place that'll flow through the income statement in the future.
And if the gain increases or decreases then the mark-to-market will change on that as well.
It's just like a hedge.
Great.
That's clear.
Thanks a lot.
And we'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
Doug in the commodity environment we're in at least today the notion of selling assets and accelerated drilling is not always universally cheered.
So wanted to follow-up on your hope to use asset sales proceeds to either accelerate drilling next year or to enhance the corporate structure.
If we assume this is used to accelerate drilling what are the key metrics that you and the board are going to look to to measure the efficacy of this use of proceeds at the corporate and/or the well level? And then to the degree it's used for enhancing the corporate structure can you talk about some of the options that you're considering? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's a great question Brian.
Thank you.
To the first point around asset sales in this commodity price environment.
One of the things that I firmly believe is that the value and quality of Chesapeake's assets are not recognized in the market.
If you go back five six seven years ago when the whole shale revolution got started you heard things like shale.com and manufacturing process and  coming to the energy industry and all that kind of stuff.
And in a high price environment that's relatively true.
When you get in a stressed commodity price environment it's all about the rock.
And this rock in this company is of the highest quality in most of our operating areas.
And so our confidence that those asset sales it could be very strategic to another company.
And to try to forecast what the strategic needs of another corporation may be regarding their drilling program or their holes in their program for longer term growth is difficult.
And so we won't try to do that but we are going to test the market.
And obviously there will be price decks used that are significantly deflated that can impact the value.
But to offset that we also know what we can do with our operating teams and that's why we are talking about JVs or participation agreements because we'll knock it out of the park.
As demonstrated and proven in all the different assets.
If we fund it at a different level there are other entities besides operators that are interested in deploying cash into the energy industry and they want to deploy it with an efficient high-quality operator.
And that's Chesapeake.
So I feel  I'm encouraged by that.
That said it definitely is market dependent and I look forward to sharing that progress in the future with you.
Regarding the key metrics around what we would do with the proceeds it's very important to note that we have several options there; the strength and quality of the assets the high-quality returns that we see in areas like Powder River Basin the improvements in the Haynesville and the competitiveness there and also the quality in the Utica.
These are assets that based on current pricing levels current strip levels attract capital.
And so deploying proceeds back in our program is very attractive.
We would not do that if it were not economic and if prices were depressed sufficiently that we wouldn't be making the returns that we would anticipate.
We're not going to do anything dilutive to shareholder value.
And so then you start thinking well if the prices persist and we bring liquidity in we will look at other capital structure opportunities and that's whatever is the most accretive to the corporation and adds the most value.
It's really a question of in this commodity price environment and with some of our challenges with respect to debt and the commitments using our rock our rock quality using our operations and making sure that we have a comprehensive strategy to add the most value to the shareholders in the near term and the long-term.
So from a corporate objective we will be evaluating all the conventional metrics but also looking at what's most accretive for the long term for the company.
I guess to press you a little further on the specifics then if we have this conversation or look out one year two years from now and look back on the decision on potential use of proceeds from the asset sales is there a corporate returns metric that you're targeting or looking for? Is there a net debt-to-EBITDA metric where you want to keep your balance sheet or is it just at the well level you've got an inventory the rates of return make sense at the well level in the current commodity price environment go ahead and spend the capital? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
Well we absolutely look at well level but we also look at the corporate level performance.
And so return on capital is very important.
Obviously that  for all the companies that significantly impacted with the top line being affected the way it has been.
But whether it's return on capital the financial efficiency metrics capital efficiency metrics.
Those are all things that will weigh in in our discussions with the board.
So I'd hesitate to say it's one particular thing that we're trying to achieve.
As Chris noted when he was talking we're not going to grow production for production's sake but we will be focused on all those metrics which include operating metrics efficiency metrics and financial metrics.
Great.
And one other quick one you're highlighting the STACK area a lot more.
Obviously that's an up and coming play.
Is this an area you want to develop and operate find a partner or sell entirely? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a good question and the key there is that we have a huge position in the STACK and we've got some of the best areas we believe and we've got some of the best people to work on it.
So I'd point it back to we're not necessarily looking to sell anything we're looking to capture the greatest value.
And so the options that are in front of us are open and we are just focused on driving the greatest value.
So however we can do that.
What's great about this company is we've got a ton of options a ton of options.
So whether it's oil whether it's gas the rock quality and the operational improvements give us tremendous flexibility.
And that's what makes me excited in this depressed commodity price environment and given our debt load.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Brian.
And we'll go next to Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Was curious  you gave some good color about the Utica and kind of the plans of turning back that gas as you get your pipeline up and running.
What are the thoughts in the Marcellus? Is it simply a price issue? Is there something that you're waiting for or is it just watching the differentials and getting a return? Hey Jason.
It's Chris Doyle.
Like you said we watch it daily.
What we are keying in on we have very very low operating cost out there but it becomes and has become a  we don't want to give this gas away for free.
I would love to sit here and say that we will be able to hold 2 bcf a day flat with one rig for the rest of eternity but that's not the case.
We have the opportunity and what we've done is ratchet back activity all the way back so that any activity that we're doing is either there to protect the best acreage position in the play or to bring on incremental gas.
And what we've seen to-date is just really weak in-basin pricing given the gas picture up in the Northeast.
That changes I believe maybe not next month but over the next 12 months and we'll be prepared.
And again we'll unlock just a fantastic asset for Chesapeake.
Inc.</span></strong> That's really helpful.
And then maybe just down in the South with the Eagle Ford.
Are you guys still building inventory down there and just kind of what's the plan around the completion schedules and things as we look forward in the Eagle Ford? Southern Division</span></strong> This is Jason.
Over the course of the year we're actually drawing down our inventory.
At the beginning of the year we had a balance of 151 wells.
By year-end expect to be about 96 wells.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
I'll turn it back.
And we'll go next to Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Thank you and good morning.
Where could or does the STACK rank among assets in the portfolio in terms of returns or economic limits? Just asking in an effort to get a better sense of how capital may shift to this operation over time.
Southern Division</span></strong> This is Jason.
The returns again from some of the plays Meramec et cetera are just stellar.
They compete very favorably to anything in our portfolio and there are some indications that they could preferentially start to draw capital.
So again it's the reason we're moving a rig out there is to start developing that vast resource potential we've got out there.
Again it's  in my mind this is something that could be as big as the Eagle Ford out there.
I mean it's just a huge amount of potential with wells that have huge IPs on those wells.
Okay.
Great.
And as a follow-up do any of the options to create value and/or replenish liquidity include a VPP? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> This is Nick.
No we're not looking at VPPs at this time.
I think we've  we're a little more focused on getting our portfolio right.
So when I think about getting our portfolio right that to me says we want to own the assets that are going to be the most productive in the environment that we sit in and with the capital we have to invest.
So we have some areas that we're not investing capital.
We have some areas that we could be investing capital quicker and we could either sell the areas we're not investing or find partners to invest more quickly in some other areas.
So VPPs where we're selling out of current cash flow and retaining some of the cost structure doesn't really fit us as well today.
And particularly at what I would consider a pretty low forward price deck it's not a great time to sell VPP.
Great.
Got it.
And maybe one last question here just a housekeeping maybe on the Utica itself.
What is the transportation cost on the pipeline to take production out of the Appalachian Basin.
I guess that's the Spectra pipeline? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah So Spectra is going to get us  the vast majority of our Utica to the Gulf Coast and we're looking for  there's other pipeline projects coming online next year out of Pennsylvania.
Our cost out of the Utica blended is about $0.38 an M.
And so we feel really good about that transportation cost to get us to the Gulf Coast.
Out of Pennsylvania we have some outstanding FT (45:40).
We have quite a bit of volumes that we choose not to sell in basin today and leave curtailed as that basin  as more transportation comes out of that basin over the next one year to two years we look for that in-basin pricing to improve relative to the Hub.
But overall we're looking to continue our transportation portfolio around projects that give us the right value.
And so out of the Marcellus our historic average transportation cost is about $0.55.
Some of the newer projects that have been discussed lately are priced at a point that we haven't seen as attractive.
And so we've stayed away from those.
But we are looking to see those benefit the overall market there.
So as things come on that are priced competitively to a market that gets us a beneficial price like OPEN is doing then we're all over it.
Much appreciated.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
And we'll go next to Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Good morning Matt.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just a quick follow-up question.
You mentioned your working capital burden would lessen in the back half of the year.
Is there any color that you could help provide just roughly on how we should think about kind of the cash balance as you look at year-end where you hope to have kind of your cash balance assuming kind of your spending plans and strip pricing on a go-forward perspective? Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Sure Matt.
So as we think about our cash balance going through the rest of the year we had forecasted earlier this year to be at $2 billion.
That was before we saw some of the fall away in working capital in the first quarter and before we saw some fall away in pricing.
If you think about where we were at that time and you look at the flow that occurred during the second quarter we actually hit that spot on.
And so with the challenges of pricing and with the challenges of other things that come into play there we're pretty pleased with what that flow during the second quarter looked like.
As for the end of the year it's dependent on a lot of things.
It's dependent on prices.
It's dependent on a number of other pieces that we have moving now.
So at current prices it would be a little less than $2 billion and as to where exactly it ends up we're going to continue to work on the things that improve that answer.
So it's a lot of variables there but we feel good about what our  how we look at our flow for the second quarter where it's positioned us for Q3 and Q4 with our reduced activity levels in this current pricing environment.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the color.
And then just a second follow-up question just looking at your activity versus previous guidance one of the areas where it looked like you were stepping up versus kind of the year-end expectations is the Haynesville going to seven rigs versus I think what was previously a two rig to three rig count program you were expecting to exit at.
Could you talk about kind of the decision process there and maybe how you're thinking about economics as they stand today either breakevens or returns? Just trying to get a better sense of how the play's progressed with all the innovation that you've put forth in completions.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me give you a little bit of color on that and then I'll have Jason add some more.
So in the Haynesville we've seen just a tremendous performance out of that team in the first half of this year.
And it's given us some flexibility to do a better job of meeting our commitments there.
And that's important.
As we think about the question Doug got earlier around how we direct capital and whether it's to well level economics or corporate level returns this is a decision where we think about both.
And it absolutely positively impacts our corporate level returns when we can meet our commitments with well level economics that are very strong.
And that's what the Haynesville team has been able to deliver for us this year.
And so I'll let Jason talk a little bit more about that.
But we've been really pleased to be adding activity there and do it within what our budgeted capital for the year is knowing that that's been beneficial to our overall corporate performance.
Southern Division</span></strong> Yeah.
Nick hit most of the points there.
The Haynesville team just continues to impress.
We highlighted the performance improvements productivity increases but costs have also been just coming down.
The team as far as drilling went used to drill wells for $4 million just the drilling side and wells that were 35 days.
This last few weeks they've TD'd five wells under $3 million with the one they TD'd this week at $2.7 million.
They've done it in 23 days.
So they've shaved almost 10 days off the time to drill a well out there.
So just fantastic improvement there.
Again as you drive these costs down productivity up economics just look favorable even in a $3 gas world.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And just I guess is there any kind of rough number we could think about on the return profile there as you guys think about the breakeven economics on kind of your leading edge wells or just kind of the return profile? Just trying to get a sense of how you guys are thinking about that.
Southern Division</span></strong> Yeah.
There again wells as we push the longer laterals again they get 30% returns when you consider all-in cost diffs (50:57) everything up to 60% if these 10 000 foot wells are successful.
Because we still have the MVCs we consider those differentials sunk and as short term.
Internally they're 100% rate of return wells.
So again that drives some of our activity there.
But again all-in they're still very competitive wells and just getting better every single month.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
And we'll go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Doug can you just give some more I'm going to go back to 2016.
And I know you answered some of this with Brian but like how are you thinking about 2016 today as it stands as far as level of spend stay within cash flow kind of your thoughts around that? And then if you care to can we get a maintenance CapEx number for 2016 that would  I know there's a lot of moving pieces with the Marcellus but some type of number as far as CapEx goes that would allow production to stay flat? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So looking at 2016 Dave.
We are not anticipating any significant recovery in pricing.
As you look forward the curve is pretty tough.
And so the complete evaluation of how we invest scarce cash flow is really really important.
And so our focus the discussions with our board with our capital allocation plan considering the operational improvements that we have across the portfolio what we know is that because of the strength of the assets and the operations we've got a lot of really good places to invest.
And so saying to specifically that we're going to be investing at cash flow or we're going to be overspending we just haven't provided that guidance at this time.
And we'll continue to evaluate and look at our options because as you know what  we get six months down the road a year down the road it will be different.
And as it  it could be plus it could be minus.
So I'm hesitant to be too specific about exactly what we're going to do.
We just have great options Dave.
I mean that's a simple fact.
We've got great options because of a great portfolio and great operating teams.
So and then you had a second question.
I'm sorry.
What was the second part of it? No.
Just the maintenance CapEx? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh maintenance CapEx.
With this  where we sit today we're ranging probably in the $2 billion range in maintenance CapEx.
And that's  we can update that a little bit more specifically here in coming months.
But it's going to be in that range somewhere.
The only thing I would add is we took a look at maintenance capital in the Marcellus last year at Analyst Day and we said four rigs to five rigs.
And as Doug mentioned that has completely changed.
Sprinkle in 30 million boe a day wells that are drilled in 7.9 days and all of a sudden hey let's keep 2 bcf flat with two rigs.
And I know it's going to be better a year from now.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
And I think that that comment that Chris made Dave is kind of key and I just want to emphasize I think from an unconventional gas and oil company perspective here in the United States that it's going to start focusing on the rock quality.
We're going to see across the industry more and more focus on the rock quality.
And the quality of the operations applied to that rock and that is something that we still consider to have a competitive advantage and whether it's improvements in the Marcellus improvements in the Haynesville you can count on Chesapeake continuing to lead that curve on the operations and the quality of the rock that we've got.
So I think we have time for one more question.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
I appreciate everyone dialing in today.
I just would like to reiterate what I said at the beginning of the call.
Chesapeake is leading with our strengths.
We're attacking our liabilities and we are driving for greater shareholder value.
Our portfolio offers several strategic options that provide opportunities to strengthen our cash flow and liquidity and I'm looking forward to sharing that progress with you in the coming months.
Please feel free to reach out to Brad with any other questions that you may have.
Thank you  thanks to everyone for joining us today on the call and that concludes the teleconference.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Quarter Three 2015 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Sylvester.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2015 third quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the updated Investor Presentation that we posted to our website this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which consist of statements that cannot be confirmed by reference to existing information including statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and in other SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on such statements.
With me on the call today are Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Executive Vice President of the Northern Division; Jason Pigott our Executive Vice President of the Southern Division; and Frank Patterson our Executive Vice President of Exploration.
Doug will begin the call and then turn the call over to Nick for a review of our financial results before we turn the teleconference over for Q&amp;A.
So with that thank you and I will now turn the teleconference over to Doug.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Brad and good morning.
Our results in the third quarter provide good solid evidence that we continue to execute on our strategy of improving margins maximizing liquidity in this low price environment preserving our cash generating capabilities and improving our core strengths of capital efficiency speed and flexibility.
During the quarter we have advanced several organizational and operational initiatives to further prepare Chesapeake for an extended low commodity price environment.
We continue to see market efficiency improvements across the portfolio and we are pursuing new value-adding opportunities.
As previously announced we have taken action in the third quarter to make our company stronger.
And we will continue to focus on improving our financial and operational competitiveness.
Here are just a few highlights from the quarter.
We executed new gathering agreements in the Haynesville and dry gas Utica which have dramatically improved the value of these two assets.
We secured an amended revolving credit facility which has provided a significant increase in our financial flexibility.
We eliminated our common stock dividend and also eliminated drilling and financial commitments resulting from the sale of our Cleveland Tonkawa subsidiary both of which have added cash back to the company.
We continued to reduce controllable cost and eliminated approximately $200 million of annual production and G&amp;A cost from our cost structure.
We signed or are in the process of signing several sale agreements for non-core non-operated assets.
And finally we achieved several operational records and accomplishments in the field including meaningful progress in new resources like the Meramec the Upper Marcellus and the black oil Niobrara.
Moving to our quarterly performance our daily production averaged 667 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which after adjusting for asset sales is a 3% increase year-over-year.
This included the impact of Utica and Marcellus curtailments of approximately 51 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and the sale of our Cleveland Tonkawa assets of approximately 8 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As a result of our continued strong production performance and base optimization we have raised our guidance for the full year.
Importantly we continue to drive cash cost reductions on an absolute and per-unit basis.
Third quarter lease operating expenses and G&amp;A costs were $4.88 per barrel of oil equivalent down approximately 9% year-over-year and down 10% sequentially.
We have lowered our guidance again for these two categories for the remainder of 2015.
Additionally we have reduced our full year CapEx guidance by $100 million to a range of $3.4 billion to $3.9 billion.
Due to greater capital efficiency and expected low prices we intend to meaningfully reduce our capital spending in 2016.
As I noted before we recognize the challenging nature of our balance sheet and we are firmly focused on improving our financial strength during this difficult commodity price environment.
The quality and diversity of our portfolio will continue to provide flexibility and optionality.
Finally I'd like to touch on just a few of our operational highlights for the quarter.
We continue to focus on improving completion efficiency as a value differentiator at Chesapeake as measured through finding and development cost.
We are attacking our capital cost in the numerator and with technology and innovation we are making significant improvements in the recoverable reserves per well in the denominator and also the associated productivity per well.
We are drilling faster and cheaper drilling longer laterals and enhancing our completion techniques to drive further value from each investment.
In the Eagle Ford we expect to see approximately 9% production growth this year compared to 2014 with approximately 45% lower capital investment.
Compared to last year we have seen a 13% reduction in drilling cost per lateral foot and an 8% reduction in cycle time despite a 7% increase in average lateral length.
We currently have 19 wells drilled with greater than 9 000 foot laterals including two record 13 000 foot laterals.
We also put our three highest rate wells online in the quarter each reaching peak production rates of over 1 000 barrels of oil per day.
In the Mid-Continent area an asset that I consider to be one of the most undervalued assets in our portfolio we have drilled our first two wells in the Meramec and are drilling a third.
We drilled our first Meramec well in 27 days and our second in 18 days.
Our first well has been on production for just a few days and is still cleaning up however has already reached over 870 barrels of oil per day and is still climbing.
We are obviously encouraged by the early results of this well and our second well be placed on production later this month.
With over 1.8 million net acres in the STACK area in Oklahoma we estimate that we have more than 1 200 future locations to be drilled in the Meramec and the Oswego formations not to mention also the exposure to many other prolific oil horizons in the area.
So expect to hear more from our Mid-Continent plans and performance in the future.
Moving to the Northern division in the Upper Marcellus we completed two test wells in southern Bradford County.
These two Upper Marcellus wells achieved peak production rates of approximately 19 million and 17 million cubic feet per day.
This performance is highly competitive and we believe this opens up the potential for over 1 000 Upper Marcellus locations previously uncaptured in our portfolio.
Because most of our acreage in this area is currently held by production we have development and timing flexibility.
The Powder River Basin asset has progressed dramatically in the past year and our estimate of recoverable resources there continues to expand.
In October we placed a black oil Niobrara well on production that reached 1 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day with an 85% oil cut and 43 degree API gravity.
This test is significant proof of the concept and validates the great work that our teams have been doing to add value to our shareholders in this asset.
Overall I'm pleased with our progress but we still have a long way to go and significant value opportunities to capture.
The strength of our portfolio offers great diversity and a resource base that is growing in size due to the improved productivity and capital efficiencies that we are seeing every day.
As I've said before and I'll continue to say we are not done.
We will continue to deliver and we will continue to improve our value proposition.
I'll now pass the call to Nick for review of our balance sheet and liquidity and then we'll open the call for questions.
Thank you Doug and Good morning everyone.
As Doug mentioned we've done a lot in the past quarter to strengthen our liquidity and enhance our financial flexibility and we continue to see significant progress in many of the areas within our control.
Our production CapEx and cash flow outperformed expectations for the quarter as we continue to see operational efficiency and capital efficiency deliver strong results on our reduced capital program.
We finished the quarter with over $1.7 billion in cash and an undrawn credit facility with capacity of $4 billion at September 30.
The amendment to our revolving credit facility at the end of September was an important step in securing and enhancing our liquidity through the term of the facility in 2019.
Shoring up of this important liquidity and the methodical progress we are making towards selling non-core assets gives us confidence to fund the required tender on our 2035 convertible debt this month with cash-on-hand.
Given the continued volatility in the market due to commodity prices and the better clarity around our forward liquidity position we have been happy to be patient when it comes to any assets we evaluate for sale.
However we are making solid progress on the sale of non-core non-operated positions where we are in the process of contracting several deals that we believe will bring in $200 million to $300 million between the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of 2016.
This does not include some potential larger asset sales that we are evaluating.
As we enter 2016 our liquidity and cash flow generation are of utmost importance.
We are committed to preserving that liquidity and driving stronger cash flows every day focusing on both the cost side and the revenue side.
We have added meaningful gas and oil hedges for 2016 when the market has provided opportunities to do so.
We structured the amendment to our revolving credit facility assuming no asset sales and low-commodity prices giving us confidence in our ability to remain flexible throughout the year.
As such cash provided from any asset sales or higher prices can be invested in our balance sheet or our business in the way that creates the most shareholder value.
Our strong and flexible portfolio and our people who are relentlessly driving for better solutions will both help us to weather this tough commodity price environment.
That concludes my comments so I will now turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Mr.
Leggate your line is open.
Please check your mute function sir.
Okay we'll go to our next question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Say quick question Doug first on the STACK.
Obviously the first well at 870 barrels a day after three days looks quite good.
How do you see that cleaning up over the next few weeks? And again I guess you guys identified a lot of that area.
If you could talk about potential acreage after seeing that first well and now drilling your third.
How big a position you have in that area? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
You bet Neal.
I think I'll let Jason provide just a little bit more color but I'll make a few comments just high level.
What's really exciting to us is this large acreage position and the capital efficiencies that Chesapeake continues to drive in all of our operations gives us the position to continue to expand core opportunities and really good investments in the STACK.
And so I'm very pleased and we expect that well to continue to clean up.
But what I also really am excited about is when you see the strength of Chesapeake's operating performance driving those days down drill and complete on the well and we'll continue to see improvements there you can expect to see continued successive capital efficiency and productivity gains from this asset.
And I'd just really highlight that I think Chesapeake's position in the STACK continues to be our most undervalued asset.
And Jason if you want to kick in there I'd appreciate it.
Yeah.
Again it's only three days and this well is drilled to the farthest north part in a thinner part of the Meramec so I think that makes it additionally encouraging to me.
The flowbacks that we've seen had been fairly flat in their production rate for the first month.
Again this well is flowing at 1 000 psi.
We put a tracer on the very first stage of the frac and we have not seen that tracer chemical come back yet.
So we haven't seen all the wellbore yet but it's been fairly flat for the first few days and it's in a thinner part of the play.
The second well that we're drilling or about to turn online here in the next couple weeks is in a much thicker part of the play and the pressure from the drilling out the plugs has been very positive as well.
So it should surpass even this first well.
As Doug mentioned our drilling and completion efficiency have really been what's outstanding there.
This first well came in at say 23.5 days.
Current estimates for that well are $7.4 million so we did a really good job out the gate.
On the second well via the help of our operations support team and a fantastic drilling group the second well was at 18 days.
It was $500 000 savings on drilling alone which could put this well in that $6.9 million range which we based on some of the peers that I've looked at their data this is kind of industry-leading cost for a 10 000-foot well.
So we're really excited about it.
We're also taking a core on this third well.
I think they've just about finished taking the core on that.
One of the advantages of Chesapeake is having a core lab across the street so we should be able to get a lot of our data back from that which will help us in the future with spacing and staggered laterals and really the development of the field.
Combined again we  our STACK is a little bit different than others.
I consider the STACK the Miss Lime our Oswego and the Meramec here.
So together those are  got a almost 400 000-acre position between those three formations.
We didn't mention it I think in our notes but we have drilled our first two 10 000-foot wells in the Miss Lime as well.
Those two wells came in for an incremental $200 000 of drilling.
So those economics will be competitive with Meramec Oswego any other formation that's out there.
That one 10 000-foot well saves $1.4 million versus drilling two of our traditional 5 000-foot intervals.
So that well is also being completed and should have production online.
But it saves 35% on our cost to develop that field if those wells are successful.
So we're really excited about all the formation.
It's not officially the STACK but we've got that STACK interval play out there that just has three powerhouse formations that all have great economics.
Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
And then Doug just one other if I could.
How do you all think  you've obviously done tremendous job on shoring up your liquidity position.
But how do you think about with where gas prices currently are and kind of how you see your spending next year maybe if you could talk a little bit about any potential outspend or how you see that sort of going next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Neal.
That's a great question.
I think  and very important question for Chesapeake particularly given our balance sheet.
And we are not providing any capital guidance today for next year but I just would like to highlight that the flexibility and the options we have in our portfolio give us a lot of strength and as we look next year I wanted to make sure to note on this call that we are looking to meaningfully reduce our capital next year.
Gas prices obviously being lower.
You look at the strip you see some sort of recovery.
But we're not designing this business Neal around increasing prices and so the drive for efficiencies the quality of the rock and the quality of these assets.
We have got to find a way to be competitive and I can assure you that the capital spend and investment next year will be directed at how we can capture from this strong portfolio the greatest value.
And with our program we have significantly ramped down our activity.
We've continued to take it down.
And as we look forward to 2016 we'll maintain that flexibility to make further adjustments based on prices based on capital efficiency and based on performance.
So you can expect that we'll be providing that guidance a little bit later but the focus on capital efficiency and the focus on directing capital investments either to gas or oil will be where we can capture the greatest value.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the details.
Nice quarter.
And we'll go to our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Brian.
Your mindset a quarter ago may have been characterized as Chesapeake needs to sell assets to increase activity levels to maintain or improve efficiencies.
It seems like you moderated the tone a bit on activity levels for next year and you mentioned $200 million to $300 million of asset sales.
But wonder if you could just characterize A the extent of asset sales that we should expect and B how that would translate into activity levels and further efficiencies versus the strong reduction in say Op cost that we've seen this quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure Brian.
So as you look at the commodity price environment you look at the opportunities that we had going forward.
Our focus is still the same.
And that is if we can accelerate the value from an asset sale we will do that.
And we're looking at many different opportunities within  with that respect.
What I think is really important to note is that we're not dependent upon an asset sale in any way.
And if we can capture and accelerate value we will do that.
But we don't have to to perform the asset sales.
We wanted to make sure to note that we have a number of underlying non-core things that are moving through and we expect to close on as Nick highlighted.
But this environment and how we drive greater value from a large portfolio is something that we believe we still have opportunity to bring forward a greater value.
So we'll continue to look at asset sales but our position is the same in that we are not depending upon asset sales.
If we do sell something we've got a lot of options.
We can put it directed towards the assets and invest in our program or we can also attack the capital structure that we have highlighted that we will continue to improve.
So Nick you want to add any other color there? Yeah.
So we've talked quite a bit earlier this year about a desire to sell non-core assets.
And we've tested the market around a few things there.
Like we said today we have visibility into a few things that are moving forward relatively small at this point.
And we're again happy to be patient on that front because we do have the operational flexibility to take capital lower.
But really what's I think driving things more than anything at this point is that our capital going lower for next year is driven more by commodity prices than it is by whether or not we sell an asset.
I mean we're going to invest in our properties the way that we think is the most prudent.
And right now if I turned around tomorrow and found that we were selling a large asset for a lot of money it's not really going to change our capital plans in the near term.
It might give us flexibility to think about things differently over a longer period of time or something like that.
But for the short term as we get into most of 2016 here we see prices at a level that encourage us to be pretty low capital investment and allow the market to continue to heal itself.
And so we're setting up our program such that if asset sales surprise to the upside we'll be able to look at our balance sheet try to do things that make the most sense for the long-term health of the business.
And depending on how things unfold for next year it could change that means we would ramp capital.
But it may not.
And we have some challenges with our balance sheet as everyone is well aware that we focus on every day.
And we've made some progress there and we'll continue to make more.
One of the things that we look at is with our maturity here the put on the converts in November this modest amount of non-core asset sales and the cost reductions that we have in front of us that are real cash-on-cash reductions allow us to fund that.
And so we end up in a cash position across a couple of quarters that's the same as we were planning to be earlier this year when you might have thought that that was a piece of debt that you would refinance.
So instead we'll retire that completely and we'll move on with the same liquidity position.
So we feel really good about that and we feel really good about the ability to be patient.
The ability to look at our capital program and say what's driving lower capital spend is prices.
And we're making the right decisions for long-term value creation.
Thanks that's really helpful color.
One follow-up asset-level type questions a couple quick ones there one on STACK you've highlighted this now a couple of times as a really underappreciated asset is STACK now strategic to Chesapeake from a development perspective as a retained asset or is this a candidate for asset sale? And then in the Utica you highlighted in the release an additional 350 mmcf per day of new capacity allowing access to Gulf Coast pricing.
Should we expect that your Utica production goes up by that amount or just you take gas currently getting lower prices and get higher prices on that gas? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Brian.
I think you should consider that the STACK is a highly strategic asset to Chesapeake and as Jason noted we've got great optionality there and a lot of excitement and energy around it and with respect to the Utica this is a powerhouse asset within our portfolio and having that additional capacity gives us a significant amount of flexibility.
I think what's important to note there is that we are not activity-driven.
We are not volume-driven.
We are value-driven.
And so what we direct our investments and how we fund whether it be the STACK or whether it be Utica is all directed at how we optimize the greatest value.
Yeah.
And Brian this is Chris Doyle just a little additional color on the Utica to answer your question the 350 mmcf per day was the planned OPEN expansion.
It's online.
We're building out a lateral to connect our gas.
What we saw in the third quarter and what you saw on our results of 15% sequential decline that was a planned decline curtailment.
We've brought that gas back on for a number of reasons.
One to access the Gulf Coast part of our plan to get 80%-plus of our gas to that pricing.
That's now in place.
The other thing is seasonal NGL pricing that we see flip October 1.
We've brought most of that gas back on.
We've  actually the asset set production records last week and continues to hit it out of the park.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Brian.
And we'll go next to Doug Leggate with Merrill Lynch.
Thanks everyone.
Can you hear me? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure.
I'm so sorry guys.
There was some kind of Phonegram on this morning.
I'm quite embarrassed.
Doug if I may just prod a little bit on your comments about capital expenditure.
I realize you're still some way away from giving us a guidance for next year.
But can you frame for us how you see the areas that you're prepared to flex? Now clearly the opportunity set is getting a lot broader with the STACK and the Powder River.
But just order of magnitude what are the kind of moving parts that you see that's going to drive your decision for how  where you want to be next year relative to cash flow? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Doug.
The  as we look at the commodity prices and project through the year I think it's really important that the investment community know that we are not counting on price recovery.
We are not structuring our investments we are not structuring our focus on our balance sheet or any part of our business expecting recovery.
That said that means we're going to see meaningful reduction in our capital program next year.
What I love about this company and I am so energized about is that despite that the technology the focus on improving our cost the competitive tension within the organization for capital funding.
I just would love for you to have the opportunity to see as we work through our portfolio the tension and the competitiveness for where the next dollar of spend would potentially go.
With the Meramec and the emerging opportunities that we see there the quality of the Sussex and Niobrara opportunities that exist as well as the Eagle Ford and as well as the continued reductions on the gas side.
We have significant opportunities.
And I think that's why it's key to note that as we look at  for the near and longer term why we would consider looking at asset sales not depending upon asset sales but if there's an opportunity to accelerate value there given the fact that with this large portfolio some things may not be funded for some period of time.
We will look at that.
But that isn't a commitment to do it and it's all the value focus.
So we'll provide that detail to you and as I've noted just the quality of the portfolio this is not a one-trick pony outfit and not a two-trick.
We got six really really strong powerful assets and that provides us a lot of flexibility.
Appreciate the answer.
Doug.
My follow-up is also if I may on the STACK and the Powder.
You've talked obviously a little bit about potential asset sales this morning but you haven't talked much about potential joint ventures.
One could be forgiven for thinking these well results this morning are a terrific advert for the quality of your assets.
I'm just curious as to whether there is any joint venture progress coming on the back of that? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
The  we consider the JV to fall under the same umbrella Doug as an asset sale.
So that opportunity exists as well across the portfolio on anything that we would want to accelerate under the  improve the underlying cash flow ability and direct JV type dollars to.
So I would just consider that the same as an asset sale that we see option and opportunity in that.
Great stuff.
Thanks a lot guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hang on just a second Doug.
Hey Doug I was just going to add a little bit of additional color on Powder for you.
The team just emailed me the latest test on the black oil.
It continues to clean up.
Yesterday it made over 1 400 barrels of oil.
Over 1 600 barrel equivalent.
So we're really excited about that.
It's been about a month online.
You mentioned gosh that's a great advertisement for any type of deal and while that's true we're also saying that we're reducing activity there and we pulled the rig out.
And there are a number of reasons why we do that.
One is response to low prices.
This acreage position is held.
I'm not real excited about selling into a market that is trying to tell us to slow down.
But finally there is a lot of work that we need to get done on the midstream side.
We've talked about the cooperative renegotiations discussions we've had with Williams.
I'm really encouraged by what we're seeing out in the Rockies.
At the end of the day the Niobrara is dedicated.
The Frontier is dedicated but what's not dedicated to Williams is the Sussex the Parkman the Teapot the Turner the Mowry and if it's $3 and $50 for a long time our development dollars are going to go away from the Nio.
And so we've got some work to do and we'll get it fixed and we'll be back at it and really excited about what we continue to see out there.
I appreciate that color Chris.
Just to check you're working interest in the Powder is about 80% right? That's correct.
We doubled up last year.
Great stuff.
Thanks very much.
And we'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning Doug and to the rest of your team there.
I was wondering if I could pick up on some of the comments that Chris was offering a little while ago on those 51 mboe a day that's curtailed right now.
More generally I'd like to ask what are the  I think the obvious answer to what would induce you to open those volumes up is better price.
But if we could dig in a little deeper below that are there more things like this change in the marketing arrangement with the Utica volumes that are going to induce you to bring that 51 mboe a day back to market? Yeah.
Charles this is Chris.
Yeah.
Just to clarify on the Utica where saw in third quarter we were about 20 mboe per day curtailed.
Decision there was not only a little bit of a shrink in gas realization partly because of the OPEN capacity that is now available to us but also the seasonal nature of the NGLs in our contracts that flip that switch and make sense to bring those volumes on.
So we are not curtailed in the Utica at this point.
This is a daily conversation weekly conversation that happens and we will respond to what the market's telling us.
But at this point in the Utica we've brought those volumes on to capture better NGL realizations and better gas realizations getting to the Gulf Coast.
Now in the Marcellus we still have about 500 million a day behind choke.
We have pulled off all of our activity or largely all of our activity.
We're excited about the resource.
Obviously we highlight the Upper Marcellus.
But again this is a daily weekly conversation that happens.
We anticipate bringing some of that gas online in the fourth quarter but it's going to require higher gas prices.
We anticipate that will happen but we're not going to bring gas on just to hit a production number.
We're going to do it to bring up cash.
So I hope that adds a little bit of color to your question Charles.
That does.
That's very helpful.
And if I understand correctly this is about in-Basin gas pricing.
There's no new marketing arrangement for Marcellus gas that is going to change the picture.
At least in the next...? That's correct.
Okay.
Got it.
That's correct.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
And Nick if I could go back to some of your comments which I agree they're very helpful your discussion about how you guys are looking at 2016 CapEx.
But to go back to your prepared comments you made a comment about investment in the business or the balance sheet.
And I'm curious if you could talk a bit is there a certain target level of cash or perhaps I know you're focused on total liquidity but is there some kind of target level where you're trying to preserve optionality? Like do you want to keep at least $500 million cash on the balance sheet absent some fabulous opportunity? No.
I don't really think about it in terms of there being some sort of Mendoza Line there because we have a very sizeable liquidity position.
Really more I think about it is we have a number of obligations with maturities coming due and other things like that that we need to preserve liquidity to meet.
And in the meantime we'll continue to look for additional ways to enhance the liquidity position that while sizeable today we're focused on its uses over time.
So there is not a magic number there.
I'd like to have more is the bottom line.
Got it.
Thank you Nick.
I'm not a baseball fan so I had to Google that Mendoza Line but I...
Well you knew it was a baseball reference.
So there you go.
No.
I didn't even know that.
But anyway thanks a lot.
I appreciate the color Nick.
We'll go to our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Thanks for all of the color this morning.
Most of it has been answered.
But a couple  one clarification and one big picture.
Those slides you have where it shows the breakeven for the PV-10s.
It looks like it's $50 and $3.
Is that held flat? And then as far as well cost and assumptions in there are those  can you just talk about the math behind there? Are those current well costs assumed well costs targeted those type of things? Yeah.
This is Chris.
The color behind that slide is that the opposing commodity is held flat whether it's $3 gas or $50 oil to find the breakeven and that is deliverable well cost what we are doing today and so this improves going forward.
In fact I think on the Mid-Con STACK that's an update from where we were previously.
So yes these bars continue to move and those teams look at where that bar is and they are beating each other up for capital and it's a fantastic thing to watch.
And so the easy work has obviously been done there.
How much more do you have? I mean can we anticipate in the current cost environment everything drifts a little lower but is there another 5% to 10% in these type of numbers or how should we think about that? I think for sure 5% to 10% just on operational improvements.
No service cost decrease.
We've got now with two three years of track record showing continuous improvement.
We've taken a big chunk out of each one of these plays and I fully expect that we'll continue to do that.
That's why you see operational records continuing to be set quarter after quarter drilling longer wells for faster.
The Utica averaging under 10 days for all the wells in the quarter.
Drilling a well in 6.8 days.
These are teams that are bred to get better every single day.
So 10% 15% I would be shocked if we're not there within two quarters.
And maybe less than that.
So this is Jason.
At Meramec for example that curve was based on a $7.1 million well.
And as I mentioned our second well looks like it's a $6.9 million well.
So they'll continue to improve on that and take it down.
In Miss Lime we're in the process of completing our first 10 000-foot well there.
We can have a whole rig line of wells to do next year.
That takes that curve down by 35% if that is a successful program.
So there's some big things on the horizon.
Eagle Ford as well.
We're continuing to push longer laterals there.
Again we highlighted our first wells over 12 000 feet with one over 13 000 feet.
I was looking back at what that meant to us.
2015 average drilling cost for Eagle Ford was  2014 average cost was $6.1 million.
These two wells with laterals over 12 000 feet came in at $7.4 million and $7.1 million.
So we've had an increase of cost of 20% but increased our exposure to the reservoir by 100%.
So when you're doing those kind of things they're transformational to those breakeven cost.
Okay.
That's good color.
Thanks.
And then I guess for Doug or Nick or whoever  and I'm not trying to be a jerk here but I'm going to ask the question.
So why not just tap the capital markets and issue some equity? I know what your answer has been in the past but can you just talk about that? Sure Dave.
We do sit with a large liquidity position.
We sit in an environment where we know we have a lot of operational flexibility we need to continue to evaluate things and think about the future and think about how things are going to evolve here and be planning for what everyone I think in the industry is planning for which is lower prices for longer.
But there's so many things for us to do within our existing portfolio within our balance sheet as it exists today that I just don't see where that's at the forefront for us.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think just to add on top of that the way we look at it though Dave and I don't  the question is a good question.
And when you look at Chesapeake and the strength of the company and with the current commodity price environment and all of those options are available to us.
And we will continue to look at the options that can drive the greatest value for the long term.
And so that's just one option and we'll continue to evaluate our investments.
We'll continue to evaluate our capital structure and we'll be  what you can expect is we'll continue to be making changes to improve this great company.
All right.
And I appreciate the candidness.
That's all I got.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just a few questions on the STACK appreciating that you're very early in the process of exploring and exploiting this asset.
But any thoughts early thoughts on the potential recoveries as well as maybe the b-factor or the shape of the curve as well as the product mix at least on these Meramec wells? The Meramec wells have been again highly oil-weighted 83% oil is what we've seen a lot of times.
Our type curve is kind of a 900 barrel of oil per day IP 600 days you're out to the 300 barrels or so per day.
So we'll be publishing more on our type curves out there but the data is just early across the field so really long-term estimates are difficult.
But it looks again very economic very competitive in the portfolio.
We're really excited about it and as I say we've got our rig going there.
And what's great about it too is just the continued cost reductions out there that really enhance the economics.
Okay.
Great.
And then on the asset sales is there any one asset or operation that's not on the table to be monetized in one form or another? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sorry.
You're asking if there's anything that's not on the table to be sold? That's right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean...
That's off limits? Yeah.
We talk about what assets are core and what assets we're investing money in and what assets we believe have the longest term horizon for attracting investment within our portfolio.
Those things move around as to what we think is top of the list and how we think about the long-term value of each of our assets.
With all of the things that Jason and Chris talk about on a regular basis each time they deliver a new set of results that's improved in one asset it's going to improve its relative performance to another.
We sit in a position where we would like to sell some assets.
We are long assets.
And in this market we don't believe shareholders are valuing us being long assets and for good reason.
And so we would like to trim our portfolio but it has to be for good value.
And so while we don't get credit and like I said probably shouldn't get credit for being long assets we also should not put ourselves in a position where we take a really poor market and force a deal into it.
Capital markets are pretty tough right now.
The ability for other buyers to access funding to buy large assets is pretty tough.
So we need to be patient.
We don't have a burning platform from which we need to sell an asset but we have an urgency and a need in our business to be getting our portfolio right for the long-term.
So we continue to have discussions.
We continue to push on things but we don't find ourselves in a place where we have to force something into the market.
As to which assets are being considered for sale or not being considered for sale we really don't go into that kind of detail but I guess the right way to answer that question and I think the way we think about those kinds of things are that we have a portfolio of assets and each one of them has a value.
And if anyone has a different view of value than I do of our assets a higher view of value of our assets then  for  because they're going to develop it differently or whatever reason then we'll be commercial and listen to them.
But that doesn't mean that we go out and actively shop things.
Okay.
Great.
And I appreciate that.
And just revisiting the question on equity versus asset sales do you anticipate the sales to be accretive appreciating where the shares are trading? Well sure the few things that we're doing right now are very accretive.
It's very little production it's non-core it's non-operated it's a handful of transactions it's things that fit within the wheelhouse of other operators that we happen to own.
It's a variety of things that drive what people want to buy from us even given the market that we sit in today.
And so yeah very accretive.
Okay.
Great.
And then lastly here just on the Eagle Ford the inventory of wells waiting on completion maybe at the end of this year and next year that you can estimate? Yeah.
We have 135 wells waiting to be completed at the end of this year and we're working through budget for next year.
So that number will fluctuate as we go through the budget process.
Much appreciated.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick questions.
On the curtailment in the Utica what was the split of condensate gas and NGLs? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It was pre  it was all coming from what we call the wet side so it's consistent with our overall split.
We're currently just on the ethane side at about recovering 20% to hit that A tax and get our gas into pipeline spec so we're  it was heavily weighted to gas but it's consistent with the overall asset.
And then just in the STACK good well results and you gave some details.
What's your working interest I guess on average on that 400 000 acres in those first couple wells? The first well was 95% working interest.
We're starting to form units now so it's kind of hard to say what your average working interest will be over the development of the play.
We're working as we go.
The first few wells we've put together are in the 90%s as far as working interest...
Yeah.
I mean so you're having success doing asset swaps and kind of forming a bigger working interest? Yeah.
Everybody's trying to kind of core up their position maintain operation of those sections.
So we've been working together to everybody block up their position to minimize LOE expense and drilling et cetera.
The real win there is if you can drill the 10 000-foot laterals.
And sometimes we're checkerboarded et cetera.
So getting it together so that you can drill the 10 000 foot wells are a big win for all the operators in the area.
And is there any issue with kind of OCC qualifying the Oswego or the Miss Lime as a shale for the cross section laterals? We're working on it.
The Oswego is thinner.
So that's our technical debate we're having internally.
Is it thick enough to drill the 10 000 foot and be precise as you get towards that toe area? But we've challenged  we've gone to 10 000 foot laterals everywhere in the southern division.
And north is doing the same thing drilling as long as they can.
So the preference is to push these things out as far as we can because it maximizes our efficiency of the drill bit our LOE minimizes surface footprint as well.
So it's a win for everybody when we can drill those cross unit laterals.
Okay.
And then Nick the cut to CapEx of $100 million $50 million of that was capitalized interest.
Was the other $50 million you going from seven rigs in the Haynesville down to six or where is the other $50 million of capital cut? Yeah.
It's really just trimmed across the portfolio.
There is a few completions.
There is like you said the drop with the Haynesville rig.
There's a variety of small changes across the portfolio.
Okay.
It continues to come down and it will move lower in the first quarter.
Significantly lower is what you guys have said so...
Right.
...we'll hold you to that.
So the point though there David is that it's sequentially lower not just lower year-over-year.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey David just to follow-up on the  when I look at our production through that time we were curtailing it's about 15% to 20% NGLs and the rest gas.
Thanks guys.
That's perfect.
We'll go to our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Just a few maybe clean-up questions.
With respect to the Spectra OPEN line coming on was the production that's flowing through that factored in to the 4Q guidance? And is that potentially what's driving a portion of the increase to the gas guidance? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That was always forecast.
It was forecasted in there after last quarter as well.
That line will be connected to our tailgate at Kensington this quarter.
We're taking advantage of it.
We've seen a little bit of strength in in-basin there in the Utica and we have that capacity to get to the Gulf Coast.
That's been baked in there to answer your question for quite a while bringing that volume back in.
And I assume obviously the transport cost is as well but can you refresh us on what the transport cost is or the economic uplift from getting gas out of basin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It is significant.
And I don't know that we've gone into the detail of what our transport cost but I can tell you it is exceptionally competitive versus our peers like half.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then one last one just on the breakeven analysis that you guys put out.
Can you talk a little bit instead of on the PV-10 breakeven the actual maybe cash-on-cash payback periods in terms of how quickly those pay back and does that also influence what you'll select as far as what you're going to be drilling this next year? I don't know if we have it necessarily for every single play.
But like the Meramec wells it can be at two years or less or in that timeframe for paybacks Miss Lime and the same thing.
So the things that we're focused on are that two years two-and-a-half years or less timeframe from what I've seen out there.
But I don't have a payout period by bar that we've got out there.
That's going to be fairly consistent.
And it absolutely goes into the decisions that we'll make.
If we're looking at a really strong asset but we got to build out to it.
And it's going to be a three-year delay type deal we're just not going to put money there.
We'll look at that cash turn and focus in on areas like Mid-Con where we've got the infrastructure we can hook wells up very very quickly and get a quick cash return.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As we're laying out our 2016 program that is a big driver relative to the weight on that in the past and for obvious reasons.
With decreased revenue you got to be focused a little bit more on short cycle cash opportunities.
And so finding ways to put capital to work that has the nearest term payback makes the most sense from a return perspective in this market even if bigger return opportunities are out there but they require a longer lead time to achieve them.
Okay.
Appreciate the added color guys.
Thanks so much.
We'll take our next question from James Sullivan with Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning James.
Hi James.
Just quick cleanup question here.
You guys had talked about the target for year-end 2015 of $1.5 billion of cash on hand.
Does that include the $200 million to $400 million of asset sales you guys are contemplating here or is that kind of absent that? This was the $1.5 billion.
The $1.5 billion just to be very clear about all that the $1.5 billion is prior to handling the November maturity.
So to the extent we're paying for that in cash it will come down.
But then the cost reductions that we're seeing in those asset sales will then again offset that back higher.
So depending on the timing of those asset sales it would either be still at $1.5 billion or maybe a little bit below.
But then you have $400 million reduced debt.
So you have to include that in the analysis.
Got that got it.
That's great.
And then just another little cleanup on this.
Was any of the royalty the payment for the Barnett royalty settlement did that happen in Q3 or is that going to be a Q4 event? I'm not actually certain on the timing of the payout of that settlement.
Okay.
I can follow-up with you guys offline on that.
But then just a last one from me in the STACK you guys talked a little bit about your negotiations with Williams going well.
Can you just remind me when it comes to the gas contracts is there any part  and this includes obviously laterals because I know you're a little bit broken up in terms of deep and shallow rights there? But is there any part of that that is in Blaine Kingfisher Canadian or wherever or even a little bit broader in the STACK that is dedicated acreage for gas gathering? I can't tell you.
The Williams are all over the place.
I'm trying to remember  I know that Energy Transfer has some of the oil gathering (52:01) for the Meramec wells.
But the gas I'm trying to  I can't recall off the top of my head.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There will be plenty in that area that is dedicated and plenty that's not.
We have such a legacy position through that area and legacy production from many different producing zones.
But there will be some that would include the STACK zones that's dedicated and some that's not.
So it's going to be an important part of our discussions with Williams going forward.
It's going to be a driver of our activity and it will be business that Williams and frankly many other gatherers.
That's probably the most competitive gathering area in the country given the legacy footprint of development in the area conventional production in the area and all of the pipe that's laying underground and frankly in that part of the world on top of the ground.
So it's a very very competitive area and a lot of gatherers will be pushing hard to get our incremental business there.
Okay.
Great guys.
Thanks.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Sylvester at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
I'll turn it over to Doug.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Yeah.
So thank you everyone.
Chesapeake will continue to be responsive and flexible during this commodity price environment.
We are not forecasting price recovery.
We're encouraged about our production volumes.
We're encouraged our cash costs are down.
We will be a low-cost leader.
Our capital is down.
We're also maintaining industry-leading capital efficiency.
Our capital program will be adjusted in a meaningful way in 2016.
And the stable liquidity and strength of this company and value and how we drive further value for our shareholders will continue to be a strong focus for us as we roll into 2016.
So that concludes our call.
I thank everyone for their time.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Q4 2015 Conference Call.
Today's conference call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Sylvester.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining our call today to discuss Chesapeake's financial and operational results for the 2015 full year and fourth quarter.
Hopefully you've had a chance to review our press release and the updated investor presentation that we posted to our website this morning.
During this morning's call we will be making forward-looking statements which consist of statements that cannot be confirmed by reference to existing information including statements regarding our beliefs goals expectations forecasts projections and future performance and the assumptions underlying such statements.
Please note that there are a number of factors that will cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the factors identified and discussed in our earnings release today and in other SEC filings.
Please recognize that except as required by applicable law we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements.
And you should not place any undue reliance on such statements.
With me on the call today are Doug Lawler our Chief Executive Officer; Nick Dell'Osso our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Doyle our Executive Vice President of Operations for the Northern Division; Jason Pigott our Executive Vice President of Operations for the Southern Division; and Frank Patterson our Executive Vice President of Exploration.
Doug will begin the call and then turn the call over to Nick for a review of our financial results before we turn the conference over for questions and answers.
So with that thank you.
And I will now turn the teleconference over to Doug.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Brad and good morning.
I hope you've had the opportunity to review our press release issued earlier this morning.
We also have a few slides related to our call as Brad noted today that can be found on our website.
Despite the challenging commodity market we made significant progress in 2015.
Further details regarding our financial and operating performance can be found in the press release.
For the purpose of this call I want to focus more specifically on our strategy and plans for 2016.
I want to address today the primary issues facing the Corporation and hopefully answer any questions you have about Chesapeake.
To start I'm very pleased with the meaningful progress in asset sales year to date.
We have closed on or have under a purchase and sale agreement approximately $700 million of divestitures.
This amount significantly exceeds our prior 2016 first-quarter projection of $200 million to $300 million.
The asset sale areas include properties that are covered by three VPPs or volumetric production payments and we will use a portion of the proceeds to repurchase these VPPs at favorable prices and further reduce the complexity of our balance sheet.
Net proceeds from these property sales will be approximately $500 million.
In addition we also have line of sight on another $500 million to $1 billion of further asset sales that we expect to close by year-end.
Due to the size and diversity of Chesapeake's portfolio we have received several inbound offers and sales inquiries for smaller non-core non-operated properties from strategic buyers.
These smaller packages can range anywhere from $10 million to $500 million with limited EBITDA and production.
The interest level in larger $1 billion-plus sized asset sales is very low in the current market.
We expect to continue to make progress on several smaller asset divestitures which when taken together can add up to meaningful amounts until we can evaluate the possibility of divesting a larger asset.
The quality and diversity of our portfolio provide tremendous opportunities to further optimize our current assets and bring additional value forward.
Secondly we are addressing the operational leverage and commitments we have as a company.
In 2015 we were able to renegotiate two gathering agreements with mutually beneficial solutions to Chesapeake and Williams in our Haynesville and dry gas Utica areas.
In 2016 we will continue to actively pursue improving our gathering and transportation costs as demonstrated by two recently signed agreements with other midstream service providers.
These two agreements will enhance our EBITDA by an additional $50 million this year through lower firm transportation volume commitments and lower fees on certain pipelines in our Haynesville Barnett and Eagle Ford areas.
These achievements were primarily with our midstream partner Energy Transfer and were achieved by awarding additional business for services we need in our core basins at market rates.
We continue to work with all of our midstream partners in each of our major operating areas to find cost-effective mutually beneficial solutions reflective of the current operating environment.
By leveraging Chesapeake's future midstream business opportunities for incremental dedications for gathering services processing fractionation liquids handling and marketing we expect to continue to negotiate improved gathering processing and transportation costs for our company in 2016.
Turning to our cost structure in 2015 we reduced our production costs on a per barrel of oil equivalent basis by 10% compared to 2014.
We also reduced our general and administrative costs per barrel oil equivalent by 24% in 2015 including non-cash stock-based compensation.
Our confidence remains very high that we can continue to lower these costs even further in 2016 as we are targeting another 10% reduction in our production costs and a 15% reduction in our G&amp;A costs on a BOE basis.
On an absolute dollar basis this represents a combined reduction of over $200 million compared to 2015.
As we plan for 2016 our current capital program is 50% lower than in 2015 using the midpoint of our guidance.
And we will focus on shorter cash cycle projects that generate positive rates of return in today's commodity price environment.
The improving quality of our operations our capital efficiency and lower service costs all give us incrementally positive point forward economics even with today's price deck.
In 2016 we'll be focusing on more completions and less drilling with our completion dollars representing 70% of our total drilling and completion program.
We plan to place 330 to 370 wells on production this year resulting in a flat to modest decline of 5% compared to 2015 adjusted for asset sales.
Commodity prices are front of mind for all of us.
So we remain flexible in our capital program depending on prices and market conditions.
And finally we've made significant progress since the third quarter of 2015 to reduce our overall debt level by $2.2 billion through an exchange using second lien secured debt in December that also reduced cash interest expense due to redemption of convertible notes in November and through ongoing open market purchases.
This is a stunning accomplishment and it's also no secret that we're looking forward to reducing our debt load even further in 2016.
We expect continued pressure on commodity prices.
The current deposition and the high operational leverage associated with our midstream commitments exacerbate the challenge here at Chesapeake.
However we have multiple levers available to us to further strengthen our financial and operational stability and strength.
Liability management initiatives are underway for 2016 asset sales are progressing and our capital efficiency and cost structure continue to improve.
We'll continue to demonstrate our commitment and passion to create value for our shareholders using all of our available resources in this current market.
I'll now pass the call to Nick who will share more with you regarding our balance sheet and liquidity.
Thank you Doug and good morning everyone.
I want to start by addressing our strategy in managing our near-term maturities.
We made significant progress in 2015 to reduce our overall debt level by $2.2 billion primarily through an exchange using second lien secured debt in December but also reduced our cash interest expense.
However there is much more work to do.
The primary focus for Chesapeake is the reduction or removal of our 2017 and 2018 debt maturities.
We are pursuing several avenues to reduce these obligations including the use of additional secured debt private negotiations with bondholders and other types of exchange and tender offers.
We will continue to be active in the market to exchange or repurchase our debt and reduce these principal balances even further.
Turning to our liquidity.
Our undrawn revolving credit facility has just under $4 billion of availability to us with about $92 million of LCs and collateral posted.
We went back to a secured facility in late September with our oil and gas assets acting as the collateral for the credit facility lenders.
However there were unencumbered assets and assets that have been pledged to our collateralized hedge facility properties that were not pledged to the credit facility lenders.
As of this month our collateralized hedge facility has been terminated which gives us more flexibility as we move into the spring redetermination season.
If necessary we can pledge our unencumbered assets and assets previously pledged to the hedge facility to be used as collateral for the credit facility lenders in April.
As a result we feel good about our ability to maintain robust liquidity through the upcoming borrowing base despite the significant drop in commodity price strips.
We expect to end the month of February with approximately $300 million in cash on hand which reflects having already used approximately $230 million of cash to retire bonds due March 15 at an average price below $95.
This cash balance also reflects only $135 million of the approximately $700 million of asset sales Doug referred to in his comments that have already closed the remainder of sales for which we have signed purchase and sales agreements and expect to close between now and end of the second quarter.
Along with these pending sales we will repurchase three of the company's previously sold volumetric production payments our VPPs 2 3 and 10 for approximately $200 million.
The total projected net impact of these expected sales after purchasing the VPPs will be a reduction of approximately 25 000 barrels a day of equivalent production which has been adjusted in our outlook provided this morning.
We are pursuing additional asset sales targeted at $500 million to $1 billion of proceeds in 2016 to further improve our near-term liquidity.
I look forward to updating you on our asset sales progress throughout the coming months.
As you have seen in our press release we have broken out our gathering processing and transportation charges in a line item in the income statement to provide greater transparency into these costs.
Previously these were reported as deductions to oil and natural gas and NGL revenues.
We continue to work to further reduce these costs and expect to optimize additional gathering processing and transportation agreements in 2016.
As Doug noted in his comments we're proud to announce that we recently completed an agreement to reduce our Haynesville transportation volume commitment and fees primarily on Energy Transfer's Tiger Pipeline to better align with our volume profile resulting in a $0.06 per Mcf reduction in our total company gas gathering transportation costs in 2016.
To further maximize our cash flow in 2016 and provide additional protection against even lower commodity prices we have hedged over half of our projected natural gas production at approximately $2.84 per Mcf and over half of our projected oil at approximately $47.74 per barrel.
So to close we have a lot of work to do to execute our strategy.
We will rely on our extremely talented workforce outstanding portfolio of oil and gas assets and strong partner relationships to attack our challenges.
Based on these strengths we believe we can continue to adjust our business to reflect the new operating environment as a result of lower prices and return to significant profitability as a highly efficient developer of high-quality unconventional U.S.
oil and gas assets.
We appreciate your time today.
That concludes my comments and I will now turn the call over to the operator for questions.
We'll take our first question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Say Doug just a sort of philosophical question how do you guys think  obviously you've laid out the plan on your CapEx so I'm just kind of wondering when you think about bond repurchasing and some other finances in that respect versus drilling dollars how do y'all think about that this year and going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Neal.
Thank you for the question.
The discounts that we recognize today for open market purchases are very very attractive.
And so what you can expect is we will continue to look for opportunities to buy back in that debt at a discount.
And that has been taking place and we will continue to look for those opportunities for those near-term maturities.
And we'll weigh that very closely against the opportunities to invest in our portfolio; very mindful of the current pricing environment and mindful of getting the best return for our shareholders.
So that balance is ongoing on a daily basis and right now we see a lot of opportunity in trying to pull in some of that debt at the discounts that we recognize.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Then just maybe quick question for Nick.
Nick if you could just further talk a little bit about the credit redetermination  you mentioned about the collateralized hedges gone.
Your thoughts about as you come into April any concern about the redetermination or just anything more you can say about that? Well the process will be completed in April.
We stay in regular communication with the bank group.
We understand where they are on prices today; they very closely match the strip.
We can run that through our models ourselves.
No ability to be precise about where things will land but we feel good about our ability to get through the redetermination season with a really strong credit facility.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then the last question just maybe an ops question Doug for you or obviously for Chris or Jason.
To me those STACK results looked as good as we've seen by anybody out there and I know you mentioned in the release that you plan to operate up to three rigs in the area.
Just your thoughts any of those assets on the block to potentially sell? Or now given the results you're seeing in there is that going to continue to be one of your larger growth areas? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Neal.
I'm very excited about what we see in the STACK.
I continue to say that our Mid-Continent area is one of the most undervalued assets in our portfolio.
I've been super pleased with the recent performance that we've seen there and I think  like you said I think we have an excellent position.
We will be very closely monitoring our capital program; that is a extremely competitive area at these low prices.
But also mindful if we can accelerate value to our shareholders we will consider that.
So at this point in time we do not have any intention of selling that area but it doesn't mean that we wouldn't if we couldn't capture an excellent value for the company.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you all.
Excellent quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
David please check the mute function on your phone.
Sorry about that.
Haven't been doing this long enough to realize you have to press the mute button.
Doug as I think about the credit restructuring news that came out can you give us any color as far as timing or when you'd want that to be resolved by? Can you give us anything around that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm sorry Dave  you're saying the credit restructuring is  what are you asking about there? Just the news that you had hired somebody to restructure the debt and some of that news that came out a couple weeks ago.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Dave.
Look this is a pretty challenging time in the market and we had hired Evercore to help us out with our exchange back in December.
That news was released and generated some headlines.
We also have brought in counsel that's pretty adept at debt exchanges and other more complicated transactions around balance sheet restructurings like this where there are restructurings.
And that context to me can mean a lot of things and debt exchanges are much more complicated than your regular way transactions.
And it makes a lot of sense to have counsel around that works on these types of things on a regular basis.
And is very very helpful in navigating all the things that need to be considered when going through this type of an effort.
We have debt securities that trade at a significant discount.
There is real opportunity in that and we are going to continue to think through the various avenues the Company can take to deal with the near-term maturities we have try to capture some of that discount that's there and position the Company for better success in years to come.
Okay.
Now let me ask going forward if I think about the rig activity level coming down I guess four to seven is kind of what you put in the press release as far as 2016.
How should we think about the ability to ramp on the backend? Is the goal still Doug to stay within cash flow? Let's say we get through the summer season gas prices firm up a little bit.
Are you still thinking about staying with the cash flow of 2017 and how quickly could you step on the pedal if need be on the backend? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
The plan there as we look forward to 2017 Dave is just to continue to be very very prudent in our capital expenditures mindful of the opportunities to purchase the debt at a discount.
I will tell you that inside of Chesapeake there is a remarkable air force ready to take flight if we decide to ramp up our drilling activity.
That said we just have to be very mindful of the balance sheet.
We have to be very mindful of our cash flow.
And its  I'm not in any way concerned about the company's ability to ramp up and deliver the efficiencies that we've recognized across the portfolio  the operating synergies capital efficiencies the recoveries that we see productivity on a per well basis.
Our asset position and opportunity to drive value very quick there I think is as good or better than anyone in the industry.
But that all has to be tempered with we have to be very mindful of our financial position and make sure that we're making the best investment across the portfolio which could include still working on the balance sheet.
So no commitment on how we will respond in 2017 at this point in time with higher prices but definitely want to be as balanced as we possibly can be using asset sales as a measure to help with that activity and as a measure to help buy down debt at a discount.
Okay.
I appreciate the answers.
I'll let somebody else jump on.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Dave.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
This is John Abbott.
I'm calling in for Doug Leggate.
Just really quickly with regards to your asset sales could you provide some color as far as production that you're sort of thinking about potentially selling with those assets? And then secondly you did provide a relatively wide range for CapEx in 2016.
How should we think about your activity levels in relation to commodity prices? Thank you.
Sure.
I'll take the asset sales question and then I think Doug has something he wants to say on CapEx.
But on asset sales like I said our outlook has been adjusted for the impact of the asset sales under purchase and sale agreement of about 26 000 barrels a day.
So that's already included in our guidance.
As to additional assets that we may sell I'll stay away from production guidance at this point but just remind you that we're looking for things that will be accretive to our situation.
So we're looking to sell assets that are going to have an amount of cash flow with them to make them attractive to a buyer and yet not fundamentally change our position relative to the cash proceeds we get versus what we sell.
So it depends on proceeds we get and how things go; that's obviously  those are obviously transactions that are in negotiations and there's several of them that could combine to be in that range.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And John just on the CapEx question just a little more color there.
So the range that we provide is $1.3 billion to $1.8 billion inclusive of our capitalized interest.
And our drilling and completion program that we have a wide range on it and the purpose for that is to account for flexibility in the program.
We also know that our teams will continue to do a very good job in capturing all the synergies and cost  capital cost savings possible.
And so we have that range on there.
Obviously as prices stay at lower levels we'll be pushing for the low end of that but we have some flexibility as well depending on what our best investment may be whether that be repurchasing debt or investing in our program.
So we've specifically had a wide range to account for flexibility going forward in the year.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning to everyone there.
I wonder  you guys mentioned in your press release about bringing on some curtailed volumes in 4Q.
But I'm wondering if you could give us a little bit more detail on whether you brought back all your curtailed volumes and whether you anticipate  or what conditions under which you'd anticipate curtailing volumes in 2016 if that's even a possibility.
Charles this is Chris.
We did  the curtailed volumes that we brought on were primarily out of the Utica that led to the big bump in Utica production quarter-over-quarter.
We did bring on all of those volumes.
We're currently producing about 1.1 Bcf a day out of that asset gross and that's full bore.
We're seeing some good cash realizations  not fantastic good.
And  but we'll  it's something we look at daily and we'll adjust accordingly.
We have also brought on some curtailed volumes in the Marcellus.
We probably entered the quarter with about 500 million a day behind choke.
We bumped that to over 2 Bcf towards the end of the year and currently sit just shy of 2.2 Bcf.
Again good cash realizations.
But a daily conversation will occur and we'll adjust accordingly.
Thank you for the detail Chris.
Just so make sure I understood so if you were at 500 million curtailed year-end now you think you are down to around 300 million in the Marcellus? Yes probably 200 million to 300 million.
Okay that's great.
And then Doug if I could just go back to that last question you fielded and get you to elaborate a little bit more on that range for the CapEx.
If I understood you correctly you've identified two things that could swing that.
One would be commodity prices and the second would be your appetite for deploying dollars into debt buybacks versus the  versus your E&amp;P program.
Is there also an aspect that you would swing  you would move around in that range based on these asset sales? Can you just  I know there's multiple dimensions here but I just want to get a feel for what the big levers are in your mind.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a possibility Charles.
That's not something that we're targeting at this point in time so we continue to  we'll be evaluating each of those opportunities as we progress through the year.
Prices will dictate a lot and the efficiency of the program and opportunities for where we can get the best return to improve the company for the long haul.
So everything we're doing is focused on strengthening the company from a financial standpoint for the longer term.
And those decisions that we make will be focused on that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks Doug.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Charles.
Next question comes from Arun Jayaram with JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Nick I wanted to ask you a little bit more details around the spring redetermination.
Borrowing base stands at $4 billion.
Some of the headlines that we've read suggests that there may be 15% to 20% industry-wide declines in terms of borrowing basis.
I was wondering if you could maybe comment on  you talked about pledging some unencumbered assets.
What kind of a tailwind could that provide in the spring period? Just order of magnitude? It's pretty significant Arun.
We had  and again this would be  I'll preface it by saying we are  we have the ability to do that if we need to and we have to get through where the price decks are and see where the banks come out on collateral.
It's a calculation that's somewhat negotiated between companies and their bank group as they look at their reserves.
They look at where their capital budgets are.
They look at all the various factors.
So we will continue to work with our bank group and determine the best answer as to whether or not we want to pledge additional reserves there need to et cetera to get the borrowing base where we think it should be.
But I feel really good about our ability to maintain a very robust borrowing base.
It's impossible for me to say at this point that it will remain exactly at 4 billion but there's a lot of moving pieces to it.
And we have a lot of collateral to move around to support that calculation if we need to or want to.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up on that Nick obviously you've had discussions with the banks would you say that the current focus is on additional covenant tweaks or more just on that total commitment amount? Well we may ask for additional covenant tweaks ourselves but banks don't really have an opportunity to ask us for that unless we haven't asked (27:16) of them right? So we'll see how the year goes.
We'll see what we decide we want to do and how we decide we want to do things.
But as far as a redetermination goes it's a process that if we just go through the process and have the collateral we need the banks really don't have an opportunity to ask us for anything in that process.
Okay.
Thanks for clarifying that.
My final question really regards the minimum volume commitments on the midstream.
Doug you mentioned that there's some levers that CHK could pull in this process.
I was wondering if  I'm interested to understand if Chesapeake could call it normalize some of the midstream commitments through call it industry standards.
What kind of cash flow or cost benefit could you see on an annualized basis? So what is the prize if you are to successfully renegotiate these contracts on an annualized basis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a great question Arun.
It's very large.
Substantial opportunity exists there and either through negotiating directly with our midstream partners where we have good relationships or through the award of additional business  negotiating contract extensions through awarding additional business that we have that's a part of our normal program we see significant opportunity there.
And we are pursuing it aggressively.
Okay.
So I take this to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars kind of range? I know it's probably hard for you to give us an exact number.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
That is absolutely right Arun.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> All right.
I think that concludes the prepared remarks we want to have today.
We thank you for joining us and please feel free to reach out to Brad with any questions that you might have.
That concludes our conference call.
Thank you operator.
Thank you everyone.
And this does conclude today's program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.