Good morning and welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Veronica and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Veronica and good morning everyone.
Welcome to CIT's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
Following our formal remarks we will have a Q&amp;A session.
We do ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the queue if you have additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2010 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to certain non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
And for more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website www.cit.com.
I'd now like to turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for being on the call.
I'm going to make a few introductory comments and then turn the call over to Scott.
Our first quarter results reflect continued progress on our strategic objectives.
We continued to expand the role of CIT Bank.
We're very pleased that the FDIC and the Utah State banking regulators lifted their cease and desist on CIT Bank.
We did move our Small Business Lending platform into the bank and we're now originating new loans for small business lending in CIT Bank.
We expect to move our vendor origination platform in the U.S.
into the bank later this year subject of course to regulatory approval.
And we saw a 15% sequential growth in committed loan volume in CIT Bank including almost 100% of U.S.
Corporate Finance being originated in the bank.
So the strategic objective of growing the bank growing the bank's assets and ultimately growing the bank's deposit base will continue.
Second we made progress on our liability restructuring and lowering our funding costs.
Earlier in the quarter we repaid $1.75 billion of our high-cost debt.
We issued $2 billion of new 3- and 7-year debt with lower cost and with better covenants.
And as we've already announced we will repay $2.5 billion of our high-cost debt during this quarter the second quarter.
In the first quarter we originated $1.3 billion of new funded volume.
I would characterize our credit portfolio as stable and then you've seen the nonperforming loan balances come down so that's a good sign.
We are continuing to focus on expenses and our expenses were in line with what we were budgeting for the quarter.
Our book value you saw it grow to $44.85.
And you saw us complete the sale of our Dell -- or finalized the agreement to sell our Dell Canada and European assets which substantially completes the vendor portfolio restructuring.
So it's a good quarter from my perspective.
We made good progress.
And I'll now turn it over to Scott to get into the details.
Scott? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We had a good start for the year reporting $0.33 of earnings and building book value to $ 44.85.
And while our reported earnings are lower than prior period our economic performance is improving driven by solid levels of business activity stable credit quality and lower borrowing costs.
The first quarter also benefited from gains on asset sales and favorable foreign exchange marks.
As with past calls I will walk you through the key drivers of our consolidated results review each business segment and update you on funding before turning the call over for questions.
Total assets were essentially flat at $51 billion as the $900 million decrease in finance and leasing assets was largely offset by increased cash and investments.
Commercial finance leasing assets declined $500 million and a liquidating consumer book contracted roughly $400 million of which $250 million was from asset sales.
With respect to cash you may recall we did close the $2 billion Series C issuance right before the quarter end so we'll not complete the announced $2.5 billion Series A redemption John just mentioned until May.
Regarding the commercial portfolio new lending commitments totaled $1.7 billion for the quarter.
We funded $1.3 billion of new business volume down sequentially but up nearly 50% from a year ago.
The sequential decline reflected the timing and value of aircraft purchases in Transportation Finance and less volume from our international Corporate Finance operation and Vendor Finance.
Importantly over 60% of our U.S.
lending volume and virtually all the U.S.
Corporate Finance volume was originated and funded by CIT Bank up from about 50% last quarter and less than 5% a year ago.
The $1.3 billion of commercial volume was offset by roughly $1.5 billion of portfolio collections and $750 million of asset sales.
However the gap between funded volume and portfolio collections is narrowing.
Factoring volume declined from the fourth quarter in line with typical seasonal patterns while receivables increased slightly.
Reported net finance revenue was $197 million an $85 million decrease from the fourth quarter.
Excluding the impacts of FSA and prepayments on lease on debt net finance revenues increased $86 million to $145 million.
The quarterly impact of FSA and prepayment penalties on margins are provided on the last page of our press release under non-GAAP disclosures.
The $86 million increase can be largely explained in 2 broad categories: lower funding costs and increased yields on the portfolio.
Lower funding costs account for roughly 2/3 of the increase.
Debt repayment and financing added about $15 million to margin with most of the benefit coming from the Series B prepayments.
The balance of the funding cost improvement relates to a secured borrowing the total return swap where collateral prepayments increased swap receipts which in turn reduced our interest cost.
This variability in collateral prepayments is the main reason secured borrowings have fluctuated quarter-to-quarter.
Increased yields on the portfolio accounted for the remaining 1/3 increase.
Corporate Finance benefited from lower non-accruals and higher yield-related fees.
Vendor Finance yields had a temporary benefit related to the accounting for certain assets held for sale.
And Transportation Finance benefited from aircraft redeployments and improvements in Rail lease revenue.
Net finance revenues excluding FSA and prepayment fees as a percentage of average earning assets increased from 56 basis points in the fourth quarter to 146 basis points in the first quarter with over half of the increase attributable to the total return swap and the vendor assets held for sale I just mentioned.
The key takeaway is that economic margin is improving but we expect quarterly variability around the long-term trend line.
Future margin improvements will be driven by the economics of new business which continue to be attractive.
Yields on new volume are good and we are funding the business competitively.
As I mentioned last quarter margins on Corporate Finance loans originated by CIT Bank averaged over 300 basis points and margins on the conduit-funded vendor originations averaged over 500 basis points.
Those economics still hold although we have seen some pressure on the corporate lending yields probably in the area of 25 basis points for asset base and 50 basis points on cash flow.
New business yields and vendor remained solid in the low double digits.
And in transportation air rents continue to improve while Rail lease rates are beginning to stabilize.
Other income was strong at $278 million benefiting from the increased gain on sales and favorable net foreign exchange and derivative marks.
We sold about $750 million of assets in the first quarter and the gains on those sales were strong.
We sold roughly $350 million of Corporate Finance loans over 1/3 of those were non-accrual and the remaining were first exposure management reasons; $250 million of student loans all of which were government guaranteed; and the remaining $150 million consisted of vendor assets and transportation equipment.
Recoveries on the pre-FSA charge-offs were $32 million down from the prior quarter and prior year.
Fee and other income was strong benefiting from investment gains.
And factoring commissions dipped slightly on seasonal lower Trade Finance volumes.
As John mentioned credit quality remained stable.
Reported a post-FSA net charge-offs decreased $39 million sequentially.
Vendor Finance losses declined considerably while Corporate Finance charge-offs increased reflective of the prior quarter increase in specific or FAS 114 reserves.
Non-accrual loans were down over $300 million or 19% on both a pre- and a post-FSA basis.
We had further improvement in Corporate Finance due to the asset sales and workouts and non-accruals in Trade Finance declined 40% as we received payments from a few large accounts.
Most importantly new inflows into non-accruals declined for the third consecutive quarter.
These trends coupled with lower asset levels resulted in a lower allowance for loan loss.
In terms of specific reserve components or in terms of reserve components specific reserves were released as charge-offs were taken on associated loans in Corporate Finance.
Non-specific reserves increased slightly as we continue to establish reserves for new originations.
While aggregate loan loss reserves decreased $14 million coverage remained stable at about 1.7% of loans.
Combining the on-balance sheet allowance and the remaining non-accretable discount we have 2.6% coverage against the $25 billion pre-FSA loan balance.
Switching gears controlling operating expenses as John mentioned continues to be a focus of the management team.
And in this quarter SG&amp;A excluding restructuring charges were down to $210 million with much of the savings coming from reduced professional fees.
Finally on taxes we provided $66 million in the quarter including about $15 million for discrete items.
Quarterly GAAP tax provisions will continue to be driven by taxes on international earnings.
Now moving onto the business segments.
As mentioned in the press release we refined our capital on interest allocation methodologies for 2011.
While these refinements don't change CIT's bottom line they do give us and you a better view of the economic performance of each segment.
Transportation Finance was most impacted given the capital requirements for their 4 purchase commitments while there was minimal impact to the other segments.
Prior period results are presented as previously reported.
Corporate Finance pretax income more than doubled from the fourth quarter as provision for credit losses was cut in half.
Other income including strong gains on asset sales and interest expense benefited from the total return swap.
In round numbers finance and leasing assets fell about $650 million.
Its $450 million of volume was offset by $750 million of portfolio collections and $350 million of asset sales.
However with volume up over 200% from a year ago the gap between volume and collections has narrowed considerably.
Charge-offs were higher but with minimal impact to the bottom line as the amounts were largely reserved in the fourth quarter.
And as John mentioned non-accrual loans decreased 20% down to about $1 billion in Corporate Finance.
On Transportation Finance pretax income increased $33 million sequentially driven by the change in leverage as we increased the amount of capital allocated to this segment.
We also had improved rent and higher non-spread revenue.
Assets were up slightly as we added 7 aircraft to the fleet.
And in February we put in an order for 3 500 railcars to be delivered over the balance of this year and next.
All of the 2011 rail deliveries have lease commitments on them.
Utilization remained solid in Air with all planes either on lease or committed to be leased and Rail utilization further improved to just over 95%.
Aerospace rents benefited from the redeployment of several aircraft while Rail rents continued to come off cyclical lows and we also saw some improvement on per diem rent.
On Trade Finance they had a slight pretax loss as it bears high-cost debt associated with relatively short-term receivables.
Global factoring volume was about $6.1 billion down seasonally from the fourth quarter and down slightly from a year ago due to the runoff of our European factoring operation.
U.S.
volume was up from the prior year as we experienced upward trends in new business signing and stability in the client base.
Factoring commissions were down slightly on lower volume and credit was stable with a slight decrease in net charge-offs and lower non-accruals.
Finally Vendor Finance generated $14 million of pretax income down from the prior period driven by higher credit costs as the fourth quarter's provision benefited from a reduction of reserves.
Finance and leasing assets were down slightly about $150 million as the gap between volume and portfolio collections is narrowing in Vendor as well.
New business volume was down slightly from the fourth quarter excluding the [indiscernible] business we sold last year volume grew over 15% from a year ago.
Net charge-offs declined considerably on both a pre- and post-FSA basis and non-accruals were flat.
With regards to the pending sales of Dell Canada and European platform the Canada sale was about $340 million in assets and is targeted to close mid-2011 while the European sale with current assets of approximately $400 million is expected to close in 2012.
As John mentioned we've substantially completed the restructuring of our Vendor Finance portfolio and continue to focus on diversifying and growing our vendor partner base.
We made a lot of progress on our long-term funding strategy this quarter.
We issued corporate debt for the first time since 2007 and we did it in size.
The financing consisted of $1.3 billion of 3-year notes at 5 1/4% and $700 million of 7-year notes at 6 5/8%.
Not only were there economic savings in terms of coupon reduction but the new Series C paper has investment grade-style covenant.
We also believe demonstrating access to diverse and cost-efficient funding is important to all our stakeholders.
We also renewed our $1 billion U.S.
Vendor Finance conduit at more attractive term and a longer tenure.
Typically conduits have 364-day commitment period.
This facility is committed for 2 years.
We also increased the advance rate and reduced the fully drawn costs.
We've paid down $1.75 billion of high-cost debt in the first quarter and announced $2.5 billion of Series A redemptions in the second quarter.
The income statement impact for each of these is detailed in the press release.
We redeployed about $6 billion of cash that was previously held in overnight deposits and prime fund and directly invested in our short-term U.S.
Treasury bills.
So while cash is down sequentially our liquidity position including cash and short-term investments actually increased about $600 million from year end.
Finally with respect to CIT Bank cash remained strong at over $1 billion so we allowed some deposits to contract slightly.
On the asset portfolio side while fairly flat the trend is in the right direction with commercial assets growing and student loans running off.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Veronica and we'll be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Great.
Following up on the last comments on liquidity could you talk a little bit more about how you derive the amount of liquidity that you're maintaining and how we should think about that as we go forward? And as a corollary how might that relate to any plans for any kind of expansion of the bank or acquisition thereof? Well I think how we think about liquidity -- as you know cash is our main liquidity source.
And as we continued to make progress as we mentioned on the conduit kind of getting a 2-year commitment that does provide us additional liquidity in 2011 that we didn't have in 2010 but we've been prudent on our cash balances and think that that is a good strategy given where we are as a company.
But we are continuing to advance our liability management strategies and will kind of adjust our cash balances as we progress in 2011.
On the bank side I think the liquidity there as we've talked about in the past as we continue to grow the business we also are looking and continue to diversify the funding sources of the bank outside of brokered CDs.
And I guess the other piece of that was whether there was any interest in either making additional investments in the bank or an additional bank subsidiary? It's John.
As we've said before it is a strategic objective to grow the bank both in terms of assets and liabilities and to diversify its earning assets and diversify its deposit base.
We are in the process of doing that.
And so over time I would expect that it will have a more diverse funding base than it has today.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Could you just run through again the effects on the margin of the changes on the total return swap? And then my follow-up question is given the increase in demand for aircraft and I guess other transportation assets would you -- are you looking at maybe selling off or taking public a piece of the Transportation Finance business would that make sense? Could you use that to pay down debt faster the proceeds? David I'll answer the margin question and I'll just kind of repeat what I said and then I'm sure if you have additional questions it'd be best to probably take it offline with Ken and the IR team.
But we've said the secured borrowing facility is our total return swap facility.
And when we have -- as we've seen in some of our assets on the Corporate Finance side the acceleration of the collateral prepayment increased our swap receipts which in turn is netted against the cost of our borrowing.
So our secured borrowing costs is going down based on those swap receipts.
Inc.</strong> No I understand that but I just wondered if you could give us a sense of how much of the margin improvement was specifically attributable to that this quarter? Yes.
As I mentioned in my comments between that and the temporary benefit from the vendor assets that we have held in sale and some of the accounting related to that over 50% of the increase was driven by those 2 items.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right thanks.
And then on...
Yes.
On your strategic question we obviously keep track of what's going on in the marketplace and the fact that both the Aircraft business is attracting a lot of capital right now and the Rail business is continuing to improve are both good trends for those businesses but both of those businesses are very important contributors to our overall earnings power.
And we -- as you saw from both us buying more airplanes and buying more railcars intend to continue to expand that a bit.
Inc.</strong> So selling off or taking part of it public wouldn't make sense? We don't believe so.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Ball from Evercore Partners.
Sorry about that.
Scott what was the amount of gain on sale of assets in the quarter? And could you talk about the outlook for the portfolio? When will it stop shrinking? What's your outlook for adding to the portfolio maybe later this year? Well the gain on the loans and portfolio sales was about $74 million.
And then the gain on equipment was about $40 million.
Okay thank you.
And then in terms of the portfolio? Yes.
The portfolio as I mentioned I guess back in February our current expectation is late in the second half probably most likely in the fourth quarter given the trends that I spoke about this morning.
And a lot of that is dependent again on the macroeconomic in regards to volume going forward.
But we've seen a decline in our asset sales and our portfolio collections are starting to narrow between our volume and the normal runoff of the portfolio our normal collection of the portfolio.
And can you give us any idea about volume trends so far in April? Well I think we have -- it's kind of dependent I guess [indiscernible] one of the business but it think in Corporate Finance we continued to have a strong pipeline of activity that we also saw in the first quarter and the mix of that business is predominantly right now kind of refinancings that are happening.
On the Vendor side I think there've been some industry kind of press around some of the kind of seasonal kind of year-over-year increases.
We've seen similar increases in our Vendor business.
March was a pretty good month and we hope that that kind of continues on in the second quarter.
On the Transportation that's kind of very delivery based which is kind of set.
And on the Trade side it's kind of on plan with respect to kind of the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> First question on the operations side I think we talked about last year that there was some additional accruals for compensation that may not be recurring this year.
Is this a good run rate for that effects [ph] in this first quarter? Yes I think I've said back in February kind of we're kind of shooting for the 2 -- kind of $220 million.
So first quarter was a little bit better than kind of the viewpoint that we have there.
We'll continue to kind of manage and look at our cost structures and balancing that with both growth and the progress we want to make on the written agreement.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the funding side as you progressed through the year can you talk at all about additional opportunities you may see? Obviously the cease and desist I think is a positive.
But I don't think -- and correct me if I'm wrong a whole lot has changed in that front until you can really take advantage of increased origination capacity in the bank and probably not until Vendor is improved that you can actually grow the deposit base above the $5.5 billion cap.
If you can you just comment on that and also your capacity to do additional term debt issuances after your successful deal last month.
Thanks.
Let me answer the bank one first.
So in terms of the bank the cap on broker deposits which was $5.5 billion no longer exists.
But we were already substantially below that.
And as I mentioned before we don't intend to fund the bank solely with broker deposits.
So we have a lot of liquidity there now.
We are originating assets there now.
But we intend to diversify the bank's funding base away from broker deposits and to have a broader more diverse funding going forward.
So on the other piece we continue to diversify our kind of liability strategy.
If I could just kind of go back a little bit just to kind of give you a little bit of the history and then talk a little bit about 2011 but as we've come out of kind of end of 2009 we paid down and refinanced all the first lien debt.
We redeemed all the Series B and we redeemed all the 2013 Series A or will be redeeming all the '13 Series A and part of the 2014s as we mentioned.
We will continue to access multiple funding sources during 2011.
So that will include both the secured financing market whether it be term or conduits as we renew some of the ones put in place in 2010 at hopefully better -- at better rates as well as advance rates.
And as we did in March accessing the corporate bond market I think that our bonds have performed very well since issuance and that has positioned us for the potential for different alternatives in that market too.
And so as we just mentioned with John too is that the bank is clearly a big focus of continuing to grow the originations into the bank.
So I think we have a multipronged approach and that will -- what we do in 2011 will be to kind of maximize both diversity as well as cost and also have less restrictions on the fundings that we put in place.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the bank.
Obviously this has come up a couple times on this call I'll just be a little bit more direct about it.
Do you think you need a branch deposit gathering system to please the regulators and to further diversify and satisfy that need to diversify the funding away from brokered CDs? Or can it be an online direct CIT-branded deposit-gathering effort? Well I think the answer is it could be either or both.
Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Just the first question was on computation.
John I think you talked some of the reductions and asset yields on your asset-based lending and cash flow side.
It seems like the larger banks they've had some challenges in terms of loan growth and the sense I'm getting is that they're trying to penetrate some of the other markets or maybe they had paid less attention in the past and one of them could be middle market lending and I think you've heard some banks talking about that.
So can you talk about the outlook there when sequentially I think there was a little bit of a dropoff in volumes for Corporate Finance loans.
And what is your outlook there in terms of growth and demand and your willingness to give up a little bit on the yield in order to generate that growth? This is Scott.
So I kind of mentioned the piece on the Corporate Finance.
I think a lot of the downward pressure of the larger institutions we would classify as kind of the higher middle market kind of the $50 million EBITDA and above versus what we would call the core middle market that it's kind of our niche which is below that.
That one tends to be less the syndicated model much more of a kind of a smaller participation around providing those solutions to the customer.
So again on that the upper middle market we have seen some of the larger institutions coming into that marketplace.
The sustainability and how that plays out we'll continue to watch in 2011.
But we feel pretty comfortable around our niche in the middle market.
And with respect to kind of the pricing part of that is you're coming off kind of late 2010.
So just as we kind of did with our debt issuance I think the credit or the pricing is being tightened a little bit but not as much as I would say in the larger syndicated loan market.
But our volume -- we have a niche lot of the activity today we want to make sure that we stay in the deals in the segments that we specialize in versus chasing volume.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I mean I know historically basically the story has been that you've focused on this niche market and that's not where the larger banks have been traditionally focused.
And it sounds like from what you're saying that really hasn't changed very much despite their ability to generate the loan growth on the upper end.
So is that correct that really does sound like you're still maintaining your presence in your niche? Right now I mean if you look at the deals that we're  competing on we haven't seen a lot of the participants that you're speaking about.
That could change but right now it's kind of the kind of industry players that we've been kind of competing with for years.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay that's great.
And then just another question on a totally different topic.
The other income accretion was a little bit higher.
I think $32 million or so compared to last quarter and was remodeled.
Was that driven by asset sales in the quarter or was there something else going on there specifically? In regards -- you're talking about the accretion? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Yes the other income accretion.
I don't know specifically so we should probably -- if you don't mind maybe follow up with Ken or the IR team on that? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Sure that's fine.
Your next question comes from the line of Henry Coffey from Sterne Agee.
Can we talk about the dynamics of transferring business units into the bank.
Obviously SBA business and you were the largest lender in the country for a while out there but I know that business has sort of slowed a little bit for you and then of course Vendor Finance and is it the assets go in or the origination capacity goes in? And what are the cash flow implications for the holding company once you move these assets into the bank? Right.
Henry it's John.
So it is the origination platforms that are moving.
And so what will happen over time as the origination platforms originate new volume that new volume will be funded out of the bank.
And the basic cash flow implication is it is more substantially more profitable in the bank.
And so that's really what we're doing here.
But it is the origination platforms so you'll see the benefit over time.
And then as both non-bank Vendor Finance stay down that cash stays at the holding company and "new assets" go into bank is that the dynamic? Correct exactly.
And then in terms of the cash build are we right in assuming you've got about $6 billion of unencumbered cash just from reading the note? Or can you give us a sense on what that balance is and how likely you are to use that to pay down more debt? Yes so Henry you're right.
At the end of the quarter between cash and the treasury bills I talked about we have about $6 billion at the parent company.
But remember on that one we've already committed $2.5 billion to be paid down on the Series A in early May.
And so that balance will be reflect -- does not reflect that payment so that would take you down substantially from there.
And then I think the -- as we've talked about we continue to evaluate and look at opportunities to see what the right level of liquidity for the overall enterprise.
And if we feel that we can reduce that liquidity we will do so with respect to potential paydown of additional debt.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
John I was wondering if you could provide us an update on where you are with the written agreement with the New York Fed.
I mean obviously the cease and desist move was very helpful and I understand there's a checklist and then a period of monitoring.
Can you talk a little bit about where you are and what the run rate may look like? Sure Don.
So as I said on our last call there is a laundry list of items that we need to complete with the Fed on the written agreement.
And it will take us through the end of this year to complete those items.
And so I think we will be substantially completed with their list of items by the end of the year.
And then they will want to be comfortable with their review of how we're doing on those items.
And as I mentioned before they also -- because they have a continuous review process they also have a tendency to add new ones.
And so which is why we'll never be 100% complete at the end of the year.
But I do anticipate we will be substantially complete with the written agreement items by the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Taiano from Sandler O'Neill.
My question is on capital.
Your Tier 1 is up over 20% now.
Could you give us a sense of how you're viewing capital at this stage? It seems like you've got a lot of excess capital.
Your thoughts on priorities in terms of deploying it and the timeframe over which potentially you could return some of that excess capital to shareholders.
And if you have some sense of where your capital ratios would stand on a Basel 3 basis.
Just directionally that would be helpful.
Thanks.
Well Michael I'll take a stab at it.
I think as you know on the capital side the focus for us is to continue to grow the business and use the capital for funding new business growth which we have talked about with respect to both the Aircraft and the Rail businesses.
We do have restrictions in some of our debt covenants in regards to return of capital or things of that source.
So until we're able to address that in the Series A that's going to be something that we're focused on and one of the key reasons as we've talked about why we issued the Series C in regards to the kind of the covenant that we were able to provide in that piece of paper.
With the respect to kind of the regulatory kind of capital as you know we have kind of a 13% kind of agreement in place.
We've gone through our economic capital analysis.
And I would say that that number both on a Basel 3 and on a regulatory point of view our internal analysis is in that range now.
Slightly below but in that range.
Okay.
And then just a quick question on the sale of the student loans.
I get $250 million in the quarter.
Was that above where you had those assets marked? And if you could just maybe update us on your views of those loans.
Are they still -- I guess technically they're not up for sale but it's something that you would consider selling if you've got the right price.
Is that fair to say? Yes exactly.
I mean we continue -- as you know those are 97% guaranteed.
So the gain on those are very minimal with respect to a transaction and a lot of it is just to -- as we've talked about is kind of continue to manage our liquidity in the bank.
And in the current scheme the yields on those are more attractive than holding cash.
Yes I think you think you should consider those as an alternative liquidity pool.
As we need funding we can sell them and they're just a more attractive investment at the moment than if we turn them into cash.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stilmar from SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Really quickly with regards to the written agreement that you have at the parent you're clearly going to be substantially done by 2011.
What -- can you give us a path at least in terms of the restrictions and the focus that you have today on your enterprise in making progress on this? And really what is it that's gained by that written agreement being lifted or by you becoming substantially complete what does that really gain for CIT at least in terms of a strategic objective of advancing your goals and how should we be thinking about that milestone? Well much of what is in the written agreement are really things that we would need to do anyways.
So a lot of it is focused on risk management on compliance on internal controls.
And those -- all of those types of things we should have and would need to have -- whether the Fed made us do it or not.
And so from the point of view of running a large financial institution having the type of risk controls having the type of compliance procedures and compliance departments and having the type of internal controls and internal audit all of those things we really need to do.
And so I don't think it's anything other than what we should actually be doing anyways.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Well I guess maybe more to the point a lot of people have been -- I guess we're all wondering is that when you get -- become substantially complete and provided that you do that does that allow you to be more aggressive? Does that milestone allow you to be more aggressive with regards to potentially advancing or advancing your strategic objectives by looking at acquisitions of the various platforms? Is that kind of a milestone that allows you to become more aggressive? Or is it really just a focus of you're just doing the operating things that you would normally do and so therefore it's just the prudent ongoing course and doesn't restrict you today? I'm just curious about the milestone.
Well there's no very easy way to answer your question the way you have phrased it.
Because anything that we would do would require a regulatory approval in any case.
And so the Fed the FDIC the Utah State regulators all would require regulatory approval of any type of transaction.
I think the one way to think about it is the further along we are in satisfying the written agreement issues the more likely it is we get a positive reaction from the various different regulators.
Inc.</strong> And then just one quick follow-up.
On the International businesses that you have with regards to financing is the financing of those platforms really still going to stay with unsecured and secured capital markets financing? Or are there international banking platforms that you could potentially take advantage of to probably access local deposits to gain a more efficient cost structure than -- and more quickly I guess than waiting for an investment-grade rating that seems like you're well on your way of getting? Well the answer to that is we do already have international banks and we are already using them.
So for instance as an example we have a bank in Brazil and it is in fact accessing deposits to fund a portion of its business.
So the International businesses just like the U.S.
businesses will be funded with a mix of bank bank deposits secured funding and unsecured funding.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Schultheis from Boenning and Scattergood.
Inc.</strong> Really quick question for you or actually 2 very quick questions.
First off on the 3 500 railcars.
What's the dollar figure associated with that? It's a little bit over $250 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And second question is actually a follow-up to Henry Coffey's question.
Obviously the origination platforms can be in the bank the Vendor financing you still need the approval for.
Could you file -- I think it's a 23A and move existing holding company assets to the bank and would you? Well the theoretical answer is yes.
There is a process to move assets using 23A.
And that -- any transaction like that would be a discussion with the regulators.
Inc.</strong> And do you think you'll actually go down that avenue or is it just sort of yes we could? Right now we're focused on moving the origination platform.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up on the comments about the Dell business.
Could you just give us a sense of what the financial impact will be in terms of freed up capital and loss of earnings? And I have a follow-up.
Yes I think as we've talked about David our focus is more on the assets.
These are still in the process of closing and to give out -- try to give out financials based on kind of where we are is probably not prudent.
I think from a perspective of the kind of the business piece of that is we will continue to support Dell as we mentioned in other regions of the world.
And we continue to focus on developing and signing up new vendor business partners and that will continue.
But we have a solid franchise in both Canada and Europe outside the Dell assets we talked about.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Is it risk sharing or the revenue-sharing arrangement with Dell different than other partners so that it might be less of an impact when you lose these assets than other business left? I mean each one of the -- again we've been with Dell for over 12 13 years.
So I think agreements that are signed over time each one is somewhat customized to the kind of the requirements for that particular partner.
So I don't think you can kind of draw a corollary between kind of the assets and the profitability of our particular program.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just on railcars out of curiosity what kind of railcars are you buying? And what's the character of the 5% that's not currently leased in the existing portfolio? Yes.
I'll start with the latter first.
Most of the -- we're about 95%.
And the one area that we have the least amount of utilization is on a car called the centerbeam.
And the centerbeams are used in construction in housing which as you know has been very impacted over the last couple of years.
So if you take out the centerbeam assets we have you're closer to about full utilization 99-plus utilization.
And so given that we saw an opportunity it's a mix between covered hoppers and tank cars that will be used in kind of the agricultural and the mining areas so very specialized assets that are used for very specific areas that are very high in demand.
So that's why we've been able to place the order as well as have full commitments on those assets at very attractive rates.
So it's kind of a -- it was a very calculated niche transaction in an area that had capacity constraints that we were able to fill.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Then you made a reference to the European factoring volume.
Is Europe still a focus in terms of factoring or...
We had several years ago a German factoring operation and that's kind of been -- kind of run down over the last year year and a half.
And so that's just impacted on comparability of volumes year-over-year so that's why we pointed it out.
It's very small.
It should be pretty much done in the second third quarter of this year.
Inc.</strong> And so there's no plan to try and build the European factoring business? Not currently but it's an option.
It's a very robust marketplace in Europe the factory market.
So it's not saying we would not consider it but currently it's something that's -- it's not going to be a near-term kind of growth strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Great.
Just -- maybe you could just come back to the idea of diversifying of funding at the bank and maybe just a little more detail as to what is available to you in your current configuration? Sure I'll review.
Really what was asked before which is both Internet deposits and retail deposits traditional retail deposits are both available to us and being explored by us.
Could you maybe just tell us how would you get retail deposits? You don't have a branch network right? Well yes.
I mean we're not going to get into that very much but we probably wouldn't try to build it from scratch.
Got it.
Your next question comes from the line of Fred Woollard from Samuel Terry Asset Management Group.
I have 2 questions.
The first is you spoke about the differences in the covenants between the new Series C notes and the previous Series A notes.
I was wondering if you could talk us through the main differences in covenants that are relevant to us as shareholders.
Second question is is there any progress towards getting a better credit rating from the big credit rating agencies? Okay.
Well I'll start with the latter and work back.
I think it's always easier.
We just completed in the last month very constructive and comprehensive reviews with the rating agencies and walked through the progress in 2010 and the priorities that we have for 2011.
And I thought those were very productive conversations where we covered a host of areas.
And so we continued to as we've said before what we need to do is continue to focus on executing our strategy and our priorities and hope that with that we'll continue to make progress on our ratings.
Covenants so I would say to kind of go through the specifics of kind of those.
The way that the Series Cs are structured we have to follow 8 covenants when we get to investment grade.
And the biggest -- there's couple of restrictions that we had.
One was the cash sweep that's in our current debt structure.
And then I think the other piece as we've talked about is on kind of restrictions in regards to what we could do with our capital.
So I think those are probably the 2 large ones but I think the key piece is that -- as we improve our ratings that it will kind of turn into an unsecured piece of paper.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Bruce from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My question is first and foremost stepping back there seems to be some broad disagreement as to exactly what CIT needs to look like when it grows up and maybe what the best tactics are to get there.
John could you maybe elaborate on what your view is of the strategy for CIT going forward? And how has it evolved from maybe over the last year? And then my follow-up question is when we would you feel you're comfortable with kind of where you are in terms of your progress to be out in front of investors and basically describing your view of the longer-term opportunity for CIT? It seems that there's still very much kind of a view that this is a restructuring situation and maybe it is for some period of time here in the future but at some point you're going to be in a more steady state and having a little bit wider dispersion of investors may require a little bit of better insight into the longer-term strategy.
Sure.
So first I'll talk about the strategy.
So we are a lender to small and middle market companies.
We are a lender against assets and a lender against assets that goes all the way from very short-term receivables.
As you know we're the largest factorer in the United States all the way to lending against airplanes and railcars.
And so we are fundamentally lenders to the small and middle market and lenders against assets.
And today if you -- our Aircraft business is mostly outside the U.S.
But excluding that we're more focused on the U.S.
so we have we believe great opportunities to first to grow our business in the U.S.
but then second also grow outside the U.S.
So we believe that our lending expertise will be able to allow us to grow in places like Brazil in places like China.
And as we talked about the Aircraft business as well as the Railcar business is very attractive right now.
As in the case of aircraft we have all of our deliveries in airplanes over the last 12 months -- over the next 12 months are already leased.
We put another order into Boeing.
We bought these railcars and we found the lease rates on those very attractive.
So basically we are lenders to the small and middle market lenders against assets and we see lots of opportunities both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
for us to grow.
Just then slightly -- a little bit on your comment about the restructuring yes we are in a restructuring mode.
And that will certainly continue at least through the end of this year.
And when you're in a restructuring mode it causes a certain amount of noise in your earnings and you see that as we pay off the high-cost debt and we have to pay the prepayment penalties and there's the FSA accretion.
And so there is noise in our numbers and that will I think persist at least through the end of this year.
And I think you'll start to see us be more normalized as we get into 2012 and 2013.
And any thoughts around when you might be willing to kind of get out and better or describe the CIT story in a different light? Yes.
We are scheduled to start doing that in I guess the first time is June.
And then we'll start to do it more at various conferences.
Our last question comes from the line of Mike Turner from Compass Point.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just wanted to find out maybe if you could talk about what you kind of see as an achievable ROE target for your consolidated business? I mean I guess what we strive to be to over time? Yes.
I think as we've mentioned several times before we're shooting for mid-teens ROEs with the asset mix that we have.
And as John just mentioned we're  kind of on this kind of continued progress toward that.
And it will take us several years to kind of achieve that but all the actions that we're taking we feel position us to get there.
And that's kind of why we highlight some of where the new business volume is coming in those funding areas the continued progress we make on the debt side and kind of using our expertise around kind of lending against assets to kind of build that -- kind of build the returns to those type of levels.
Okay thanks.
And also just for your Vendor business it looks it was about $4 billion in loans.
How much of that is U.S.
versus international? Probably around 50/50 yes.
I will now hand the call over to management for closing remarks.
Okay thank you very much Veronica.
Thank you all for being on the call.
To the extent you have additional questions or you need clarifications you can talk to Ken and the IR team.
We very much appreciate your support and thank you.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stacy and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Stacy and good morning and welcome to CIT's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
We will have a question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks and do ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the queue if you have additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2010 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to certain non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
And for more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website www.cit.com.
I'd like to now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for being on our second quarter earnings call.
I'm going to provide some opening comments and then turn it over to Scott.
And as you heard we will then take questions.
In our second quarter we made good progress on our 2011 objectives.
New business volume in particular was very attractive.
We grew in all 4 of our core businesses.
Our funded volume was up 30% to $1.7 billion in the quarter.
Our credit metrics improved charge-offs nonaccruals and our inflow into nonaccruals all were lower in the quarter.
We made continued progress in restructuring our debt.
As you all know we redeemed $2.5 billion of our Series A debt which unfortunately negatively impacted the reporting on the quarter's results.
We also announced repaying $500 million of our first lien term loan that will get done this month.
We also successfully completed our consent solicitation and exchange offer and we now have a clear roadmap to addressing the remaining high-cost debt and the restrictive covenants that are in that debt.
We continued to grow our originations in CIT Bank and we also were successful in moving our U.S.
vendor platform into the bank.
So we'll now be originating our U.S.
vendor assets in the bank.
And if you look at the full year for the first 6 months of the year about 2/3 of all of our U.S.
volume was funded in the bank.
We maintained very strong capital ratios.
Our total capital is about 20% our Tier 1 capital is 19% and we continued to maintain very high levels of liquidity.
We continue to focus on expenses.
Our expenses as you saw are a little bit higher in this quarter.
And Scott will make some comments about that.
And we continued to focus on and make progress on the written agreement and satisfying as many of the written agreements as possible.
I'm just going to make a couple of comments about the different businesses.
In Corporate Finance we originated over $1 billion in terms of committed volume in the quarter most of that was originated in CIT Bank.
On the trade side domestic factoring volume was up about 4% versus the prior year's quarter.
In terms of our aircraft business our airplanes are 100% leased.
And if you look forward of the 16 new airplanes that we expect to be delivered in the next 12 months all of those are placed.
I'm sure you saw we ordered 50 new Airbus A320neos new engine options.
Those airplanes will get delivered in 2016 through 2019.
And that follows our order for 38 new Boeing 737s which we announced earlier in the year.
We also closed our first Ex-Im financing Export-Import Bank financing for some of the Boeing aircraft that were delivered this year.
On the Rail side our utilization of rail cars if you exclude center beams which are associated with housing our utilization is almost 100%.
If you include the center beams it's about 96% overall.
We see lease rates improving.
We had previously announced that we bought 3 500 new rail cars.
All of those new rail cars have been placed.
And if you were watching the press this morning we announced an additional 5 000 rail car order.
So we're seeing improvement in that business.
On the vendor side as I said we moved the U.S.
origination platform into the bank.
Vendor originated about $600 million of new volume in the quarter.
And vendor is an international business and so we're focusing on growth outside the United States and funding that growth.
And in that regard we successfully put in place a RMB 1.8 billion facility to Fund our China business.
We put in place GBP 100 million U.K.
conduit.
And we're continuing to fund our Brazilian business out of our Brazilian bank using deposits in Brazil.
And then just in terms of CIT Bank itself beyond the progress I already talked about we do expect to launch an Internet deposit capability later this year to give our bank greater flexibility and diversification in its funding.
So with that as an overview I'll turn it over to Scott to get into more detail.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I will review the drivers of our consolidated results discuss the performance of each segment and update you on funding before opening the call for questions.
We reported a net loss of $48 million or $0.24 per share on a pretax of $22 million.
That pretax loss includes $163 million of accelerated FSA discount and fees on the Series A debt we prepaid in May.
Excluding those costs pretax earnings would have been roughly $140 million.
Total assets decreased $3 billion to $48 billion as we used cash for the $2.5 billion Series A redemption.
Finance and leasing assets declined about $900 million $700 million in the Commercial portfolio and just under $200 million in the Consumer portfolio.
With respect to the Commercial portfolio as John mentioned we funded $1.7 billion of new business volume which largely kept pace with our net portfolio collections.
And we sold roughly $700 million of commercial assets including our Canadian Dell portfolio which we announced last quarter.
Assets held for sale increased to about $1.9 billion and includes about $700 million in student loans largely in CIT Bank; $500 million in vendor assets most of those relate to the Dell Europe portfolio; and $400 million in Corporate Finance loans largely nonaccrual assets.
A little bit more color on the Commercial business activity.
New commitments totaled $2.1 billion or 22% sequential increase and nearly doubled the volume from a year ago.
I mentioned that we funded $1.7 billion.
That included over $700 million in Corporate Finance $600 million in vendor and about $400 million in transportation.
As John mentioned the important part is each of these segments reported double-digit sequential and year-over-year increases in new business volume.
CIT Bank originated over 70% of our U.S.
lending volume up from 61% last quarter and 27% a year ago.
And factoring volume held steady at around $6 billion.
Now I'd like to take you through the income statement highlights.
Reported net finance revenue was $69 million down $128 million from the first quarter.
Excluding FSA and the prepayment penalties net finance revenue decreased less than $5 million to $141 million basically reflecting the decline in average earning assets.
These impacts are summarized in the non-GAAP tables on the last page of our press release.
Net finance margins excluding FSA and prepayment penalties was flat with the first quarter about 145 basis points.
However there were some changes in the components.
Asset yields were up about 15 basis points driven by Corporate Finance where we had some interest recoveries on prior charge-offs; and Transportation Finance which benefited from the redeployment of aircraft associated with a bankrupt carrier and increased rail utilization.
However the higher yields were offset by higher funding costs as the second quarter interest expense included cost related to the liability restructuring actions and reduced benefits from prepayments on a secured borrowing the total return swap.
On a run rate basis margin was consistent with the first quarter but continues to be impacted by carrying a high proportion of low-yielding assets such as cash student loans and nonaccruals.
Other income was $240 million down $38 million sequentially with the vast majority of the decline reflecting unfavorable fluctuations in our non-qualifying derivative marks.
In addition gain on sales remained strong at about $120 million.
Fees and other revenue benefited from changes in our aircraft order book and recoveries on pre-FSA charge-offs continued though at a slightly lower level.
As I already mentioned we closed the sale of the Dell Canada platform which included about $350 million in receivables and 70 employees.
That sale closed in June and we received a premium on both the receivables and the business platform.
We also sold about $200 million of Corporate Finance loans roughly half of which were nonaccrual and about $100 million of leased equipment.
Now turning to credit the metrics improved as John mentioned.
Reported net charge-offs were $56 million less than half the first quarter amount with lower net losses in all Commercial segments.
Corporate Finance losses declined from last quarter's high level with improvements in U.S.
middle-market portfolio.
Net charge-offs also benefited from higher FSA -- post-FSA recoveries $33 million this quarter versus $19 million in the first quarter and less than $10 million a year ago.
Nonaccrual loans were also down in all segments declining 19% sequentially to $1.1 billion.
Most of the improvement was in Corporate Finance where we have been very active on the risk management front in both terms of asset sales and workouts.
And John mentioned that new inflows into nonaccrual continued to decline.
The allowance for loan loss increased $22 million sequentially largely due to provisions for new originations exceeding the reductions in specific reserves.
At $424 million the allowance equals about 1.9% of loans.
And if you combine the on-balance sheet allowance with the remaining non-accretable discount of $121 million we have 2.3% coverage against the $23 billion pre-FSA loan book.
Operating expenses increased to $246 million.
We have been focused on controlling expenses and have been successful keeping headcount and employee costs aligned with the asset base.
However in the second quarter we had an increase in servicing expenses some of which pertain to prior periods and higher litigation-related costs.
On a year-to-date basis operating expenses excluding restructuring charges are averaging about $225 million a quarter and we are comfortable with that run rate.
Finally on income taxes we provided $27 million this quarter down from $66 million in the first quarter which included $17 million of discrete items.
The sequential decline principally reflects lower taxable earnings in Canada due in large part to higher credit costs.
In the U.S.
as we've talked before our federal NOL continues to grow and we again recorded offsetting valuation allowances against the related deferred tax asset.
I'd like to move on to a little bit more details about our business segments.
I will focus on sequential trends because I think they are most relevant.
Due to the significant prepayment of the Series A debt interest expense was higher on each segment as we allocated the acceleration of FSA discount but not the prepayment penalty which we kept at corporate.
Corporate Finance pretax income was $51 million decreased mainly because of reduced FSA benefits lower gain on asset sales and fewer recoveries more than offset lower credit cost.
New business activity was strong with committed and funded volume up 29% and 56% respectively.
Finance and leasing assets fell about $300 million as the $700 million of funded volume was offset by portfolio collections and about $200 million in asset sales.
Provision benefited from a 66% decline in net charge-offs and a 20% decline in nonaccruals.
New business yields fell slightly but margins are still in line with our long-term target as roughly 80% of the U.S.
volume for this segment was originated by CIT Bank.
Additionally we are winning more agency roles which improve the overall profitability of this business.
Transportation Finance pretax income was $37 million down $5 million sequentially.
The decline reflects higher interest expense from the debt prepayments I talked about partially offset by $19 million of nonrecurring revenue the majority of which stem from a change in our aircraft order book.
Net lease yields increased.
Air benefited from aircraft redeployment as well as lower maintenance costs.
And as John mentioned the aircraft business benefited from increased utilization higher per diem rentals and lower depreciation as we have been actively scrapping older cars.
Utilization is very strong.
All of our planes are leased and rail car utilization improved to 96%.
Quite a lot of progress from the trough of about 18 months ago.
John mentioned that we had the order book or the order for 50 Airbus aircraft with delivery date starting in 2016.
That follows our order book of -- or our order of 30 Boeing aircraft in the first quarter.
So the total order book stands now at 148 aircraft or roughly $8 billion over the next 7 years.
And CIT Bank originated $250 million of loans in the aerospace and defense sector.
On Trade Finance they had a slight pretax profit as the increased nonspread revenue offset higher interest expense.
Global factoring volume was $6.1 billion.
It was flat sequentially and down slightly from a year ago due to the wind down of the German operation.
The U.S.
factoring volume was up 4% from a year ago.
Factoring commissions were down slightly on lower surcharges reflecting the gradual improvement in the retail credit environment and we saw some of the improvement in our business.
Recoveries contributed to both other income in the provision and nonaccrual balances declined again.
Finally on Vendor Finance they generated $22 million of pretax income up from $14 million in the first quarter.
Finance and leasing assets decreased about $500 million but new business volume increased 10% sequentially and nearly 30% from a year ago excluding the South Pacific business we sold last year.
Moreover the number of active vendors is increasing with good flow from our channel partners.
The portfolio yield fell slightly largely reflecting the sale of higher yielding consumer assets in Canada but new business yields remained healthy in the low double digits.
Credit has continued to show signs of improvement with net charge-offs down slightly and nonaccruals continuing to decline.
We made considerable progress with respect to funding this global business operation in the quarter.
We sourced nearly $500 million of conduit and other fundings in Asia Europe and Latin America.
And now that the U.S.
vendor platform is in CIT Bank we expect roughly half of future volume will be originated by the bank.
However the third quarter will be a transition period.
As John said we made a lot of progress advancing our overall liability restructuring strategy.
We paid down the $2.5 billion of Series A notes in the second quarter.
We also made significant progress addressing restrictive covenants and continue to access the capital markets for cost-efficient funding.
The consent solicitation and exchange offers were extremely important and successful.
Although they did not provide an immediate economic benefit they position us well to execute the balance of our liability strategy focused on lower cost of capital less restrictive covenants and a return to investment grade.
For those less familiar with the transaction we exchanged nearly $9 billion of Series A debt maturing in 2015 through 2017 for Series C debt with the same financial terms but with covenants that are more investment grade-like.
Concurrently we completed the consent solicitation to amend the covenants of the Series A debt maturing in 2015 through '17 to more closely resemble the Series C debt a critical step in ultimately unencumbering the balance sheet.
As a result the redemption of the remaining $1.8 billion of Series A debt due in 2014 is a high priority.
There is roughly $145 million of remaining FSA discount on that paper.
In terms of accessing new capital and renewing existing facilities John mentioned most of these.
We did complete the U.S.
Export-Import Bank financing for $150 million for -- secured by Boeing aircraft.
We established the China facility for our vendor business.
And we also renewed our U.K.
vendor conduit with a longer maturity and significantly reduced all in cost.
We recently prepaid the $500 million in first lien term loan.
Although the loan is carried at a slight premium on the balance sheet there'll be a net charge of approximately $15 million on the prepayment that accelerated deferred debt cost more than offset the expected FSA benefit.
For the balance of 2011 we will continue to advance our liability restructuring strategy which may include paying down more debt further diversifying our funding sources and accessing the capital markets if conditions are favorable.
With respect to CIT Bank John mentioned the progress we are making on the asset side.
On the funding side cash continues to remain strong at nearly $850 million.
We issued over $600 million of brokered CDs in the second quarter at a weighted average cost under 2% and term over 3 years.
And as John said we will advance our deposit diversification strategy with a launch of an Internet deposit platform.
Finally our consolidated capital and liquidity positions remained strong.
We ended the quarter with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 19% and over $10 billion of cash and short-term investments.
So with that I'll turn it back to Stacy and we're glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just a couple of things.
In terms of the litigation charges you referenced in your release what was the amount of those? Was those about $20 million or so? I can't recall if you mentioned that number.
No we didn't disclose the number but it's up from the first quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay Scott.
And then can you just give me an explanation of the benefit the onetime benefit that you got? You referenced a change in your order book and I'm not sure if I understood what that was and what caused that $19 million I believe or so of income during the quarter to be recognized? Yes.
So we had some changes in the order book and there was some FSA associated with that that was accelerated into the quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay I see.
And then just the other question was as far as this tax dispute with Tyco do you have a sense for the timing of the resolution of that issue and then where that stands as of now? I don't have an answer on the timing of resolution.
I mean we have filed our claim with the bankruptcy court.
Expected to kind of hopefully have kind of a hearing sometime in the second half.
But in regards to final resolution and settlement I think that's kind of hard where we are right now to answer that.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Crdit Suisse.
Great.
I wanted to kind of talk a little bit about the concept that you mentioned about Internet deposits.
I mean 3 months ago after the first quarter you talked about potentially making acquisitions to buy deposits.
Does this replace that? Is it supplemental to it? How should we think about that? I think you should think about it as just another diversification step for funding the bank.
It doesn't really replace any other strategy.
It is a stand-alone strategy.
We believe the Internet is an attractive way to diversify our deposit gathering capabilities.
It's quite attractive in terms of raising significant amount of deposits at a relatively low cost.
And you've seen various other people be very successful at it.
And so it's the next step in the diversification of the funding but there will be more to follow.
As we've talked about in the past we want at some point to be able to take commercial deposits particularly from our customers.
And it's certainly possible at some point that we would have retail deposits as well.
So it is just one of the steps in diversifying the funding.
Got it.
And do you -- have you talked about what the size of the commercial loan book is at the bank right now? No.
But it's about $2.2 billion $2.3 billion.
So on that one as the Commercial portfolio has been growing and as we've talked about the student loan portfolio will continue to decrease.
So we have a mix shift in the overall bank.
Would you anticipate selling those student loans this quarter? As I mentioned we have -- we moved $700 million of student loans into held-for-sale.
So we do expect to sell those in the coming quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just have 2 questions actually.
First questio n on the significant improvement in bank originations which I assume is mostly in the Corporate Finance business.
Can you give us a little color on that improvement and what you're seeing from a competitive standpoint? Corporate Finance for you guys is a lot of different businesses a lot of different segments underneath that.
So maybe you can give us a little color on exactly where you're seeing the growth and the opportunities and how you fit in competitively given that so many banks are looking for loan growth these days? Yes.
I would say that as we've talked about in the past we -- the middle market is a broad kind of terminology and kind of our I think niche that we try to stay in is those companies with EBITDA kind of below $40 million.
The competition is still similar to kind of what it has been for many years.
What we're seeing is kind of the core C&amp;I healthcare and certain pockets of the energy sector have been attractive for some of the volume we've been doing.
It's been kind of broad-based.
We've seen a little bit of pricing pressure mainly on the ABL side versus the cash flow.
But again we've seen some of the kind of competition that you're referring to but it's still not having a significant impact on the pricing in the marketplace.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great Okay.
And just a quick follow-up there.
When you see pricing pressure is that mostly just from traditional banks sort of expanding their horizons into your middle-market area or is it other finance companies? No.
I wouldn't say it would be new entries but yes certain other financial institutions are -- would be the ones that are doing that.
I don't think it's the new entries.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And my second question is for John.
You mentioned a clear roadmap to addressing the 7% coupon debt.
And can you just give us a little more color there? And that was a pretty I think positive statement.
I just wanted to see if you had any additional thoughts on the strategies there and the timing.
Well we're not going to comment specifically on the timing because it depends a little bit on the state of the capital markets but it's pretty clear that one of the next steps that we really need to deal with is the 2014s.
And the combination of refinancing the 2014s as well as the consent solicitation and the exchange of the As and the Cs we will be in a position to drop out most of the restrictive covenants that exist in the Series A and have the covenant package look much more like the Series C going forward which as we've said are for the most part investment grade-type covenants.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just last question in terms of market access in the unsecured markets.
You did the transaction in March.
You've done the exchange offer now.
How are things looking? I don't -- the debt markets in general aren't quite as healthy as they were back then.
But do you feel like you've made enough progress that accessing the debt markets is something that you feel comfortable that is on the horizon? I think we definitely feel comfortable with that.
As you said we've had major activity in both the first and the second quarter.
The market did back up as you're well aware of in June and it's kind of started to kind of come back a little bit but still a lot of uncertainty related to the U.S.
government and some of the kind of European issues.
And our hope would be is that it stabilizes and we're able to access the capital market at attractive rates.
I think you should think about us as we'll be opportunistic.
We have no particular pressure but if we do get an improvement in the market and there was the opportunity to access it I think that it's likely that we would.
Your next question comes from the line of Bruce Harting with Barclays Capital.
Just if you could clarify what you just said you said you'd refinance the 2014 maturities.
Is that through prepaying or refinancing? But if I could just hold that for a second.
You had 2 great slides at your last conference presentation.
One that showed financial results versus long-term targets with the finance margin going from first quarter actual of 2.24% to 3% to 4%.
And then another slide showing your portfolio mix evolving with a target of $40 billion to $45 billion in terms of finance and leasing assets by segment.
And it's interesting that the mix is Vendor Finance 25% to 35%; Transportation Finance 25%to 35%; Trade Finance 5% to 15%; and then Corporate Finance 25% to 35%.
You're at that -- at the low end of your target.
You're already at the Corporate Finance I'm sorry -- you're at $8 billion of Corporate Finance now.
You're -- the low end of your target would be $12 billion.
You're already at the Transportation Finance number of $12 billion but Vendor Finance you're at $5 billion relative to a goal of $12 billion.
And those are not the stretch goals.
Just wondering when you put that out what kind of timeframe were you using for that in the margin goal.
And for the margin goal is that mostly changes on the liability side Scott or more getting to this mix of assets? And then just sort of an adjunct to that if you were to -- I know you can't really answer the acquisition question but would those targets still be the likely asset targets in the event you were to find an acquisition? Okay.
Well why don't you deal with the margin piece and I'll talk a little bit about the asset mix.
So your question on the margin piece I would say probably at least 50% of the improvement in the margin will come from improvements on the interest expense line.
And then I think the other improvements will be a combination of the asset mix which is you kind pointed out especially on the vendor side it has a kind of high yield.
And so those are kind of -- the asset mix as well as the refinancing of the debt.
The third element that we have to kind of do over this transition period is to kind of reduce our as I mentioned kind of the low-yielding assets.
So we have $10 billion of cash.
And as we kind of do some of the efforts that we're doing that will reduce the amount of cash we need to carry the student loans as we've said before will kind of wind down over time.
And then the progress we're seeing in nonaccrual assets all will benefit to getting to the margin lines that we've laid out there.
And then in terms of the question about the asset mix I mean you're obviously correct.
In terms of looking at the portfolio mix -- and you have to understand that the portfolio does get impacted by opportunities in the marketplace.
And so the vendor assets because of the sale of the Dell portfolios shrunk and we're certainly very actively looking at growing the vendor assets.
And it is possible that from time to time we would have the ability to buy portfolios in that business which we would look at.
And then in terms of the aircraft in particular but also rail there's -- that as you heard about it in our results it's a very attractive marketplace right now.
We're able to deploy both airplanes and rail cars at very attractive rates.
And so we're taking advantage of that and that's causing that area to grow.
So that's an optimal mix but it's going to be impacted by what the opportunities are in the marketplace and it will certainly change a little bit over time.
And I don't know whether you actually asked a question on the 2014s or not but the basic answer is we do have a lot of cash.
We do build up a lot of cash.
So whether we use cash or whether we actually access the capital markets we could do either or both as it relates to prepaying the 2014s.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Fandetti with Citigroup.
John on the Internet deposit strategy are you -- is it possible that you would make an acquisition there or would you build that internally? And then can you talk a little bit about the timing the ramp-up and would those expenses be in the guidance that you sort of alluded to earlier? Yes.
The thought right now is that we're going to build it up ourselves.
The bank has a lot of liquidity not only cash but we've talked about before the student loans are really cash alternatives.
So we have the ability to monetize the student loans.
So we're not really in a great need of cash in the bank.
We believe that it's cheaper for us to grow our own Internet deposit capability and we don't really feel that we need to buy any right now.
And based upon the marketplace and our needs I think it's very attractive and not very expensive for us simply to raise our -- raise the Internet deposits ourselves.
And yes those expenses are built into the numbers that Scott talked about.
Okay.
And then on the Corporate Finance book I mean obviously the new originations are strong but the portfolio looks like it continues to run down.
Do you know when that might turn into growth? Just in respect of the Corporate Finance book? Yes.
I mean again I think overall we've been saying that we -- overall CIT that we expect the Commercial portfolio to kind of turn kind of late in the fourth quarter.
I think on Corporate Finance we're getting closer to that the gap between the new business origination and what I would call normal collections.
The 2 items that we will have some variation on that answer will be around the prepayment speeds.
So those have still been elevated in the first and second quarters as companies are refinancing in the market.
And then number two is you'll see some as I talked about we're actively managing kind of the nonaccrual book.
And if we find opportunities to leverage the markets to sell those assets we will do that.
So I think those are the 2 things in the second half that I think are -- one's market based the other one is kind of our evaluation of the credit.
But the trend has continued over the last couple of quarters to narrow.
So we feel good about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Bruce with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question really kind of specifically relates to that.
I guess this is not to be skeptical but when you look at some bigger and stronger competitors that are in the market where do you see CIT stacking up from just a competitive advantage standpoint? I mean obviously the volumes speak to that to a degree.
But if you could just really highlight where you see your competitive advantage in this market that would be very helpful.
Well I mean that's a broad statement.
So I think it's probably better to talk a little bit about the competitive forces for each one -- some of the business segments versus trying to do in aggregate because I think you're probably focused more on Corporate Finance which is a broader kind of a bank market.
But on the vendor piece I think the competition there has kind of been a lot of players that have been in that industry.
As John mentioned most of the shrinkage has been both some programs that have moved away but the majority of the core business is continuing to grow at the market rate.
So if you kind of use some of the industry benchmarks we're kind of staying at those levels or above.
So I think that's a good sign of our brand and competitive forces.
On the transportation and rail businesses I think on the air business we're one of the top lessors.
And in the rail business we're 1 of the top 3 also.
So I think given those dynamics we are continuing to perform well.
And on the Corporate Finance side we're leveraging -- CIT has been in the Corporate Finance business for many decades and our relationships and expertise in the middle market I defined kind of below the $40 million EBITDA continues to be very beneficial for us in the marketplace.
And we don't stray back up into the what I would call the more highly syndicated loan market which is some of our larger competitors play in.
Just to complete those last business on the trade side we're the number one factor in the country.
We have been for a long time and we're substantially above #2.
That's a business that's going to be dependent on growth in retail sales and activity and -- because it's primarily retail-dominated.
But we're clearly the leader in that business.
Okay.
And just to maybe kind of follow up on that particular point.
I mean you'd mentioned that the volume levels now are effectively kind of beginning to eclipse the pay downs.
I mean do you think that you're really in a position for the balance sheet to grow aside from other asset sales in the student lending side in particular? I mean do you feel like you're at a point where the balance sheet can see net organic growth? On the commercial side.
So as you said student loans will be something in aggregate.
So that's why we kind of break it out for you.
But as I said based on our current kind of outlook and forecast we see that turn happening late in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And maybe just one final question and I'll jump back in the queue if there's time.
Do you have a target in terms of how much deposit financing you would like to ideally get within the bank subsidiary? The answer to that is really dependent on the asset growth in the bank.
We as I mentioned we have a lot of liquidity in the bank right now and we have a lot of cash equivalents in the form of the student loans.
So we as Scott mentioned we are selling CDs in the bank because we want to maintain access to the marketplace.
And we'll be rolling out the Internet deposit capabilities.
So we're just going to balance the overall liquidity in the bank to diversify the funding and then use the liquidity we have there.
But there's not a specific number of I want X amount of these type of deposits because we're going adjust it as we see asset growth.
Okay.
And if I understood it right you're expecting 50% of the new volume to be originated at the bank? That was just for the vendor platform that we moved in in the third quarter.
That was just vendor.
It's a significantly higher percentage.
And so in total we're currently at 70% of our U.S.
lending volume is in the bank.
So majority of our lending volume going forward in the U.S.
will be originated in the bank.
Probably there's going to be some transition in the third quarter in vendor.
So we'll probably be at the full run rate kind of -- in the late fourth quarter early first quarter of next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
You talked about this number before but when you look at your balance sheet how much sort of corporate cash do you have? And I know Scott you ran through the numbers.
But what would be the GAAP charge associated with paying down the 2014s? And what is the total sort of fresh start adjustment you have against your 7% notes? Yes so several questions.
So we start with the cash.
Our cash is about $10 billion in the second quarter.
Part of that is restricted in our operating subsidiaries.
That's about half.
The bank cash as I said was about $800 million $850 million.
And then at the parent company we're kind of over $4 billion.
So I think given that Henry as we continue through transition like the vendor platform into the bank and some of the other platforms as we extend the maturities on our conduits overall the liquidity needs at the parent company will reduce over the next couple of quarters which would allow us to use that cash to either pay down debt or to invest in growth.
So I think that number -- the cash balance will continue to go down as we progress on the roadmap John laid out or talked about in regards to the liability side of our business.
In regards to the 2014s if we did that prior to January 1 of next year we would have the 2% premium.
And the FSA on that I think I mentioned in my transcript was somewhere around $145 million that would be accelerated.
I guess the other piece was what's the FSA remaining on the remaining Series A? No on the 7% notes some of which are As.
All the 7% notes.
We can get that from the Q I'm sure.
Yes well the Q has the total debt so it's both the secured and unsecured.
And so you're going to have -- on the 7% you're going to have a combination of the As that converted to Cs as well as the normal As.
But I would circle back with Ken in regards to the specifics around that but it's going to be a significant portion of the remaining discount.
But it's not going to be 100% because we have some of that against our secured borrowings.
Also I think the argument could be made that your lease portfolio was probably worth more like par than the current carrying costs.
If we were to do our own analysis on that could you give us some benchmarks to use in terms of how current lease portfolios are being valued and priced? I mean obviously there's probably nothing you can do on an accounting front to recapture that discount but it's obviously not warranted in this marketplace.
Well I guess the best avenue if you kind of look at the rail business which took the significant piece of the mark coming out of the 2009 if you look at some of the financings secured financing and the appraised value versus what we're carrying on the books it is significantly above that mark.
And as you said it kind of amortizes it through the depreciation line kind of over 15 years or so.
So on that one we feel good that the asset valuations have come up significantly.
And that's kind of some of the rationale for some of our recent orders.
On the aircraft side we see that in the sense that as part of our normal business model we do sell certain aircraft on a routine basis to manage exposures and concentrations.
And we've consistently had gains on those sales.
So I guess that's the best barometer other than the fact we do do appraisals on an annualized basis that also give us confidence that the actual kind of market value exceeds our book value.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Taiano with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> I guess my first question is on the loan sales on the quarter.
Could you repeat -- how much were they in aggregate and how much of the loan sales were nonaccrual loans in total? The total on the -- the nonaccrual loans I mean really was in the Corporate Finance side which we said was about half of the $200 million that we sold.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
So was that pretty much all the nonaccruals out of the total amount of loan sales? Yes.
So we sold about $700 million of assets.
As I mentioned the majority of that was the Canadian portfolio right which we -- which was not a nonaccrual asset.
Right.
So that was above -- a platform that we discussed in the last quarter.
Corporate Finance we sold a couple of hundred million.
And I would say at least half of that was nonaccrual.
And then other leased equipment as I said just a minute ago is just kind of routine either end of lease residual gains or some portfolio management which is not that they were nonaccruals.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
And is it fair to say -- can you give us some sort of color on where the nonaccruals are being sold? Are they generally higher than where you have them marked? Yes.
Yes they've been significantly higher than what we've been carrying them at.
L.P.</strong> And then just in terms of the repayment of high-cost debt you paid down $500 million of the first lien debt subsequent to the end of the quarter.
Is it fair to say that going through the back half of the year that you may -- that you have a greater preference to paying down that debt as opposed to the Series A that have the 2% prepayment penalty? Or does that really not factor into your decision? I would say it's a variable on the decision but I think a lot of it is when John mentioned a road map we have many different activities that we're trying to address in regards to our capital structure.
And so what we're -- our kind of key premises are to as we have excess cash to pay down the debt and also deal with some of the other kind of principles and objectives around covenants as well as kind of the debt maturities.
So I think as we get in the fourth quarter the prepayment penalty does become something where economically between that as January makes it tough economically.
But we will continue to use our cash as we have excess liquidity.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
Last question if I can.
Just on the student loan portfolio the decision to move the $700 million into held-for-sale.
Is that -- is the reason for that is you feel like you're going to need the liquidity for loan growth in the next couple of quarters? Or was there something specific about that portion of the portfolio that you no longer felt like it was economic for you to keep? Or just can you maybe give us a sense of what drove that decision? I think it's just normal course.
I mean we've been kind of selling student loans kind of periodically.
And so there's no -- the assets there's no issues with the asset quality and it was just a matter in regards to -- part of it is expectations of liquidity to fund new business in the bank as well as feeling that we can get some good pricing in the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> My first question is around Corporate Finance new business volume.
Just eyeballing it here it looks like it's almost doubled every quarter for the past 3 quarters.
I mean part of that is sort of the growth in capital markets activity generally in new business volumes.
But I mean you had a pretty impressive growth.
How long should we expect these doublings to occur because clearly you had -- historical origination franchise was a multiple of where we are today.
And I'm just trying to get your current sense for the trajectory of that segment of the business.
I'll take -- I'm going to say -- I'm sure our business leaders are listening to the call.
But I would say that doubling from the current run rate of $1 billion is probably going to be challenging.
But I think as we've said before the business has really kind of continued to focus on the niche market.
We have benefited from some of the market activity around refinancing.
But we have seen in the last couple of quarters an increasing amount of new supply from transactions which has helped the overall growth of the business.
And the tough part on that one is it is a little bit -- that business is a little bit dependent on kind of what's going on in the overall capital markets.
And then number two is that the third quarter traditionally has been kind of a little bit seasonally slower because of holidays and vacations those type of things.
But we continue to see a good pipeline in that business and our expectation is we'd like to continue to grow but probably not at a doubling rate.
Inc.</strong> Fair point.
And then switching gears to the international Vendor Finance platform that -- and you've talked about much more recently and specifically emphasizing China and Brazil and the associated different funding sources for those.
Can you talk to us a little bit more about the types of vendor businesses that those might entail? And then remind me how big your Brazilian bank is both assets and deposits and how flexible that platform is to expanding liquidity.
And then one final touch-up question on the capital if you don't mind.
Okay.
Well I guess so the businesses that we're doing in both Brazil and in China are very similar to our core U.S.
business.
So it's office products and technology.
And so part of it is an extension of some of our global partners which was kind of the baseline.
And then both the teams in Brazil and China have continued to diversify with local partners to grow the business.
The Brazil business is a couple hundred million dollars of assets.
The bank funding we expect to kind of fund about a half of that.
And we're continuing to look at other ways to grow that but it's a sizeable since I guess 6 months ago it was pretty much 0.
So I think it's been a good process and has been helpful to that business.
In China the facilities that we just put in place as John mentioned and I think I talked a little bit about is really significant in regards to the backing of kind of some major banks in China which I think will help us grow that business and fund it very economically.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then a touch-up question on capital.
As I look at some of our public -- some of the public comps for the transportation business and I think if I understand your slide correctly the capital allocation you had was 15% for the transportation business.
But if I look at some of the public comps that are out there and granted they may not be as big as you all are but it doesn't -- it seems like they're running with more capital than the 15% target that you've alluded to.
Is there a benefit that you guys have that maybe an independent stand-alone may not by being part of a broader organization? Or what's really -- can you maybe help guide me in terms of what I might be missing by just looking at the relative comps? Well I think you have to -- we put transportation which is a combination of the rail business and the aircraft.
So the aircraft would have a higher capital requirement than the rail car business.
So we kind of showed a blended.
So aircraft would be a couple points higher than that number and rail would be a little bit lower than that number.
So on public comps at least if you talk about the air industry most of those are not -- they're kind of independent finance companies and are part of a larger organization.
But as we've talked about the capital that we put up includes risk-weighted assets for the order book.
And so we feel kind of the metrics that we have calculated are consistent with kind of the industry and we can kind of follow up with Ken later to kind of go through some of that.
And on the rail business again there's not a lot of public comps that I think you can use.
There's one big one.
But I think our analysis as we've said was kind of preliminary.
We continue to update it and adjust it based on new Basel II Basel III kind of changes.
But we feel pretty good with the kind of the leverage we have on those businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner with the Compass Point.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just wanted to find out I know you can't transfer existing vendor or other loans into the bank.
But is it a possibility to go out and buy portfolios and possibly put them in the bank say sell the student portfolio and buy another higher-yielding portfolio? Is that something you could do and would entertain? Yes and yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up in your Aircraft Leasing business.
You talked about the large order you've placed for the A320neos.
Some of the other publicly-traded companies in this space have been talking about doing sale leasebacks rather than placing orders for the newer aircraft and the A320s and the like.
And I was just wondering if you had a view as to the one versus the other? Why not enter into more sale leasebacks? Recently American had a transaction one of your competitors in that business.
So could you talk about your preference about one versus the other why not pursue sale leasebacks versus purchasing new A320neos? Well one the A320neo is not going to be -- first delivery I think is 2015.
So it's -- I think some of the sale leaseback transactions are for kind of existing technology and existing aircraft.
And so I think there's -- we do look at sale leaseback transactions also.
So I think it's a piece of the kind of strategy of filling out an order book to have the new technology and those deliveries for our customers balanced with on the short term some of the sale leasebacks help in regards to our portfolio risk management and diversification.
So we do look at that Sameer it's just a matter of balancing kind of today technology versus future technology.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Yes that's helpful.
I mean the reason I was asking the question clearly the A320neo deliveries won't start happening for a few years.
It just seemed like what we're hearing is that the pricing on the sale leaseback transactions could potentially be more attractive for the lessors than purchasing new aircraft.
And maybe that's not really true across the board but that's really what I was trying to get some color for from you.
And what sounds like is that really there could be trade-offs between one approach versus the other would you agree with that? No I don't really think so.
I think they're really different.
I mean we do do sale leasebacks and we look at sale leasebacks.
And so -- it's just a question of the economics of them.
The forward order book is a valuable thing in its own right because our business strategy is to have the most technologically advanced most fuel-efficient and newest aircraft.
And so it's not really one or the other.
It is -- we want to have a pipeline of new aircraft which both the Boeing order and the Airbus order give us.
And so that we have -- we can continue to maintain a very new and technically efficient fleet.
But that's really separate from the attractiveness of the sale leaseback which if we see attractive opportunities we'll do them.
Our final question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Crdit Suisse.
John you had mentioned that about $4 billion of the cash is at the parent.
Could you talk about what the level that you would want to maintain and how much of that is available for the other uses you described paying down debt or buying portfolios and the like? Yes I mean it's Scott.
I mean I think the requirements is just a hard question to answer with respect to a lot of it is dependent on certain actions that we have and certain stress scenarios that we need to do.
And as we transition the portfolio we look at this on a kind of monthly basis in regards to what liquidities that we need to maintain with respect to the portfolio.
And our goal is to continue to drive that liquidity down at the parent company and also to free up cash in other places to help with our liability restructuring.
Okay.
Any kind of insight as to the types of portfolios that you're looking at at the bank? I mean there -- any types of portfolios would be consistent with the business we currently do and be consistent with the type of assets that the bank is familiar with and comfortable with buying both in terms of the nature of the assets and the credit quality of the assets.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well we thank you all for joining us this morning and for all your good questions.
As always the Investor Relations team will be available for anything we didn't cover on the call.
Thank you very much and have a great day.
Thank you all.
That does conclude today's call.
Thank you for participating.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Modesta and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Modesta and good morning everyone.
And welcome to CIT's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
We will have a question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
We do ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the queue if you have additional questions.
We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
And these forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to our business please refer to our 2010 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to certain non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
And for more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'd now like to turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you for being on the call.
Despite a difficult economic environment and volatility in the marketplace CIT had a good third quarter.
Our volume was up sequentially across all of our business segments.
We originated $2.3 billion of new loan commitments of which $1.9 billion was funded.
Our credit metrics improved.
Our charge-offs nonaccruals and inflows into nonaccrual all were down.
We continue to make progress on restructuring our debt.
We repaid $3 billion of the first-lien term loan.
We put in place a new $2 billion revolver with a much lower cost.
And we redeemed all of the 2014 maturity Series A debt although a piece of that was done in October.
But with the reduction of that 2014 debt most of the restrictive covenants were released.
And we also took advantage of the disruptive market and repurchased about $0.75 billion of our Series A debt in the market at a discount.
As you all know we launched CIT's Internet bank that went off very successfully.
It's only been 5 days but it's been raising deposits.
And we originated 80% of our U.S.
volume in CIT Bank.
Those of you who would like to make a deposit please go to bankoncit.com.
We're very happy to take your money.
Our operating expenses were in line for the quarter.
And if you go across our businesses Corporate Finance we originated $1.2 billion of new commitments in the quarter to over 65 borrowers.
So we are in fact lending to small and middle-market companies.
Our Vendor business which is also mostly just small and middle-market companies funded over $600 million in new volume.
Our Trade Finance business which is our factoring business for very small companies our factoring volume was up in the quarter.
And in the Transportation side our commercial aircraft 100% of our planes were leased and all of our new deliveries in the next 12 months are leased.
On the rail side our utilization of railcars was 97%.
But if you excluded centerbeams which are the cars that are used for hauling lumber the utilization rate was over 99%.
So if you look at our businesses -- and our business is obviously just a snapshot but it's a mix of businesses on the commercial side if you look at our businesses we do not see a double-dip recession in the U.S.
We see slow growth in the U.S.
but still positive.
And then in our businesses outside the U.S.
particularly Asia and Latin America we see faster growth.
We do -- we are continuing to make progress completing the written agreement items.
We're continuing to work to complete the vast majority of them by the end of the year and our -- we're happy with the progress that we made in the quarter.
With that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We reported a net loss of $16 million or $0.08 per share on pretax income of $14 million.
Pretax income included $169 million of costs associated with our liability restructuring actions.
Excluding these costs and the net FSA accretion benefits pretax earnings were $89 million up from $17 million in the second quarter on the same basis with the improvement driven by lower funding and credit costs.
First I'd like to make sure everyone understands how the costs related to the debt actions impacted the P&amp;L.
We added a table in the last page of the press release in the non-GAAP disclosures that I'd like to walk you through.
It starts with reported pretax income.
The next line is net FSA accretion.
Excluding the impact of debt prepayments which is trending down as the remaining accretable discount on loans declines.
The accretable discount on loans was just over $800 million at quarter end.
Next the negative impact of accelerating the FSA discount on debt we repaid last quarter was $113 million.
Remember we prepaid $2.5 billion of Series A debt in the second quarter.
This quarter the cost was only $2 million.
The negative impact of accelerating the discount on the Series A debt was offset by the benefit of accelerating the FSA premium that remained on the first-lien debt.
Prepayment penalties which also float through interest expense were $20 million this quarter.
2% of the $1 billion we prepaid down from $50 million last quarter.
The last line titled Loss on Debt Extinguishment reflects the write-off of unamortized original issue discount and fees associated with refinancing the first-lien debt.
So as you can see from the table pretax income excluding FSA accretion and debt-related items improved.
Total assets decreased $3.5 billion largely reflecting the use of cash and short-term investments to pay down debt.
Financing leasing assets declined over $0.5 billion about $400 million in the commercial portfolio and $150 million in the consumer book.
With respect to the commercial portfolio as John mentioned we funded $1.9 billion of new business volume which effectively offset collections and depreciation.
However we sold more than $700 million of assets including $300 million in transportation equipment $200 million of corporate finance loans and $200 million of vendor finance assets.
Turning to the income statement.
Net finance margin excluding FSA and prepayment penalties was 160 basis points up 15 basis points sequentially.
Lower funding costs were clearly the most significant driver of economic margin improvement.
While our liability restructuring actions reduced our cost of debt we also had reduced benefit from the Total Return Swap.
Pre-FSA asset yields were stable benefiting from lower depreciation expense since depreciation is suspended on equipment designated as held for sale.
The benefit to the margin was largely offset in other income as we marked down the value of the equipment.
Other income was $235 million down slightly from the second quarter.
The decline was driven by lower fees and other revenue including the equipment write-downs I just mentioned.
Non-spread revenue continues to benefit from strong gain on asset sales but lending-related fees remain challenged given the economic environment.
Credit metrics continue to improve as charge-offs nonaccrual loans and inflows to nonaccruals were down from prior quarter and prior year.
These positive trends were reflected in the provision line.
The allowance decreased modestly to $414 million but remained unchanged at 1.9% of financial receivables.
Combining the reserve with the remaining nonaccretable discount coverage against pre-FSA receivables remained flat at 2.3%.
As John mentioned operating expenses decreased to $220 million in line with our stated expectations.
And finally on income taxes we provided $31 million this quarter which is down slightly from the first half run rate.
International earnings declined due to the sale of Dell Canada in the second quarter and we had an $8 million of discrete benefits.
In the U.S.
we continue to grow the federal NOL and record offsetting valuation allowances against the related deferred tax asset.
That is why it's more meaningful to look at the amount of the tax provision as opposed to the effective rate.
My key business takeaways are the commercial portfolio stabilized; this funded volume effectively offset collections and depreciation; credit metrics improved; CIT Bank is originating a greater proportion of total funded volume 80% in the third quarter up from 70% in the second quarter and about 50% a year ago; and margins continue to benefit from our liability restructuring actions.
Now I'd like to get into the individual business segments focusing on sequential trends.
Corporate Finance pretax income decreased to $37 million as lower FSA accretion and gains on asset sales offset lower credit and operating cost.
New business activity was strong in a typically slower period.
Committed volume increased 9% with funded volume of roughly $700 million despite a significant decline in the overall middle-market volume.
Finance and leasing assets fell $240 million due to asset sales and the impact of foreign exchange translations.
And the assets held for sale remained at $400 million of which roughly 75% are nonaccrual.
Committed volume was evenly split between cash flow and asset base loans.
Most of the deal flow was to a diverse group of commercial and industrial companies including JWC Environmental which makes waste processing equipment; Woodcraft Industries a cabinet manufacturer; PMC Group a chemical manufacturer; and Steak 'n Shake a popular restaurant chain.
These are very much main street America companies and deals in the center of our strike zone.
Also we are seeing good results from the investment in our energy team.
Volume this quarter was $230 million including a good mix of project finance and ABL.
New loan yields are fairly stable although mix does matter.
Pricing on cash flow loans improved over 50 basis points from the prior quarter while ABL pricing experienced some pressure.
We are winning more agency roles but syndication activity in the middle market is limited as many transactions are still club-oriented.
Margins continue to be strong as CIT Bank originated over 90% of the U.S.
committed and funded volume.
Turning to Transportation Finance.
Pretax income increased to $100 million on lower interest expense higher gain on sales and proceeds from an insurance claim.
Financing and leasing assets were up about $100 million as we added a net of 6 aircraft to the fleet including scheduled deliveries and some sale-leaseback transactions.
Portfolio lease yields were fairly stable as improvements in Rail mitigated some slight compression in Aerospace.
As John mentioned utilization is strong.
All aircraft are leased and rail utilization improved to 97%.
Moreover the next 12 months of aircraft deliveries are fully placed and we also placed all of this year's and over 3/4 of next year's scheduled railcar deliveries.
Trade finance pretax income increased to $11 million.
Factoring volume was $6.8 billion up about 10% from the second quarter which is a typical seasonal increase and domestic volume increased slightly from a year ago.
Commission dollars reflect the increased volume while commission rates were essentially flat.
Credit quality remained stable.
Net charge-offs were only $2 million.
However nonaccrual-s increased $20 million and recoveries were down sequentially impacting both the provision and other income lines.
Finally on Vendor Finance which generated $77 million of pretax income.
Finance and leasing assets decreased about $270 million driven by asset sales.
The largest of which was $125 million of underperforming European assets that we sold at a sizable gain.
Credit metrics further improved with nonaccrual and net charge-offs down.
The latter of which benefited from some unusually large recoveries.
The average portfolio yield increased benefiting from the suspension of the depreciation on assets held for sale.
New business volume exceeded $600 million up 10% sequentially and nearly 25% from a year ago excluding the Dell Canada business we sold last quarter.
While the average yield of new business volume was down slightly CIT Bank originated about 75% of the U.S.
volume in the third quarter which helps the margin.
We continue to see strong growth in Asia and Latin America mainly China and Brazil.
In fact in the third quarter we booked nearly $200 million of volume in these regions; and year-to-date we have done nearly $0.5 billion.
That's roughly 1/3 of new business volume.
And as John mentioned these regions are growing significantly faster than the U.S.
Moving onto funding.
We continue to make progress advancing our liability restructuring roadmap.
In addition to the debt repayments we discussed previously we closed a $2 billion committed bank facility which was a significant milestone.
The new first-lien facility is at a much lower cost currently LIBOR plus 275 with no floor down from LIBOR 450 and 1.75% floor.
Since it is also a revolver as oppose to a term loan it enables us to more effectively manage cash and reduce negative carry.
And finally its covenants are similar to the Series C debt whereby the general lien on collateral falls away when the Series A debt is repaid.
We issued about $580 million of U.S.
CDs at an average cost of 150 basis points with an average turn of over 3 years.
We also raised some additional deposits in Brazil and renewed $0.5 billion committed conduit at a lower cost and longer tenor.
Bank holding company liquidity remains strong with $4 billion committed and available including $3.2 billion of cash and short-term investments and $800 million of undrawn revolver capacity.
Since the beginning of 2010 we have eliminated or refinanced over $15 billion of first- and second-lien debt including the $7.5 billion of first-lien debt $6 billion of Series A notes and $2.1 billion of Series B notes.
We have lowered our cost to debt and improved our funding flexibility and are well positioned to execute the balance of our liability restructuring roadmap.
For instance now that we have eliminated the 2014 Series A debt we have removed most of the restrictive covenants and can realize the benefits of the consent exchange offers.
We can now address the capital structure of certain subsidiaries to lower costs and improve operational flexibility.
Furthermore all the $15 billion of the 7% Series A and C notes are callable at par starting January 2012.
Refinancing the $6.5 billion of remaining Series A debt is a priority because once it is repaid our balance sheet largely becomes unencumbered.
We have made a tremendous amount of progress over the past 18 months and we'll continue to advance against our roadmap.
With that I'd like to turn it back to Modesta and take your questions.
[qa/&gt; Can you talk about what your target deposit growth strategy is over the next few quarters and also what your maturity schedule is on your brokered CDs? Sure.
So the deposit growth will be dependent on asset growth.
So in the third quarter in terms of bank-funded volume it was about $835 million.
That got funded with a combination of cash the bank has about $800 million of cash; brokered CDs which Scott just gave you the average maturity of the brokered CDs almost about 3 years.
And then now with our Internet deposits our Internet deposits we only have been raising them for 5 days but the Internet deposits are running a little over 1 year weighted average maturity.
And their weighted average cost is about 1.2%.
So we'll use a mixture -- and we also have student loans for sale.
So it will be a combination of those four funding sources.
Yes.
On the brokered CDs our weighted portfolio is just about 3 years to match up with some of our asset classes.
Okay.
And you also saw some pretty consistent across-the-board credit improvement in the quarter and I think John you commented on that you're not seeing sign of a double dip in the U.S.
Could you give us a little bit more color on what you're seeing on the credit front? Well I think on the -- what we've -- remember we marked our book down so we've been kind of working through some of those.
On the new business we've really been focused on the structure of the deals and transactions.
And I think that we're kind of staying firm in regards to making sure the structure and pricing are consistent with our underwriting parameters.
And then overall the -- as I said I think the U.S.
economy is growing it's just growing slowly.
It's not creating a lot of jobs but when you look at the utilization rates that we see in Rail when you look at the kind of volume that we're originating across the board the -- I'm more optimistic about the U.S.
economy than you would get if you were watching the market or watching CNBC.
Okay.
And can you provide us any kind of sense of what we should expect for the provision line over the next couple of years? We don't kind of look at the -- give guidance around that but I think we're trying to get to some of the long-term targets we have already laid out at several conferences.
So we'd like to be in the provision line somewhere around 100 basis points depending on mix of business.
I guess given that Series A note paydowns are sort of the priority.
I mean given your expectation for cash flows going into next year do you expect that to be a 2012 event when -- for the full $6.5 billion or do you think that more than likely it would spill into the following year? I would say kind of regular cash flow won't be enough to pay down the $6.5 billion so it would have to be a combination of some capital market issuances.
We do have alternative liquidity on certain conduits and other structures that we're looking to fill up with assets and then we will have some of the cash proceeds from some of the asset sales.
That would be available for kind of Series A debt repayments.
But I can't say that -- it's kind of hard to figure out whether we can do it all in 2012 but we're focused on doing as fast as possible as well as maintaining a prudent cash balance.
Okay.
And then I guess just to follow up on the Corporate Finance segment you'd said the fundings were down a little on the asset base revolvers.
What was the primary drivers of that? Was that just the yields there are getting more competitive or something else? I think it's really on the ABL.
So we had a little bit more ABL than we did in the second quarter.
And with those based on current economic the start-off funded rate is kind of not at what we've seen historically.
And so what you're -- we're going to do is hopefully with economic growth that John talked about and people becoming more confident that those revolvers will be drawn down for building inventory to kind of building inventory or to finance growth.
And we just haven't seen that in the last couple of quarters yet.
But I don't think it's a -- it's not a kind of a concern for us because we like the kind of the credit profile and having a good balance between cash flow and asset base.
So in other words it's more customer confidence that is the driver of that than necessarily pricing at this point? Well I mean -- yes I mean it's definitely on the funded nature of that it's really what the customers feel they need to draw when we do the original underwriting.
But in regards to pricing pricing is definitely tighter in the ABL given the credit profile that versus some of the cash flows I've mentioned that the pricing kind of went up a little bit versus the second quarter.
You mentioned in the release that you had about a 15 basis point improvement kind of in your core margin.
What would that look like kind of at the end of the quarter if all of the repayments you had done were fully in place and maybe you can give some comments about what that might look like in Q3 -- in Q4? In Q4 well I think we're still -- as we talked about in previous quarters we still have some items running through the pre-FSA margin line that kind of distort and put some noise in there.
The main one is the cash collateral prepayments we've experienced on our TRS structure Total Return Swap.
That will continue to decline in the fourth quarter or declined significantly in third quarter as prepayments have slowed down.
And as such some of the improvements from the debt refinancings and payoffs that we've had are going to be muted into the fourth quarter.
And I would say that going into 2012 some of that noise will be out of there and will get to more of a kind of steady state.
So the amounts that declined in Q3 and will decline further in Q4 would be about how much? I'd say 25 to 30 basis points.
Each quarter? No just in the third quarter.
So I think it will kind of -- it will go down a little bit more in the fourth quarter in regards to the percentage.
But by the same token you had -- you refinanced debt across Q3 so some of that benefit wasn't there yet so...
Yes.
Well that's -- so if you look at kind of the actions you're going to -- we got some of that benefit in the third quarter somewhere around 45 basis points or something.
And then given the payoff of the Series A at the end of the quarter and some of the stuff that we did in October my sense is that that will continue to flow through in the fourth quarter but again be offset by the lower benefit from the Total Return Swap.
I just wanted to piggyback off of the last question.
When looking at your opportunities for the fourth quarter you're obviously starting at a very low -- a lower cost of funds basis.
If you are doing kind of an end-of-period analysis what would your cost of funds look like right about now I mean given if everything that had been done and what are the opportunities in the fourth quarter? Yes.
So if you just look at the kind of the -- only the coupon not any of the deferred fees amortization but if you just look at the coupon based on the actions we've taken to date it's going to be somewhere in the -- below 5%.
And so that's come down from over 6% 12 18 months ago.
So I think there's been a lot of progress kind of on that front.
And so as we continue to grow the business and the bank and then pay off some of the Series A that will continue to decrease the overall borrowing costs for the company.
And John you mentioned that you are making a lot of progress with your regulators.
What is the final implication of that? I know when we look at your slide you have a capital ratio that's significantly lower than your current capital ratio.
Can you give us a sense in 2012? Do we see buybacks? Do we see more asset growth? Do we see dividends? Can you give us a sense of what getting a greenlight from the regulators means in terms of your ability to change things on the capital side? So the likely change from the Federal Reserve which is where the written agreement is is that the written agreement would be replaced with some form of memorandum of understanding.
And that memorandum of understanding is typically private.
There would still be restrictions in that memorandum of understanding and it's not totally clear exactly what they would be but I would not anticipate that we would be able to pay dividends or buy stock back in 2012.
We would I think likely need permission to be able to do that.
But I think we would have a greater degree of flexibility in our business.
My question gets at some of the earlier questions and I'm hoping just for a little additional color I recognize that this is a little bit of a chess game as can you look forward.
But if I understand properly you've got -- on your asset yields you've got an acceleration or I should say a better use of asset backed loans relative to cash flow loans that's having a downward affect or having some pressure on the asset yield.
And as you can look forward the best expectation you have is that as the confidence increases you'll start to see some shift a mix shift away from the asset-based loans.
Could you give us a sense how you think about that? No.
I don't think we're going to shift away from doing that.
I think you're right from a pricing point of view.
Right now if you have an asset-based loan that's 30% utilized you're making kind of LIBOR 300 350 on that balance and then some unused lines.
Commitment fees if that gets drawn up to 50% 60% the yield on the asset becomes greater than the unused line fee.
So I think that would be an asset growth perspective.
But from an overall portfolio we want to keep a balance from a risk profile of kind of the -- whether it's 50-50 or 60-40 kind of cash flow ABL kind of mix is something we want to maintain.
Okay.
And just as if you pull back a bit obviously there was quite a bit of consternation in the third quarter related to the capital markets.
Was that you think impacting the market from your perspective? And it seems like you've accelerated fundings and commitments maybe a little counterintuitive to what we saw in -- across many other businesses.
So I'm trying to appreciate kind of if the if you will the dislocation that occurred in the third quarter was playing to you or if it's just organic growth that you see as you kind of reposition the businesses is offsetting that and just get a sense as to the general market environments you're operating in.
Yes I mean I think we ended the second quarter with a pretty good pipeline of transaction in the Corporate Finance business and those closed kind of prior to some of the August events.
So a lot of that business was already in the pipeline and the customers kind of move forward those transactions.
I think post some of the activities I think September in our current pipelines is a little bit down from kind of what we had in the second quarter but it's still pretty good.
And so we still see good activity out there around that.
But in respect to the third quarter definitely some of that was closed in July and early August.
And also we're seeing a little bit better pricing on the cash flow side which is positive.
Right.
Yes it seems like there was enough dislocation that actually it helps out the pricing in that particular area it just -- it seems that there's quite a bit of competition where the banks are involved and I think that's what you indicated through the pricing on the asset-based loans and cash flow-based loans where there is little less competition has eased up.
So if there's a return to I guess the volume on that side that that could be beneficial for your margins overall? Yes.
Just as a follow-up to the regulatory question John you mentioned that you expect to be substantially complete with the written agreement by year end which is what you said in the past.
But just what exactly does that mean? What remains to be addressed in the written agreements? And also just to clarify your response to the prior question you don't expect any restrictions on the business or specifically the business within the bank once the written agreement issues are addressed is that correct? So let's go backwards in terms of the set of questions you asked.
Just in terms of the bank there is no restrictions on the bank now.
So the written agreement applies to the holding company.
The bank did have a cease-and-desist on it which was lifted.
So the bank itself is not restricted in terms of its business.
The written agreement has a laundry list of items most of them relate to credit credit grading and the management of credit risk compliance and the whole compliance process and then what I would categorize as problem loan management and dealing with nonaccruals charge-offs et cetera.
And all of those items we will have substantially completed the issues that were raised in the written agreement.
Great.
And then specifically to the bank you still have in the bank for a sizable student loan portfolio.
I wonder if you can give us a sense as to the plan.
Will that just continue to run off or do you expect to sell that? And if so what kind of cash proceeds would you expect from that and could those proceeds be potentially used to help pay down the Series A debt you discussed earlier? No that's so separate.
So the cash and the assets in the bank we don't dividend up to the parent company.
So really we see these student loans in the bank as kind of a source of funding as we continue to grow our commercial business in the bank.
So I think the -- as we've kind of demonstrated over the last kind of 1.5 years is that we'll selectively -- based on kind of the right pricing selectively sell assets to provide liquidity to fund that growth.
So over time as we grow the commercial assets we'll continue to run it down as well as selectively sell assets.
I wonder if you could give us a little more color on sort of pricing in Corporate Finance and in Transportation Finance over the last year.
I mean could you give us directionally how much lease rates and loan rates have changed? Well I think on the Corporate Finance side if you look at cash flow given some of the dislocation just as we've experienced in the capital markets pricing has kind of gone up I think relatively for comparable risks and it's allowed us the opportunity to kind of move up a little bit in some of the credit quality because the pricing there is attractive given what's going on.
On the ABL it's kind of been -- it peaked kind of post 2009 but I think it's been playing and hovering in the same spot of -- in the 250 300 range depending on kind of the nature of the assets being secured by the facility.
So shorter duration heavy turnover type retail clients probably in the lower than some of the other asset classes out there.
On the Transportation side we've seen the kind of rebound in the Rail.
That's kind of been quarter-over-quarter as utilization and demand has picked up.
And on the aircraft leasing it's really kind of aircraft-type specific but in general we've continued to have our fleet fully leased or almost fully leased over the last period of time and pricing really is a derivative of both the aircraft type.
So in general we've maintained good lease pricing in the aircraft side.
So planes that are being released from 5 years ago are lease rates higher or lower? Well I mean lease rates are a function of kind of the cost of the equipment.
So because the assets -- one of the tough parts is a 5-year asset is depreciated down and so the rate is based on that.
So as kind of a factor it would probably go down as the equipment gets older.
But the kind of lease percent because the asset is lower kind of tends to go -- kind of stays in the realm as a percent basis relative to lease factor and the actual dollars of rent that we collect.
So dollars would go down but the percentage would stay fairly stable.
Okay.
And then can you talk a little bit about some of the initiatives to restart some old lines of business? You talked about that in the past but how is that going new kinds of financing? Yes.
So we did a couple of things.
One is we hired a very experienced team of commercial real estate experts who actually just started a couple of weeks ago.
And we are reentering the commercial real estate lending area although we will do that on a very conservative basis making first-lien loans with relatively low loan to value and in a way that we think plays to our strength which is primarily lending against assets.
And then the other place which we're restarting is the equipment finance area where we had a core expertise where we continue to have a good knowledge base.
And again it plays to our expertise of lending against assets.
And how much could those contribute to loans over the next year? I mean can we start to see commercial loan assets growing in the first to second quarter or? Well obviously the goal is to have them grow.
So we do want them to grow.
We want them to pay for themselves.
But we're not going to predict kind of at what rate and you'll kind of see as the quarters progress.
Okay.
And just to clarify did you -- you said that even when the written agreement is lifted you don't expect to be able to buy back stock return capital in 2012? That is what I said.
Just a quick follow-up on the fee income line the line in your other income that's feed on the revenue used to be somewhat disappointing.
I just didn't know if you -- I know you made I guess some general comments about your ability to get fee income.
Anything else you could say about the prospects for a rebound in that line and what is driving some of the weakness there? Yes I think a lot of that is as I've mentioned that's really where the markdown on the operating leases that we have and held for sale goes through that line item.
And so that's probably the main driver.
Other than that it's kind of -- it stayed.
It has been fairly consistent over the last couple of quarters.
And I don't think there's any real weakness in -- from a business point of view.
No.
Okay.
And then the second question would be just in terms of the business in the past you've given some rough metrics on what kind of spreads you're generating on new business particularly as it relates to the bank.
And I just wanted to know some of the changes in the marketplace if you've seen -- it sounds like from a macro perspective things seem to be pretty much stable maybe a little bit of increasing competition but your funding costs are obviously lower as you now originate much more of your fraction of the bank.
Just give us an idea where the spreads are.
And then if we do double-dip what do you think the outlook would be for asset growth? I get this question a lot that -- do you think -- like I think that on one hand you're obviously macro sensitive and loan demand would fall.
But on the other hand you've made such progress on the bank side that you may be able to I think still continue to fund good lending opportunities given how much your cost of funding has dropped on a marginal basis.
Can you just comment on how you think about asset growth going forward under sort of the current macro scenario of slow growth and one of a double-dip? Yes Chris I'll answer the first question and John will answer the second part of that.
So on the first part we haven't seen any change so that's why I didn't repeat it this quarter.
But the corporate Finance loans and the vendor assets going into the bank are kind of maintaining -- the yields are not declining.
So the yields are still kind of in the range that I've put out there before and given the cost of funds both those businesses are kind of getting to the finance margins we would expect in the long-term targets that we've laid out.
So it's just a matter as we've mentioned before it's just a matter of kind of the transition and it's still ramping up.
So it's still on a proportion of the assets we have between the parent company and the bank.
We'll continue to show and talk about that in future quarters.
But I'll turn it over to John for that question on assets.
Yes.
So in terms of the economy as I said we don't see a double dip and we just see slow growth in the U.S.
and we demonstrated and I think can continue to demonstrate that we can grow assets in an attractive way in a slow-growth environment.
If there was a double dip in the U.S.
it would negatively impact loan demand.
And so I think it would slow down our ability to generate new assets and it would also I think likely increase or at least it would slow down the improvement we're seeing in the credit portfolio of our existing book.
So if we got into a double dip I would expect both slower asset growth and some credit deterioration in the existing book.
I think there's no way around the fact that we are sensitive to economic activity.
I guess in terms of -- and you talked a bit about the -- after you meet the terms of the written agreement you might not be able to return capital.
And then you specifically I think said that way you could look at some of your businesses and try to lower costs and increase operational flexibility perhaps tied to that.
Can you explain exactly what you mean by that? And what kinds of steps could you specifically envision being able to take after having met the terms of the written agreement that you can't take right now? I think I will kind of -- there's 2 comingled pieces I think Sameer.
So one was the -- what I mentioned was around the debt covenants.
So as we paid off the 2014's and had the consent of exchange offer now we're -- the only remaining covenant that's -- is kind of the cash sweep.
So with that it's allowed us to kind of look at our subsidiaries and kind of work on the capitalization of each one of those which will help us with respect to both lowering costs in certain areas improving our tax efficiency as well as some of the flexibility around where we can fund assets in different parts of the world.
The second piece on the written agreement I'll let John comment on what he said.
Well I think part of the answer is we don't know for sure what form of memorandum of understanding would be written.
Typically there are -- typically they would require permission to buy back stock or pay dividend.
And So I would expect that would be the case.
I think the place where we would hope to get more flexibility is just in our overall business mix and being able to diversify out our business in attractive ways.
Okay.
That's helpful.
The other question I had is in terms of your asset sales I think you said little over $700 million.
How many of those -- or what mix of those that $700 million consisted of loans on nonaccrual because there's a decline in loans on nonaccrual.
Just want to get a sense for the contribution from asset sales.
I'd say roughly probably 50% of those.
Okay.
And then in your Trade Finance business I think it looked like there was kind of an increase in loans on nonaccrual there.
Is that any sort of indicator of the pressure that retailers are facing or I mean can you just give us a little bit more color on that? Is it volume related? No it's actually it's just one account.
And so it does -- it's not indicative of anything.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just the last question.
The transfer of the Trade Finance business I thought you might have said that you expected to get approval to transfer that into the bank by the end of this year is that still your expectation? No and I don't think we said that.
So that's...
Maybe I was confusing that with the Vendor Finance which you've already done.
But do you have a sense of the Trade Finance and when you expect that to be going to the bank? That's a 2012 project.
Okay.
And you're continuing to make progress there.
Are there any early indications that that is going to be very likely because you were very confident about the Vendor Finance.
Just want to get sense for where we stand on the Trade Finance? I think I would just stay with what I said which is that's a 2012 project.
John I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how discussions have gone with the rating agencies and if given your plans to pay down debt if investment grade rating is even on the radar screen for '12 or is that more of a '13 '14 type target? Well first of all I would never attempt to predict when the rating agencies will do things.
I would say that I think it is likely we will trade at investment grade spreads before we get investment grade ratings.
I think that we are rated or not rated where we should be if you look at our capital ratios if you look at our earnings power if you look at the fact that we've repaid or refinanced $15 billion worth of debt.
I think we're rated too low as it is.
But I'm not going to predict when they will actually give us investment grade ratings and I think that we will get to a primarily uncollateralized borrowing structure and will trade at investment grade spreads before we get investment grade ratings.
Scott I wanted to touch briefly on a comment you just made with regards to international business in which where to fund assets in the world I think was the comment.
I'm wondering if that also ties into my other question which is on the Vendor business it seems -- can you talk a little bit more about the types of loans that you're making in the international vendor business and is that really the same assets that tied back to your comment of where in the world to fund assets given that seems to be the platform for a lot of international growth or am I missing something? No I think the platforms internationally we have for vendor are in the same kind of industries that is the U.S.
business.
So it's mainly on the office product technology and telecom equipment.
So it's just we're following in some cases some of our vendor partners as well as doing kind of local organic programs with relationships we have in each one of those regions.
And as we've said especially in Brazil and China we have funding from our Brazilian bank as well as other sources there and we put in place a conduit with some of the large banks in China to fund our business in China.
So I think that we feel good about that and we also have a sizable kind of European platform that we're continuing to -- we have funding in place for most of that business also.
So it's the same type of equipment that we have -- mainly the same kind of equipment we have that we do here in the U.S.
So is it a vendor business where it doesn't -- I guess what part of the business "where in the world" the assets can be financed? It seems like to me that the vendor business internationally is relatively small today.
You have gotten liquidity and funding in place.
So the marginal benefit from international financing advancement would come from where? I guess I don't totally understand the question.
We are growing those assets outside the U.S.
We're funding them to the extent we can locally.
And I think that's just a source of growth for us.
You look at where the GDP in the world is growing faster.
It's in places like Brazil places like China and that drives faster asset growth on our site.
Perfect.
So it's the portfolio mix.
And then with regards to -- can you characterize cash flow and ABL type investments and compare and contrast the types of partners or people that are in the same kinds of facilities or maybe a better way of asking the question is what your competition is? Is it different for the different types of asset classes? And if so could you kind of characterize what those are? Specifically in the Corporate Finance side? Yes for their cash flow versus ABL.
Is it banks in the ABL type stuff that you're either partnering with or competing against? Or -- And then is it insurance companies BDCs other types of vehicles in the cash flow is that really what the competition is today and is that reflective of some of the comments you had with regards to pricing and trend? Yes I would say there's definitely more competition in the ABL because you have both kind of regional banks as well as the national kind of banks that are playing in there plus GE Capital and others that play in that arena.
So on the cash flow it tends to be a smaller group of competitors.
So it's a -- and that one I think the competition and the number of players in there is much less and the expertise and underwriting capabilities for cash flow are something that really has built on both the customer relationship but also structuring capability.
And so I would say that's kind of one of the reasons for the pricing kind of dynamics around there.
You've really touched on this earlier but what was kind of the average gross origination yield if you look across the $1.9 billion in funded originations in the quarter? It's kind of hard to answer that in the sense of the difference business lines we have.
Right? So I mean trade is really not kind of -- well trade wouldn't be in the growth but you've got transportation assets which is really kind of a lease rate and railcar versus Corporate Finance and Vendor.
So the blended number I think -- and maybe we can circle back with Ken and the IR team.
I don't have the specific number off but it's north of 6% in average.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then also you've kind of mentioned in the past about looking at potential portfolio purchases now that you've got the Internet deposit strategy rolled out.
Could you talk about that environment? I mean assuming spreads have widened I would assume pricing might be more attractive.
I don't know what the environment is like and if there's as many willing sellers out there.
The answer is there are quite a number of portfolios for sale and we believe that there will be pretty interesting and attractive opportunities for us to purchase portfolios.
Okay.
Would you consider other lines that you're not in or really kind of just add on to existing businesses.
No I think it's much more likely we would stick to the businesses that we know.
I don't think we would buy a portfolio in a business that we didn't have an expertise in.
Okay.
And then the last the increase in the comp expense in the quarter was that -- I know you said you added a new CRE team I mean is that kind of a onetime or is that a trend maybe that might develop? I don't think it's related to the kind of the one team that we brought on.
So...
We wish it was.
Exactly.
So I think again looking at the trend was a little bit higher based on a couple of items in regards to kind of the mix of some of the people we did bring on.
Our headcount was flat but there are differences in the compensation of some of the folks we brought in in the quarter.
Also some is varied based kind of on volume being up on the sell side.
You'd have a little bit compensation increase there.
So I wouldn't say 135 is a trend nor is 120 but as we've talked about we're kind of looking and focusing on total expenses.
Just a follow-up on the acquisition question.
Given the fact that you're probably not likely to return capital to shareholders in 2012 does that just make you more inclined to look at acquisitions to better utilize the excess capital does that factor in to the decision? And then also given that you still have that 7% debt out there does that weigh pretty heavily and how you kind of view acquisitions as well? Well I think that the debt and portfolio acquisitions are really two different things.
We absolutely want to retire the $6.5 billion of Series A debt kind of as quickly as we can.
That will be determined more by cash flow generation as well as our ability to access the capital markets.
But the goal is to pay that $6.5 billion back as quickly as we can so we can become unsecured.
That's really a separate issue from portfolio acquisitions because we do have substantial excess capital.
We would only buy things that offered us attractive returns and attractive returns to our shareholders and was attractive vis--vis our own origination capability.
So there's no particular pressure to push to buy portfolios.
But I actually think in this environment there are quite a number of motivated sellers and so I think we may have some pretty attractive opportunity to buy things.
Well we thank you all for joining us this morning and for all your questions.
And if you have anything we didn't answer please feel free to contact me or any member of the Investor Relations team.
Thanks and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Earnings -- City (sic) [CIT] Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lacey and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Well thank you Lacey.
Good morning and just to clarify this is the CIT Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2010 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March 2011.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insight and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Also please note that we have posted an updated financial data package on our website this morning.
This package has been updated for fourth quarter results and reflects the prior period revisions for the time periods presented.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'd now like to turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you for being on our call this morning.
We reported a good profitable fourth quarter and we were profitable for the full year.
We originated new business volume in the quarter that was up across all 4 of our Commercial business segments.
We originated $3.3 billion of new committed volume which was up 40% sequentially.
As Scott correctly predicted on earlier calls our commercial finance and leasing assets grew for the first time this quarter.
They grew about $900 million since our bankruptcy.
We continue to redeem and repurchase our high-cost debt.
We redeemed and repurchased $860 million in the quarter.
And as you've seen from our press releases we are in the process of repaying $2.5 billion of high-cost debt in the first quarter of 2012 and it's our objective to pay back the remaining approximately $4 billion of Series A debt over the course of 2012.
Our credit metrics improved across the board.
Charge-offs nonaccruals and inflows to nonaccruals all were lower.
CIT Bank grew both on the asset side and on the liability side.
Our commercial assets in CIT Bank were up about 35%.
The launch of our Internet deposit was very successful.
As of last Friday so not as the year end but as of last Friday we had over $600 million of Internet deposits.
The average rate on those deposits was about 1.1% and the average maturity was about 1.5 years.
We did at year-end substantially satisfy all of the written agreement items and we're now awaiting the fed's acknowledgment of that.
We ended the year with a very strong capital.
Our Tier 1 capital was 8.8% with a lot of liquidity.
We had $8.4 billion of cash.
We also had $1.9 billion of our $2 billion revolver undrawn and our expenses were in line with the -- with our expectations.
Just briefly across our businesses.
Our Corporate Finance business we originated new committed volume of $1.2 billion.
That was up 10% sequentially in over 40 transactions.
On the Transportation side we added 15 new airplanes in the quarter.
We actually sold 4 so we're net up 11.
And for the year in terms of aircraft we added 37 new aircraft and sold 11 so we're up net 26.
We also added 1 600 new railcars in the quarter and we delivered our first railcars to CIT Bank which is the beginning of getting more of that business into the bank.
We also scrapped most of our idle centerbeam cars.
They show up in held for sale but they -- we're in the process of scrapping those.
And if you look at our utilization rates in railcars if you include centerbeams they were -- our cars were 97% utilized and if you exclude centerbeams they were 99.9%.
We had about 100 railcars that were not being utilized.
And at the end of the year we did have one airplane that was off lease but we now have an MOU to release that.
On the Trade side our factoring business our factoring volume was up slightly for the quarter at $6.9 billion.
And in our Vendor Finance business we funded new business -- funded new business was up about 11% sequentially.
Almost all of that business was originated in the bank.
So if you look at the growth in new business volume and if you look at the credit improvement in our portfolio it's all consistent with the view that we talked about before which I would restate today which is that the U.S.
economy is growing.
It's growing slowly but it is growing and we see that really across all of our business segments.
So with that I'll turn it over to Scott to give you more detail.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We had a very good quarter as John mentioned from a business perspective.
We have broad-based increases in new business volume.
Commercial assets grew for the first time since 2009.
Our funding cost continued to decline credit quality further improved and we continue to expand the scope of CIT Bank.
However our reported results continue to be impacted by financial items related to our strategic progress including the ongoing cost related to accelerated debt repayments; the impact from our portfolio optimization efforts; and in the fourth quarter tax provisions resulting from a change in our assertions regarding international earnings.
Before I get into the fourth quarter results as part of our continued review of internal controls and operating procedures we determined that a $68 million liability should have been established for unresolved credit in our Trade business that accumulated from 2001 through early 2011.
Of this amount $66 million related to pre-emergence periods.
Accordingly we revised our 2009 results to include this liability that upon our adoption of fresh-start accounting added a corresponding amount to goodwill.
To put this amount in the context it represents approximately 0.02% of the over $300 billion of factored volume during this 10-year period.
We also revised our 2010 and 2011 results for this in other immaterial and unrelated entries.
The cumulative impact of the revisions is a $2 million increase to net income over the 2-year period and a $0.32 decrease in tangible book value per share.
Moving on to the fourth quarter results.
We reported net income of $34 million or $0.17 per share on pretax income of $80 million.
Pretax income included about $150 million of costs associated with our liability restructuring actions.
Excluding these costs and net FSA accretion benefits pretax earnings were $140 million up from $91 million in the third quarter and a loss of $160 million a year ago.
Let me add some color to these figures which are on Page 18 of the press release.
FSA accretion excluding the impact of debt prepayments was $90 million up slightly from the third quarter but otherwise trending down as the remaining accretable discount on assets declines.
Next the FSA cost from accelerated debt reductions was $152 million and related to 3 things: first the $500 million student-lending securitization we redeemed in December; the $460 million of Series A debt we prepaid in October; and the roughly $400 million of Series A debt we repurchased during the quarter.
Prepayment penalties which also flow-through interest expense were $9 million reflecting the 2% fee on the $460 million of Series A debt we prepaid.
These costs were partially offset by a $12 million gain on the Series A debt we repurchased.
Looking forward the first quarter interest expense will include approximately $165 million of accelerated FSA debt discount on the $2.5 billion of Series A debt John just mentioned that we're redeeming in the first quarter.
After these redemptions we will have roughly $4 billion of Series A debt outstanding with approximately $450 million of related FSA discount.
Remember all of our 7% notes are callable at par.
Total assets increased over $45 billion reflecting growth in the Commercial portfolio and a slight increase in cash and investments due to the timing of our debt actions.
Total financing and leasing assets declined about $300 million as roughly $900 million of growth in the Commercial portfolio was offset by $1.2 billion of contraction in our student loan portfolio.
The Commercial growth resulted from funded new business of $2.9 billion which exceeded the collection and depreciation cost of $1.5 billion and assets that -- asset sales were roughly $1 billion -- or $0.5 billion.
New finance -- net finance margin excluding FSA and prepayment penalties was 207 basis points up about 50 basis points sequentially.
Lower funding cost continued to be the most significant driver of this improvement accounting for about 30 basis points of the sequential change as our average interest rate on debt and deposits improved to about 4.7% at year-end.
Pre-FSA asset yields increased in the fourth quarter benefiting from interest recoveries and corporate finance that totaled about $20 million.
Overall I would characterized core asset yield as fairly stable and I'd also note that margin continues to benefit from suspended depreciation on equipment designated at held for sale.
Remember that benefit is largely offset in other income as we write down the value of the equipment held for sale to lower cost or market.
Other income was $209 million down from the third quarter on lower gains and higher impairments on assets held for sale primarily centerbeam railcars and student loans.
However non-spread revenue was very strong in Corporate Finance where we had significant gains on asset sales and unusually high fee and other income related to favorable resolutions of written down assets in held for sale.
As John mentioned credit metrics continue to improve as charge-offs nonaccrual loans and inflows to nonaccruals were down from prior periods.
These positive trends are reflected in the provision.
While the allowance decreased modestly to $408 million it increased as a percentage of finance receivables to 2.05%.
Reserve coverage against our commercial receivables at year-end was 2.7% and we still have some non-accretable discount.
And finally operating expenses were $221 million and included a $5 million facility-related restructuring charge.
This is down slightly from the third quarter reflecting lower compensation and benefit cost.
Remember FICA restarts in January and we will be making our second annual grant of equity awards in February.
The equity awards are expensed over 3 years so we'll have some pressure on run rate compensation expense until we reach a more steady state in 2013.
Getting into the segment results and focusing on sequential trends.
Corporate Finance pretax income increased to $168 million and benefited from a few large items.
First we entered into an agreement to sell a portfolio of loans about 80% of which are nonaccrual.
It is a multiphase sale about 30% closed in the fourth quarter and the -- and most of the remainder closed yesterday.
These loans were written down through charge-offs and fresh-start accounting so our carrying value approximately $200 million is relatively low compared to the unpaid principal balance.
We recorded a gain on sale of about $50 million in the first quarter tranche and expect additional gains in the first quarter.
Non-spread revenue also benefited from the favorable resolution of written-down assets and held for sale and investment gains.
As I mentioned earlier margin benefited from interest recoveries.
Corporate Finance's operating fundamentals continue to be solid.
New business volume remained strong with committed volume up 10% and funded volume up 40% sequentially.
During 2011 Corporate Finance assets in the bank more than doubled to $2.7 billion while the legacy portfolio at the parent declined nearly 40% to $4.4 billion with much of the net portfolio collections at the parent being used to pay down high-cost debt.
New business deals were slightly up on average but the market remains bifurcated with continued pricing pressure on traditional retail ABL and stability in cash flow loans.
Finally credit quality was strong with minimal net charge-offs and further declines on nonaccrual balances.
Trade Finance pretax income was down slightly to $9 million primarily due to lower factoring commissions.
Factoring volume showed a normal seasonal increase rising 2% from the third quarter to $6.9 billion.
Annual growth is also 2% excluding the German factoring operation which is being wound down.
The decline in commission dollars reflect lower surcharges reduced recoveries of suspended income and changes in the mix of client factoring volume.
Overall portfolio quality is solid and we remain very disciplined and proactive with respect to managing our exposures.
Transportation Finance pretax income of $24 million was negatively impacted by a roughly $20 million fair market -- fair value market recorded in other income stemming from the decision to transfer most of our off-lease centerbeam railcars to held for sale.
Otherwise fourth quarter operating trends in Transportation Finance were good.
Finance and leasing assets were up $1 billion with 7% sequential growth in lease equipment and 10% growth in loans with all the loans originated by CIT Bank.
Equipment growth was primarily in aerospace.
As John mentioned we grew the fleet by 11 aircraft.
We added 15 aircraft between scheduled deliveries and spot purchases and sold 4 aircraft during the quarter.
Net rental income increased reflecting the higher asset level and the portfolio lease yields were fairly stable with improvements in rail mitigated by a slight compression in aerospace.
Equipment utilization remained strong with only one aircraft on the ground and railcar utilization improved to over 97%.
Looking forward all of our scheduled 2012 aircraft and over 85% of our railcar deliveries are already placed.
And we continue to make progress funding our equipment as we execute over $1 billion of secured financings against aircraft and railcars in the fourth quarter and started to take delivery of railcars in the bank as John mentioned.
Finally Vendor Finance also had a good quarter and generated $33 million of pretax income.
Finance and leasing assets grew sequentially to $5 billion.
Asset quality was very good.
Net charge-offs were less than $2 million benefiting from continued high recoveries and nonaccrual balances continue to decline.
However non-spread revenue decreased reflecting lower gain on sales.
We continue to mark down the value of equipment held for sale about $20 million in the quarter as I previously discussed is when we cease depreciation of the -- cease depreciating these assets in the margin line so the net impact is minimal.
New business deals were generally stable and the U.S.
volume originated by CIT Bank has a net finance margin in excess of 6% and solid double-digit ROEs.
And volume trends continue to be strong up over 10% globally on both the sequential and year-over-year basis.
In fact the increase is almost 30% year-over-year excluding platform sales.
Moving on to funding.
We continue to make progress transitioning our liability profile.
In addition to addressing the Series A debt we accessed nearly $3 billion of funding in the quarter and we did that in a challenging capital market environment.
We generated $1.7 billion from our secured borrowing facilities including $1.1 billion from the Goldman TRS facility as we utilized the available capacity within that structure.
This has economic benefits because the facility's marginal cost of borrowing is LIBOR flat.
More specifically this include a new $600 million railcar securitization which provided very attractive funding for this asset class and generated cash that was used in the January debt paydown and we proactively restructured a $500 million student-lending securitization.
We also funded $375 million of aircraft via existing facilities and additional $150 million into our Trade Finance conduit both at attractive rates.
We continued making progress at CIT Bank.
We raised $1.3 billion of deposits in the fourth quarter at an average cost of 160 basis points and an average term of 3 years including deposits from our online bank and other initiatives.
Liquidity and capital ratios at both the bank and bank holding company remained strong.
We had $8.4 billion of total cash and investments at year-end and another $1.9 billion of undrawn capacity within our $2 billion bank revolver.
Cash was up from the prior period as we were anticipating the repayment of the Series A debt.
We were also able to reduce the restricted and operating subsidiary cash balances as we continue to increase operating efficiency.
And the total capital ratio at the holding company was 19% and the Tier 1 leverage ratio at the bank was 25%.
I'm proud of what we have accomplished with respect to the funding over the last 2 years.
Since the beginning of 2010 and including the $500 million of Series A redemptions in February we have eliminated or refinanced about $18 billion of debt.
We lowered our funding cost improved our funding flexibility and are well positioned to execute the balance of our liability restructuring roadmap.
In closing our top funding priorities for 2012 are as John mentioned: eliminating the remaining $4 billion of Series A debt which will substantially unencumber the balance sheet; and further growing and diversifying the funding capabilities at CIT Bank.
With that I'll turn it back to Lacey and we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> With the $2.2 billion of student loans transferred to held for sale and $2.5 billion of cash already in the bank what type of organic volume growth are you expecting and -- or is this some type of preparation for portfolio acquisition? I think timing of kind of some of the student loan sales we did in the fourth quarter were based on kind of attractive transactions and so those are kind of ones that we thought were a good -- safe to do.
But again as you see the volume as we talked about growing into the bank we think that that liquidity will help us in regards to the first half volume that we predict in the bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was the impairment on the loans that you transferred to held for sale roughly $45 million? For in total? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No.
I think the impairments in total that we had -- for the held for sale yes.
So if you take out the $20 million for the Vendor equipment then yes it'd be around $45 million.
I think it was like $70 million so total impairment.
Our next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> As you kind of think about the repayment of the $4 billion is there -- I mean should we think about that coming from cash generated? Is there a yield on new liabilities that we should think about as replacing that? Then I've got a follow-up.
I think it's going to be multiple ways in order to address that.
I think there is cash generation at the parent company as we have some of the legacy assets run off.
We continue to execute on secured financings as I mentioned.
And if there's the opportunity to issue new Series C we would think that would be attractive too.
In regards to expectations for rates I think that's all subject to market.
I think the cash is pretty easy.
The secured financing we've been doing at attractive rates and then the capital markets would be again based on what the market was at that time.
Research Division</strong> And just to shift gears for a second.
The -- you mentioned 40 deals kind of in Corporate Finance.
I'm assuming those were generally originated as opposed to kind of going out and buying a portfolio of assets I mean if that's in fact correct.
And then kind of -- could you talk a little bit about your appetite for purchasing of portfolios? Yes.
I think the 40 that John mentioned were ones that we originated.
It wasn't portfolio acquisitions.
In regards to the second part of the question about if there are attractive portfolios as John and I have mentioned several times if they make economic sense we'd be -- that would be of interest to us.
And our next question will come from the line of Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can we just talk about maybe in terms of the capital initiatives you might have for this year on the funding side? From my indications it looks like the bonds and new issues that you did in the last year has traded fairly well into a significant premium in the aftermarket.
And as you grind towards a 5% cost of funding do you have any time line for when you might -- probably to access the fixed income markets again given the benefit you'll get from paying off the Series A? Yes Chris.
I mean we're always watching the markets.
And so if there's a timing that works and we can execute a trade we would do that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on deposit growth the Internet bank is at $600 million and this thing just launched I think in October.
Is it fair to say that it accelerated as the quarter went through and then the $600 million may not necessarily be the run rate that we should expect; it could actually go higher from there? Well I think the way to think about it is it did just start in October and so there is a certain amount of getting up to speed and a certain amount of just education in terms of getting our name out into the marketplace.
I think we said before that the -- we believe that we can raise substantial amounts of deposits on the Internet and you can look at some of our other competitors who have done that in the multibillions of dollars.
When we have as much cash as we do have in the bank as well as the student loans there's not much pressure for us to try to push to raise too many more deposits right at the moment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question on the factoring business.
It came in a little lighter than I was expecting as that business continues to be not recovering as fast as I would have hoped.
Is some of that just the German wind down? You did kind of call that out this quarter.
It would have been up 2% I think year-over-year and sequentially without the German wind down.
But still is competition the issue there or is it the economy? What's going on in factoring? And can we expect to see sort of more of the same in 2012 or is there any signs of progress? I think the factoring business pretty much follows retail sales.
And if you look at retail sales they were up 2% to 3%.
It obviously depends a little bit on the what type of retailer we're talking about.
But in general the volumes are going to follow retail sales and I think they're pretty consistent with what -- where we see retail sales going which are kind of growing 2% 3%.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Ball with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Scott the gain on sale of the nonaccruals in the quarter should we expect that same sort of magnitude in the sale that you said was just completed? No.
We -- our expectation would be -- is it'd be similar to the percent that we had on the first trade.
Research Division</strong> And the amount that you sold in the trade during the fourth quarter that was $60 million.
Is that correct? Yes yes.
For the assets? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you've got $215 million I think that were to be sold here this quarter or you said just sold? Yes.
The majority of the assets that were in held for sale were part of this transaction.
There's couple other smaller assets in there.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
You said 80%.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then on asset quality so your Corporate Finance net charge-offs have come in better than what you've talked about as a long-term target the 75 to 100 basis points.
I think you were in the low 60s this quarter.
Should we expect to see continuing improvement trends or is that going to be choppy? Is there much still in the way of credit leverage? The provision did come in lower than we expected this quarter.
I think I would say -- you used the word choppy.
I think in the Corporate Finance that's kind of a little bit more event driven in regards to particular companies.
We're on the vendor side and the trade side is little bit more on a flow basis.
So I would say that the long-term targets that we kind of set out there was over -- kind of a cycle and kind of good economic environments.
So I think we are happy where we are but there could be some movement around in regards to quarter-to-quarter what those charge-off numbers are.
Yes.
I think I would reinforce what you said which is I wouldn't expect there to be much more credit leverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just -- do you actually target a reserve ratio or is that just something that falls out? It falls out of our analysis.
So it's based on type of asset originated and many other historical factors.
So there's no target.
It kind of -- it's based on mix of business and also type of business we do.
And our next question will come from the line of David Hochstim with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Could you just remind us how much you have in rail delivery scheduled for this year and I think maybe next year? And so at the end of maybe next year what percentage of the rail portfolio could be in the bank? It's -- our -- we have a couple hundred million dollars of I think expected deliveries in 2012.
Inc.</strong> And those would all go in the bank? We would hope.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then can you just expand on your comments about the pricing trends in Corporate Finance? Just give us a sense of how it changed from Q3 to Q4.
Yes.
I think the cash flow middle market cash flow I think kind of retained -- kind of stayed stable maybe slightly better than third quarter.
And as I mentioned on the asset-based kind of lending business especially on the retail side is under pretty good competition and pressure in regards to pricing there.
So it's one that we're watching pretty closely.
Inc.</strong> And so what would -- could you give us a sense of what pricing would be like now or? It kind of -- it depends on -- within ABL there's kind of what we'd call more of the retail which is kind of very much receivables and inventory and then you can also go up to different asset collateral that probably have higher pricing because of the not as liquid per se.
So I'd say there's pricing and the retail could be in the 200 to 250.
And stuff that we're kind of looking at is more in the kind of 300 kind of range in regards to the ABL.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just give us an update on the prospects for getting through the stress test and being able to return some of your excess capital if you decided not to buy assets.
Yes.
So as we've mentioned before we continue to -- we weren't one of the banks that was required to submit a CCAR in 2012 but we continue to do an annual capital plan.
And so we continue to invest and do all the analysis to be compliant with CCAR during 2012.
Inc.</strong> And so when the written agreement is finally resolved does that mean you'd be -- you'd have some flexibility under your capital plan and you get approval for repayment? I think as John mentioned last time I don't think there should be expectations for 2012.
I think our plan would be to do our capital plan as part of the 2013 submission and see where that goes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just finally do you the have any exposure to AMR? It's not something we have kind of mentioned in any of our kind of disclosures but it's insignificant.
Our next question will come from the line of Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> As you look at Europe you pulled back a lot.
In Germany you cleaned up Vendor.
Can you kind of quantify for us what are the sort of the risks and the opportunities with your exposure to the European zone which obviously probably presents a mix of both and maybe comment on what you're doing on other international fronts? Let me start on that.
So we have relatively little exposure to Europe right now.
We have no exposure to European sovereign debt.
We do have small amounts of Vendor Finance business in Europe.
And I'm going to exclude the aircraft right now because airplanes they fly all over the place.
So we do have airplanes leased to European carriers.
But in terms of our Corporate Finance and our Vendor Finance business it's -- our exposure to Europe is relatively small.
I think that frankly is an opportunity for us that we're looking at.
We're seeing the European banks particularly the French banks really pulling back from those businesses putting out large portfolios for sale.
So that's a place where we're looking at to see what kind of opportunity there might be for us.
Other parts of the world our business in Latin America particularly Mexico and Brazil is growing and our business in China is also growing.
So we see good growth opportunities in the Latin America South America and in Asia particularly China.
Research Division</strong> Now we've talked a lot about portfolio purchases John.
What about just new business origination in Europe? Would you do that with the existing platform or would you need to sort of expand that business -- those business units? No.
We have the ability to do that with our existing platform.
It is still small.
So our business in Europe is small and I think the outlook for the European economy is not particularly positive.
But right now there's no need to expand the platforms.
And our next question will come from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of -- for your funded new business volumes what portion is coming from refinancings versus expansion and new growth opportunities that your customers are seeking? I think probably have to talk a little bit about each business unit.
So I would say most -- in the Corporate Finance portfolio I think in general refinancing is kind of roughly 1/3 little bit more maybe up to 1/2 depending on the segment you have.
In regards to kind of refinancing and vendor equipment it's kind of -- I guess it's kind of replenishment right.
So it's kind of upgrading or buying new equipment versus I guess a refinancing.
And so on an aircraft and things like that I think it's self-explanatory what that is.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay that's helpful.
And you mentioned the equity award grant in February.
Can you help us understand how to think about that in terms of the impact on operating expenses? And also along those lines just trying to understand it looks like there's a decrease in reported book value but you had positive earnings.
So it looks like there might be something going on in OCI.
Can you just talk about what's happening there? Okay.
Well I'll start with the last one and kind of work back.
I think you had few.
But it is a change in OCI and it relates to kind of our pension plans.
And so as you kind of are aware in regards to what's happening with some of the predictions for asset returns as well as discount rates given the low interest rate environment our assumptions for those were updated based on market information at year-end and caused a reduction in our equity through OCI for those plans.
In regards to I guess you had operating expenses and equity grants so I think the way to think about that is I think as others have been talking about the equity grants as a proportion of incentive compensation so that's -- what we tried to explain is that each year you kind of grant that you're going to until you get to the third year at steady state.
So I think 2012 we will see some increase in that compensation absent any other actions we take.
So the RSUs we've been using are 3-year vesting and so they vest over a 3-year period.
And we've only given them out for 2 years.
So it takes one more year to kind of get up to steady state.
Your next question will come from the line of John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just really quickly you had talked about the growth opportunities in Latin America and Asia and it's certainly been a reoccurring theme.
I was wondering if you might be able to put a little bit of a finer point at least in terms of the magnitude of the balance sheet today or some kind of measure as we can kind of gauge the progress of where we were to where we are today as -- or just relative benchmark.
That would be appreciated.
Well we -- I would say that as we -- I think I talked about last earnings call that the volume is growing very -- at higher rates than we have in the U.S.
On the assets we're coming off lower amounts.
But we think that based on kind of what we're seeing that they -- it's kind of representing close to half the volume we're doing internationally or half the volume we're doing in Vendor is going to be international.
So I think we see that that trend continues.
And then the assets are a little bit more skewed to the U.S.
based on our kind of legacy portfolio.
So I'd say on the asset side it's probably more -- kind of currently more 60% 65% U.S.
versus international.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then I was just wondering if we could just walk through the marginal yields across your different asset classes just at a high level Vendor Transportation and then your Corporate Finance business if we could just kind of blend things together.
I know we've kind of danced around the topic on some earlier questions.
I was wondering if you had the statistics there.
Just on a cash-base yield how we should be thinking about these returns because like -- I mean some of it is refinancing -- obviously we're in a lower interest rate and a little bit more competitive environment but you seem to find some competitive niches that banks don't.
I was wondering if you saw pricing pressure or pricing stability and I was wondering if you could quantify that for us as we kind of walk through what the yields are in each one of these major businesses.
Well all I would kind of mention on that one it's a difficult kind of question to answer in general because of the kind of where we are on the debt side right.
So what we've kind of continued to talk about is if you look at the new business that we're originating both the Corporate Finance business as well as the Vendor business in the U.S.
bank -- or the U.S.
-- the Corporate Finance and the Vendor business in the U.S.
bank we're originating at the long-term targets that we had set out.
So we feel good about those.
I think on the new deliveries that we're taking on aircraft between the secured financings and cash generated from the portfolio we think that those are also kind of aligned -- along the lines of our long-term targets.
So in general the new business we're originating we're looking at that to kind of be in those parameters.
And then looking at the legacy portfolio is a little bit more difficult to do that until we kind of refinance some of the debt.
I hope that helps you.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from the line of Ken Bruce with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Hoping you might be able to give us an update on commercial real estate lending activities how that group is forming what your target asset class would look like and any volume trends that you can give us please.
Sure.
So as you know from the prior calls we hired a group from Bank of Ireland so they came intact.
They're actively pursuing new opportunities.
We actually have one loan that they've made.
It's relatively small.
And we believe that they will originate very attractive opportunities over the course of the next few years.
Just to give you an idea I mean they're  they've built a portfolio of a little over $1 billion from the period of 2007 to 2010 while they were Bank of Ireland which portfolio actually got sold at a premium to par.
So they have a good track record and we're optimistic that they're going to be a significant contributor going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I look forward on hearing the updates on that.
And Scott I -- sorry I missed your earlier comment on the pricing on the middle-market cash flow loans.
Directionally is that up down sideways? It's fairly stable but we saw a little bit of upward pricing versus third quarter.
And at this time I show that we have no further questions in queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well we thank you all for joining us this morning.
And if you have any additional follow-ups later in the day I and the rest of the IR team will be available to take your questions.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Frances and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Frances and good morning everyone and welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2011 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in February.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insight and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'd now like to turn the call over to John Thain.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for being on the call.
We had a solid first quarter despite the GAAP reported loss.
As our press release states the quarter included $620 million of charges related to the prepayment of $6.5 billion of high-cost debt.
If you exclude those prepayment charges our pretax income was $214 million.
We originated $2 billion of funded volume in the quarter $2.5 billion on a committed basis.
Our Commercial Real Estate and our Equipment Finance businesses which were new businesses for us or restarted businesses were both off to a good start in the quarter.
And our Corporate Finance business on a committed basis originated volumes that were up 23% quarter-over-quarter and up 93% year-over-year.
Our commercial assets grew for the second consecutive quarter and pricing remained attractive across our business lines.
Our credit quality -- the credit quality of our portfolio improved.
Our non-accruals charge-offs and additions to non-accruals were all lower and we made excellent progress on our debt restructuring.
We repaid all of the remaining Series A debt which resulted in most of our debt becoming unsecured.
We issued $1.5 billion of unsecured notes in addition to another $3.25 billion that we had issued earlier.
We did get upgraded by the rating agencies although not far enough and we will continue to work on that.
And if you include what we've already done or announced in this quarter we will have repaid or refinanced $24 billion of high-cost debt since the beginning of 2010.
Continuing on our evolution to a more bank-centric model CIT -- we originated over 80% of our U.S.
volume in CIT Bank.
CIT Bank's Internet deposit gathering is now over $1.1 billion of deposits.
And just to give you an idea those deposits have an average life of about 1.5 years and have a coupon of about 1.1%.
Our expenses were generally in line.
We did have a small restructuring charge in the quarter.
Our capital ratios remain very strong 17.6% on a Tier 1 basis.
We continue to be very liquid $7.3 billion of cash.
And on the regulatory front we believe that we have substantially satisfied the requirements of the written agreement and the Federal Reserve of New York is in the processing -- the process of verifying our work.
With that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We continued to make good fundamental progress this quarter.
As John mentioned we grew commercial assets funding costs continued to decline credit quality further improved and we continued to grow CIT Bank.
We reported a $447 million net loss or $2.22 per share and a pretax loss of $406 million.
The pretax loss was driven by approximately $620 million of charges associated with our liability restructuring actions.
This included $597 million of accelerated FSA debt discount and $23 million loss on debt extinguishment.
Excluding these charges pretax earnings were $214 million down from $230 million in the fourth quarter.
The decrease came as lower FSA accretion increased provisions for credit losses and charges in Vendor Finance more than offset increased gain on asset sales and lower funding costs.
Let me get into the key operating drivers and focus my comments on the sequential trends as they are more relevant.
Total assets decreased slightly to just over $44 billion reflecting a lower cash balance as we made a significant debt repayment in March.
Total financing and leasing assets were essentially unchanged at just over $34 billion as the Commercial portfolio grew roughly $550 million to $28.4 billion and the consumer book contracted to $5.7 billion due to the sale of $500 million of student loans in the quarter.
Growth in the Commercial portfolio came as $2 billion of organic lending and leasing volume more than offset the quarter's $1.2 billion of combined collections and depreciation and $500 million of commercial assets sales.
Growth also benefited from the bank's purchase of a $200 million portfolio of loans secured by aircraft.
Net finance margin excluding FSA and prepayment penalties was 197 basis points down 10 basis points sequentially.
We continue to see margin benefit from our lower funding cost about 10 basis points this quarter.
That benefit is lower than recent quarters due to the timing of our debt actions which led to an increased negative carry.
Specifically the average cash and investment balance was up about $400 million sequentially due to the lag between the $3.25 billion we issued in February and the subsequent paydown in March.
However the funding cost benefit was more than offset by 20 basis points decline in the pre-FSA asset yields that was largely driven by 2 factors.
First we had an adjustment in the interest revenue in the Vendor Finance business which reduced first quarter margin by about 15 basis points.
Although the charges predominantly relate to prior periods the cumulative adjustments were booked this quarter impacting the margin.
Second interest recoveries came in at a particularly high level -- high fourth quarter level and accounted for 10 basis points of sequential decline but still exceeded historic norms.
On a positive note our portfolio continues to shift towards a greater proportion of higher-yielding commercial assets and lower non-accruals in student loans.
So just to recap lower funding costs added about 10 basis points to margin but was mitigated by 20 basis points of portfolio yield contraction resulting in a net 10 basis-point decline in margins.
Other income was nearly $250 million up from the fourth quarter on strong gain on sales.
We sold about $1 billion of loan and lease equipment which was evenly split between commercial and consumer assets.
These gains totaled $165 million and included a slight gain on the student loans.
About $150 million of the gain came from the completion of the multi-phase loan portfolio sale in Corporate Finance we discussed last quarter.
We also benefited from sales of Transportation equipment and Vendor assets which are part of our normal fleet and residual management activities.
Excluding gains on loans and lease -- loans and equipment sales non-spread revenue was down $15 million sequentially to $85 million due in part to reduced benefits from FSA-related items.
Both pre- and post-FSA credit trends showed similar trends as charge-offs non-accruals loans and inflows to non-accruals all declined sequentially from the prior year.
However the provision for credit loss rose from the fourth quarter levels as we increased the allowance for loan losses to $420 million.
The increase reflects the fact that this quarter's commercial asset growth was driven by lending whereas last quarter's growth was primarily leased equipment.
As a percent of finance receivables the reserve is flat with year end at 2.05%.
The remaining non-accretable discount on loans is no longer significant at about $45 million.
As John mentioned operating expenses were $223 million up slightly from last quarter on higher compensation costs due in part to FICA restart as well as equity incentive awards.
Headcount was flat and professional fees were down.
Finally our first quarter income tax provision was $40 million was driven by international earnings.
We continue to record valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets resulting from our U.S.
net operating losses.
Turning to the segment results.
We added a new table to the press release this quarter which highlights the amount of accelerated FSA debt discount allocated to each segment.
Remember that discount shows up as an increase in interest expense and is driven by our debt repayment activities.
Given the volatility of these allocations my remarks will focus on the sequential trend excluding this impact.
Corporate Finance's adjusted pretax income fell slightly to $177 million.
Higher gain on loan sales and improved finance margin were offset by decreased FSA accretion lower recoveries on assets held for sale and higher credit provisions on asset growth.
As John mentioned new business activity continued to be strong.
Committed and funding volumes were up 13% and 23% respectively with 82% of the volume originated in CIT Bank.
About 52% of the U.S.
Corporate Finance portfolio is now on the bank up from 21% a year ago.
Lending and leasing assets increased $300 million despite asset sales reflecting strong new business volume.
New business was split roughly 60% cash flow 40% ABL and new business yields were generally stable.
As John mentioned our initiatives in Real Estate and Equipment Finance are off to a good start each closing multiple transactions during the quarter.
In the C&amp;I space we are winning an increased share of the overall market's refinancing activities and are seeing increased activity from manufacturers.
Deal flow also continues to be strong in our energy and entertainment groups.
Credit quality metrics improved with charge-offs and non-accrual balances coming down.
All in all good progress.
Turning to Trade.
Adjusted pretax income decreased to $4 million primarily due to higher provisions as the prior quarter benefited from a reserve release.
Factoring down -- volume was down sequentially due to seasonality and relatively flat to first quarter of 2011.
Despite the seasonal drop in volume factoring commissions remained stable.
Net charge-offs were only $1 million and non-accruals declined significantly.
Transportation Finance adjusted pretax income increased to $81 million reflecting reduced impairments and generally solid operating trends.
Leased equipment levels were essentially unchanged from year end as we had fewer aircraft deliveries this quarter.
But Loans grew to over $1.7 billion bolstered by the $200 million portfolio purchase.
Air utilization rates remained strong with only one aircraft off-lease.
We are seeing some near-term pressure in the demand for certain aircraft but remain well-positioned with all our remaining 2012 deliveries placed.
Overall trends in rail are improving.
Utilization remains over 97% and rental rates continue to rebound.
There was some softness in the coal market due to a mild winter and lower natural gas prices but demand for other energy-related cars remained strong.
Finally on Vendor Finance we had a $14 million pretax loss reflecting the adjustments in the Mexico portfolio and lower non-spread revenue.
While profitability was down portfolio assets increased and credit quality remained strong.
New business volume increased 17% from a year ago but declined sequentially reflecting seasonal trends.
New business yields remained strong and stable and margins are attractive with CIT Bank originating virtually all the U.S.
volume.
Asset quality continued strong with non-accruals essentially unchanged and continued modest net charge-offs although up from a historically low level in the fourth quarter.
Finally we continue to make progress funding both our U.S.
and international Vendor platforms more efficiently.
And that's a good segue to discuss overall funding.
As John mentioned we achieved a major milestone this quarter with the redemption of all the remaining Series A debt which resulted in our Series C Notes and revolving credit facility becoming unsecured.
We also announced the redemption of $2.1 billion dollars of 7% Series C debt that will result in an approximately $130 million of accelerated FSA debt discount and related charges in the second quarter.
That will leave us about $650 million of discount on the remaining $6.7 billion of 7% Series C debt still outstanding.
We continued to access diverse funding sources at attractive rates.
We issued $4.75 billion of bonds with a weighted average maturity over 5 years and a weighted average coupon of about 5.2%.
We expanded our online deposit offerings with the launch of a new high-yield savings account and our Internet deposits exceeded $1.1 billion.
Total deposits now account for about 21% of overall funding double from last year's level.
In addition during the quarter Moody's S&amp;P and DBRS each upgraded our counter-party rating by one notch bringing us closer to an investment-grade rating.
Our liquidity and capital ratios at the bank and bank holding company remain strong.
And we remain focused on executing on the balance of our liability restructuring roadmap.
With that I'll turn it over to Frances and we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brad Ball with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Scott quick question on credit quality.
So we came in again this quarter I think much better than the expected net charge-offs for the long term 42 basis points versus you've talked about 75 to 100 basis points in the past.
Can you give us a sense as to how much longer to expect this lower-than-normalized net charge-offs? And is the new business that you're putting on -- you increased the provision this quarter.
Is the new business coming in in that range of around 100 basis points net charge-offs? Or is going to be lower?  Can you sustain those levels? Yes.
As I think we mentioned before I think these levels are kind of not our steady state.
So I think if you look at some of the details we have experienced especially in the Vendor business some high recovery rates that have kind of lowered the charge-off number.
But I would say on the provision the new business that we're originating is kind of in line with the long-term targets that we set out there.
And so the reserve build is commensurate with that expectation.
And again it could be a little bit better a little bit worse than that over time but we feel good about the assets we're putting on the book.
Research Division</strong> And would that reserve coverage ratio begin to work down from the roughly 2% range down to around 1%? 2% is kind of Brad is the overall.
And so as we kind of transition the mix of lower kind of consumer assets and more commercial assets I think it's -- whether it's at that rate maybe a little bit higher but I don't think that there's an expectation other than mix that it would kind of drift lower than what we currently have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up.
Can you give us a sense as to your plans for redeeming the remaining Series Cs? My sense is that you moved much quicker than we had thought coming into the year in redeeming the As and some of the Cs here this quarter.
Is it basically redeem the high-cost debt as quickly as possible? Or what's the posture there? Yes I mean we'd like to redeem it as fast as possible Brad.
I would say that there's kind of 3 elements to kind of that process.
I think number one is just the continued kind of runoff of the legacy Corporate Finance and Vendor assets in the U.S.
perspective.
Number two is we do have several international funding efforts under way for our Vendor business that's currently funded at the parent company that would free up some cash.
And as always we are always looking at the capital markets to see if it's attractive to issue.
So I think there is many areas that we're focused on and I think the timing we would hope to be able to kind of get through those over the next 12 to 18 months.
But if we could do it faster that's our preference.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on fees and other income.
The Other Fee Income line was down 50% or so sequentially from 64 to 65 sorry to 35.
Was anything lumpy in the last quarter that was driving that? I just wanted to know if we -- is 35  the better run rate or is there anything else going on that line?  And a similar question.
Where do we stand on recoveries of pre-emergence loans? Is that stockpile starting to decline? Or is it just -- obviously it's lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
Just wanted to know if you expect the $10 million to be the better run rate for this year.
Yes.
So I think yes in the fourth quarter there was some items related to kind of the portfolio sell that we had as well as other recovery -- interest recoveries through -- that run through that line.
So that one was I think an elevated level.
I think the fee and income overall I would say as we mentioned the $250 million is -- includes $150 million from the structured sale that we did.
And so as you look at our assets held in -- held for sale excluding kind of the student loans and the portfolio that we have for Dell Europe that's in the process of transitioning there's not much left in the assets held for sale.
So I think that the gain on sale perspective cannot stay at the elevated level.
So on the recovery line it is somewhat lumpy but it has come down.
I think the further we get away from the emergence period I think as with FSA I think just naturally the opportunities come down but there might be -- on a quarter-to-quarter basis there might be a big recovery we get.
But it's very hard to forecast those.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you can I know this is a usually a difficult topic to address but is there any sort of timeline you can help us think about when it comes to the Fed? And also in conversations with the rating agencies recently you've had -- S&amp;P and Moody's taking a little bit of a different approach it seems like.
Are there any issues that you can think of that are potentially going to be addressed in the near term?  Or it's just a matter of time before they get more comfortable? It seems like the core profitability is certainly turning the corner here there was obviously a lot of capital.
I'm just not sure what their issue is.
And are the 2 related? Are the Fed and the ratings agencies kind of related and the rating agencies see the formal agreement as a negative in their outlook? Can you just give me a little color there please? Bob I'll answer the question as to the Fed.
We really can't predict when we're going to get an answer from them.
They're reviewing all of the work that we did come -- really up to the end of the year.
It's an ongoing dialogue with them that we have and so it's just a process and we can't really predict what the timing will be.
And I think the rating agencies if it's -- you can read their published notes I think one is continued sustainability of the franchise which I think is more around kind of the portfolio growth that we're starting to experience in the assets.
I think it's continued stabilization on the credit side.
So I think we've had several quarters and the trends have been as we talked about improving.
And then I think also it's just more buildout of the bank-centric model.
So I think as we do that I think those are things we have.
I think in general as you mentioned there is a lot of views around the financial sector that we get as part of that.
But I think it's mainly sustainability and overall macro views on the financial sector.
Your next question is from the line of Henry Coffey from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Obviously great progress here and it sounds like it's just going to continue.
The biggest question we get surrounds sort of the performance of the leasing assets.
That's a mark that you're going to have to live with for a long time.
Can you give us any insight into what the actual market values of those assets are? I know all lease assets are different I understand rail is performing extremely well et cetera but maybe you could just create some color around that for us.
Henry it's Scott.
I'll try my best.
I would say on the rail side as you know we took a pretty good market at the fresh start.
I would say that because of the market trends probably -- if you look at the appraised value it would be up versus kind of what we're marketing it at.
On the aircraft it was -- it's kind of plane-dependent and I think there's what was in 2009 versus where we are today I think in aggregate we feel the market is very appropriate.
But it would be very hard to kind of because of the different 2 years out and the different aircraft types to kind of give you the specifics.
But I think in general we feel very good about the value of the aircraft and as well as the rail car.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Utilization is high but when you look at the sort of pending order books are there any issues on the horizon that could challenge values? I think in the market I would say it's more of it might be a little bit of pressure on the lease yields if there's a supply-demand challenge.
But I don't think -- from an overall industry perspective the demand for travel has not come down and as well as I think overall the rail loadings are kind of in the first quarter on par with first quarter of last year.
Okay.
Let me just add one comment.
With the exception of coal cars which Scott talked about and center-beams which carry lumber which we've talked about before generally all of our other rail cars the leasing rates are higher as we're re-leasing them.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of unrelated as you look to refinance the 7% notes given where your capital is do you have a particular bias towards either short-term or long-term funded sources of debt? Well I think what we would say in regards to our debt maturity stacks we're very focused on ensuring that the maturities in any given year kind of are within a reasonable tolerance of refinancing when we get to those years.
So it's one of the reasons why we paid down the 2017.
That maturity stack was over $4 billion and we would feel more comfortable with stacks below $3 billion dollars.
So I think on the debt issuances it would be a matter of potentially kind of replacing some of the existing Series C with new debt in those maturities or potentially looking at other maturities.
But I think it's going to be based on kind of the pricing and what the market demand is for different maturities.
The next question comes from the line of David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
I wonder could you give us some more detail or color on the Corporate Finance volumes? Pricing in the quarter you mentioned it was stable but just more specificity.
And how much did you originate in the new businesses real estate and the construction equipment? I mean it was part of the overall volume that we talked about.
As I mentioned we did several transactions in both the equipment and real estate.
But I would say with regards to getting those numbers out there it's probably not relevant to the conversation.
I think overall as you know in the overall Corporate Finance middle market volume in the marketplace was down in the first quarter sequentially.
And I think we did a really good job at winning a lot of new customers as part of the overall activity in the first quarter.
And as I said I think pricing is relatively stable.
I mean there's pockets of pressure but as we've said there's also others -- other areas where there's some benefits.
So I think in general I think it's consistent with other views other people's views on the market.
Okay.
And then can you give us an update on what you're seeing in the way of European banks trying to sell assets and you finding any opportunities? And then with $200 million of aircraft loans related to that? Yes I would say that there's been a few I think transactions that have happened but not the extent I think of people's expectations.
So I would say that we do get a look at a lot of the activity.
I think our general view is that a lot of the assets that are in the market have pretty low yields relative to our expectations.
So where we find portfolios like the aircraft loans that we feel meet our return expectations that's really where we've been very focused on versus the general overall market.
So at this point it's not very likely it sounds that you're going to have a big opportunity for growth from banks dumping assets? Yes I wouldn't say it quite that strongly.
I think that it depends a little bit on whether or not the banks will sell the assets at a discount.
So as the liquidity facility in Europe gets closer to its maturity there may be more pressure on the banks to actually sell assets.
But so far because the portfolios generally have relatively low yields they're only attractive to us if they trade at a discount which the banks really haven't been willing to do up until now but we'll see.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little clearer sense of what the run rate is on the margin if we kind of back out all the noise you mentioned around the impact from the Vendor business in Mexico the maybe normalized recoveries if you had a full quarter of interest savings from debt paydowns and also I guess the negative carry you mentioned? I think in the first quarter as you said there was a lot of activity in the line.
So I think as we go into the second quarter you'll get the full benefit of the actions that we took in the first quarter on the $6.5 billion and the timing of the debt issuance.
There'll be a little bit of timing related to the $2.1 billion because it's not -- you're not going to get the full quarter benefit on that.
So I think you'll start to see and you can do probably the math on the interest the funding benefit will come through.
I think the 2 areas that are very hard to -- or one area that's hard to predict is the interest recoveries.
As we've said there have been at higher levels than our historical norm and that could come down or should come down over the next couple of quarters as we get through the portfolio.
And then #2 is which won't happen in the next couple of quarters but as we transition the assets that are held for sale in the Dell portfolio that suspended depreciation benefit is in the margin we'll transition as those assets do.
That will be kind of later in the -- later in 2012.
But I think we'll get closer to a kind of a what I want to say a more pure net margin later in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you give us a little more color on kind of what your expectations are or what you're working towards this year on fee revenue growth and what the key drivers for that are going to be? On the fee side as I mentioned I think the expectation for gains on portfolio sales as we are trying to grow the book and we have very few assets in held for sale will come down.
I think our core fees is really around commissions factoring so it's going to be a driver of both the volume as well as the market around the commission rate.
We do have fees coming out of the Corporate Finance business both from an agency perspective kind of other fees associated with both ABL and cash flow transactions.
It could pick up in regards to potential syndication fees around arranging certain transactions.
And then as I said it's -- part of our normal kind of operating business is that we kind of manage our aircraft portfolio for both risk and other reasons so we do have plane sales most of the quarters.
And potentially there's gains on sale on those as well as the Vendor end of term.
So those are kind of what I would say the kind of the recurring things.
And then recoveries as we mentioned before is going to be lumpy.
But I think as we get further from the pre-emergence post-emergence timeframe we're going to see that opportunity come down.
I think those are the core bases.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Bruce from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question is -- we get a lot of feedback from market that lending in the non-bank arena is very attractive just from a yield prospective.
And it appears just based on the move by CIT to try to become a little bit more bank-centric that you're moving up in quality in terms of what your Corporate Finance lending is.
And I wondered do you feel that there's a risk that you're going to possibly overshoot and become too high as the asset quality and maybe miss some of the opportunity that's available in the market today? Well I don't know if I agree totally with what you said.
But I would say that the portfolio that we're originating in the bank today is consistent with our overall portfolio.
Over the last couple of years I think there -- with the lower cost of funds it does give us a better opportunity to look at some higher-grade kind of credits in the BB market.
But I don't think it's one where it's going to be -- being pushed there.
I think it's going to be based on our overall portfolio management looking at the kind of the pricing on that risk-adjusted returns that is going to be more the driver than it is doing that.
Because as we've talked about before our expertise is really kind of in the structuring and the underwriting of the credits.
And I think as you move up the spectrum that expertise you don't get paid for per se on the same compared basis that we would think.
But it's not saying we won't do that but I don't think it's going to be a big portfolio shift.
Research Division</strong> I guess my point is that I would agree with you that there are more opportunities to extract yield out of from these restructuring or from the restructuring efforts in some of the well I guess it would be deemed lower-quality credits.
And just listening to the comments in terms of where loss rates are and where there's pricing pressure I just wonder if there's a risk that you're maybe trying to become too bank-centric in the process.
And I understand that in the current situation there's a backdrop where you've got to kind tack that way for purposes of making regulators and rating agencies happy and the like.
So I'm just trying to understand from a longer-term perspective where you want to -- really where you see yourself participating in the market.
I just would add 2 other thoughts.
I think that the improvement in the credit quality of portfolio is really a couple of things.
One is our credit underwriting and the quality of our credit team is much better now than it was historically and we're doing a really good job analyzing the credits.
Second of all we have been pruning the portfolio and so the -- we have sold off a lot of the non-performing assets.
And I think that the third thing is the overall economy is improving and so some of the very low levels of charge-offs in non-accruals is a function of where we are in the economic cycle.
Your next question is from the line of Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes John you've had some time to sort of get a better sense on expenses turn around the company capital originations.
I was just curious if you still feel confident in your sort of long-term ROE targets.
I think they're 10% to 15%.
And I was just curious if 2014 is still in the realm of realistic possibilities for sort of a normalized earnings environment.
The simple answer is yes.
When we look at the yield and the returns on the new originations on the assets that we're originating now we are hitting those targets that we put out.
And so I do think that those are -- those continue to be realistic.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of kind of putting a timeframe on when you could potentially be sort of base-case for normalized earnings would that be '14 is still in the realm of possibilities? Well as you know we don't provide forward advice or guidance and so we've never really said specifically about any one year.
But as you can see this is a gradual trend where as we get rid of the high-cost debt as we originate new assets as we put more assets in the bank the returns get cleaner and cleaner.
I think that the one thing I would say is on the capital side given the level of capital that we have we're not going to get to the 13% capital target without some ability to return capital at some point in time.
Your next question is from the line of John Stilmar from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question dovetails more towards the last one as well Don's last question.
If I look this quarter you guys originated about $1.8 million or call it  $2 billion dollars.
So it gets this -- if I assume an average life of about 5 years across your entire product mix including the long-gated rail and transportation assets and maybe short of that for some of your other commercial businesses.
And I get to kind of like a $36 billion asset base.
Is that sort of the right way -- or do you agree that that's sort of the right way of what your origination capability can kind of service at least in terms of the loan portfolio? And then sort of along those lines should we think about getting to that ROE ultimate trajectory how should we prioritize the balance sheet growth and consumption of capital versus capital action plans to get back to our targeted ROE? I guess John I think there's -- your math I think because of the proportion of our transportation as you kind of look at the $2 billion that we did in this quarter we had very low aircraft deliveries and railcar deliveries where in the fourth quarter we had significant.
So I think if you look at the kind of the operating lease business and look at that that would be a longer duration than kind of what you mentioned.
So that would be kind of more the -- probably somewhere between 10 and 12 depending on asset class.
On the loan portfolio I'd say the Corporate Finance kind of is probably closer to the number you put out there but depending on what the market environment is and refinancing activity.
I mean usually facilities are kind of put out there for that term but they may not last that long so it could be 3 or 4 years depending on the marketplace.
And then on the Vendor business it's probably lower than that it's probably more in the kind of 3-year range.
So I think when you blend them altogether it might be over the 5%.
But the math is not -- I can't say the math is not inconsistent but I think as we've talked about on the organic portfolio it's going to be a combination of our existing capabilities and some of the new products we've talked in regards to Real Estate and the Equipment Financing as well as growth in the global environment.
But we've also said that we probably need some kind of inorganic growth in regards to have above-market growth rate which is what in essence that's saying.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your Transportation business recent presentation had talked about the historical CAGR for that business as being somewhere around 9%.
Is that what we should be thinking about as we sort of think about the CIT transition? I know it's a lumpy business given deliveries but is that sort of a base case?  Or was it -- is that really kind of a reflection of maybe a different time in the global economy? I think that growth rate probably going forward is a little bit high.
But I would say it'd probably more in line with kind of the overall market growth in regards to passenger miles.
But I would probably -- probably more in the 5%.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner from Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I just wanted to loop back on the Vendor Finance.
How much of that $5 billion is funded at the parent level? At the parent level I'd probably say -- probably most of it because we -- what we have the International business that's -- we do have a few funding facilities for that and then we just transferred the portfolio in third quarter of last year.
So I would say that probably the kind of -- over 50% of that's probably in the parent company.
Or probably more probably like 60% 70% is probably at the parent company.
And that's really one of the things I mentioned in my remarks is the big effort for us is to now that we've made so much progress in the debt side on the Series A and the Series C as well as some of the credit rating gives us a lot more ability to fund a lot of our international platforms.
Yes.
Just to remind you we only moved the U.S.
origination platform into the bank last year so it's really only the new originations from really beginning middle of last year.
Now that will get -- that will improve a lot because we're originating almost all of the U.S.
assets in the bank now.
But the portfolio shift that's going to take a little bit more time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
I guess that's what I was sort of trying to get at is how much potential funding opportunities are there to secure additional lines?  Is there additional financing you can do for the international Vendor business that might free up capital to pay down some of your notes? Yes as I mentioned yes that's a big focus for us in 2012.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Post the emergence we've seen that book value growth has been flat to positive and really the effect of your aggressive retirement of high-cost debt has been basically offset by -- the negative impact of that's kind of been offset by the core underlying growth in the business such that that book value growth has remained positive to flattish and so kind of this quarter we saw that decrease in book value.
And I wonder if you could kind of frame for us as we look forward given the remaining FSA impact that we expect to flow through in your remaining high-cost debt retirement actions should we expect kind of more quarters like the past where that adverse impact from the retirement of high-cost debt is kind of offset by the fundamentals of the business such that book value growth doesn't -- isn't negative it's at least flat to positive and so kind of we can look at book value here as kind of a decent floor? Or is there the potential that we'll see more quarters like this one where there's a potential decrease in book value as a result of that? So I think the way to think about is we're pretty close to the end of the FSA.
So you sort of already know there's only $650 million of FSA charges left in our debt and we've done so much of the refinancing already.
And we certainly -- when we started we were sensitive to how much of the debt charges we could take versus driving -- potentially driving down the book value number.
I think at this point I think it'd be better for us better for our shareholders to get rid of the remaining noise in our P&amp;L as quickly as we can.
Obviously we expect to continue to be able to earn money so we'll offset part of it.
But I think at this point we would rather get rid of the remaining piece of the FSA that's in the Series A debt -- sorry Series C debt and clean up our P&amp;L so we have a cleaner P&amp;L going forward.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And separately can you give a little bit more color on what drove the yield adjustments in looking at the sequential decline in economic margins? And what's the potential for similar adjustments as we look forward from here? As I mentioned I think you've got a -- the 2 that I mentioned one we don't expect to kind of follow with us going forward which was really the revenue adjustment in our Mexican portfolio.
And that really relates to a cumulative adjustment we did in the first quarter that kind of dates back several years -- over the last several years.
The second piece was really the interest recoveries.
And as we mentioned the interest recoveries have been at a kind of historical norm high and those will come down but those are really a function of the specific accounts where that happened.
So I think over time I think we get to a more pure kind of margin number.
And your next question is from the line of Jeff Davis from Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a little more color on the aircraft leasing yields that were referenced.
You mentioned that you were starting to see pressure on a few planes.
What type of planes? And then if press reports are to be believed we may see more airline bankruptcies globally towards the end of the year.
Any sense that pressure on lease rates start to broaden out in '13 '14 from more aircraft on the market? Well I don't -- I would say that we try to give that color -- I wouldn't say it's very kind of specific to certain aircraft when they come back timing of when they come back and in regards to whether you re-lease it with an existing customer or you have to find a new customer.
But I would say that we feel still overall the portfolio is in -- well-positioned.
In regards to kind of the outer years as you've seen I think there's a large re-fleeting effort going on and the overall macros for kind of aircraft or airline travel continues to be pretty strong on a global basis.
So I don't think it's a big change.
I think it's just all we wanted to say is there is some isolated kind of pressure in certain of aircraft or relative to who's returning or re-leasing that aircraft.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So fair -- not to put words in your mouth in a sense of at least this point transitory if you will just for a handful of aircraft.
What -- and then the second question American-U.S.
Air combination does that have any impact on the business? Potential combination? Not really because I think we've mentioned our customer base in the U.S.
is pretty limited in regards to where we lease our aircraft.
So it could be a potential opportunity.
But I wouldn't say we have kind of minimal exposure either of those airlines.
And at this time there are no other questions in the queue.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well we'd like to thank you all for joining us this morning.
If you have follow-up questions please call me or any other member of the Investor Relations team.
And we hope to see many of you at our Investor Day in New York on June 14.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and thank you for participating.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Frances and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Frances and good morning everybody and welcome to CIT's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2011 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in February.
Any references to non-GAAP measures are meant to provide meaningful insight and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website www.cit.com.
I'd now like to turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you for being on the call.
We reported a solid second quarter with $245 million of pretax income before the debt repayment expenses.
Our Commercial assets grew $600 million which is the third consecutive quarterly growth.
And we originated $2.4 billion of new funded volume which was up 19% sequentially.
All 4 of our core businesses were profitable on a pretax pre-debt repayment basis.
And we saw a significant improvement in our economic finance margin which Scott will talk about in more detail later.
We continued our balance sheet liability restructuring lowering our overall funding costs.
We repaid $4.2 billion of higher cost debt and we issued $2.8 billion of new debt including $2 billion of unsecured debt.
We continue to expand CIT Bank.
Over 90% of our U.S.
volume is now being originated by CIT Bank.
CIT Bank's assets crossed over the $10 billion mark and our Internet deposit gathering exceeded $2 billion in total.
Our credit metrics were strong and stable with charge-offs at or near cyclical lows.
On the written agreement with the Fed we continue to wait for a response from the Fed.
We have not heard anything back from them yet.
In terms of the economic environment that we're operating in it's okay not great.
We see slow growth in the U.S.
consistent with the most recent GDP number.
We do see a slowdown in Brazil and we continue to see growth in China.
Going through our different businesses Corporate Finance.
Corporate Finance had the fourth consecutive quarter of over $1 billion of committed volume.
We closed over 60 transactions with 10 lead agency roles.
Our Equipment Finance business and our Commercial Real Estate businesses which are newer businesses for us continued to see good growth.
On the Transportation side our commercial aircraft were 99% utilized and our railcars were 98% utilized.
And we grew our order book both in air where we ordered some new A330s which were reported in the press.
And we will report later today an incremental order of 3 000 tank cars in the Rail sector.
In the Vendor business.
Our Vendor business our volume was up 13% sequentially.
And our Trade business the factored volume was just down slightly.
We did continue to sell off our student loans.
We sold $1.1 billion of student loans.
Our balance sheet is very strong.
Our capital ratios our total capital ratio was about 19%.
Our Tier 1 Capital ratio was 18%.
We continue to be very liquid with $7 billion of cash and short-term investments.
And our tangible book was right around $39.87.
So with that I'll turn it over to Scott to give you some more details.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We continue to make progress towards achieving our profitability targets.
Funded volume and Commercial assets grew.
Margin has improved as funding costs declined and we are moving closer to our target funding mix.
And portfolio quality remains stable with credit metrics close to cyclical lows.
As John mentioned we reported $71 million net loss or $0.35 per share.
Consistent with last quarter this was driven by accelerated FSA and other debt-related charges as we continue to execute on our liability management initiatives.
Excluding these charges pretax earnings was $245 million up from $214 million in the first quarter.
The increase came as lower funding and credit costs and higher net FSA accretion benefit more than offset lower gain on asset sales and increased operating expenses.
Now let's talk about the key drivers and I will focus my comments on sequential trends.
Total finance and leasing assets were down slightly as the Commercial portfolio grew just over $0.5 billion and the consumer book contracted due to the sale of $1.1 billion of student loans.
Finance and leasing assets grew in 3 of our 4 Commercial segments as $2.4 billion of funded volume which included about $300 million of scheduled aircraft deliveries grew 19% from the first quarter.
Net finance margin excluding FSA was 302 basis points up 105 basis points from last quarter.
As I noted at Investor Day our net finance margin continues to improve with some quarterly variability around the trendline as we execute on the restructuring of our balance sheet.
As with prior quarters the margin included some discrete items that totaled about 50 basis points specifically interest recoveries and other yield-related fees and suspended depreciation.
Interest recoveries and other yield-related fees contributed about 30 basis points to the margin this quarter and are running higher than historical norms.
While these are event-driven we expect this benefit to decline significantly in the second quarter of 2012.
Suspended depreciation on assets held for sale will continue to benefit finance margin by about 20 basis points until the Vendor Finance European portfolio sales close next year.
Excluding these items our margin was about 250 basis points with the continued improvement reflecting our progress in refinancing high-cost debt raising deposits and improving our portfolio mix.
Deposits grew as a percent of total funding and new deposit rates have declined positively impacting margin.
And our portfolio has shifted towards a greater proportion of higher-yielding Commercial assets as we have sold student loans and reduced the level of both parent company cash and non-accrual loans.
Our liability management actions continue to benefit margin and we expect an additional 10 basis points of improvement in the third quarter from actions we took last quarter.
In addition we recently announced that we'll redeem another $600 million in August which will provide some modest additional benefit in the second half of the year.
So overall we are making good progress towards our finance margin target.
Other income was $144 million down from the first quarter and was primarily driven by some non-core items.
At Investor Day we defined our core non-spread revenue as fee and other income factoring commissions and gain on sale of leasing equipment.
These totaled $83 million and were down modestly from last quarter.
All other non-spread revenue items totaled $61 million down $100 million primarily due to lower gain on asset sales.
As John mentioned our credit metrics remained stable with continued low level of charge-offs and non-accruals.
This quarter's provision for credit losses reflected the lower charge-offs and a modest reduction in the allowance primarily due to asset mix.
As a percentage of finance receivables the reserve is essentially flat at 2.06%.
Operating expenses were $240 million up $17 million from last quarter.
We had higher employee costs largely related to the full quarter of expense from the February equity grant.
Expenses related to our Internet deposit platform are also increasing as we grow the deposit base.
And finally there were additional costs related to operational as well as new business initiatives this quarter where we expect some continued short-term pressure.
Finally our first quarter income tax provision was $28 million was primarily driven by international earnings.
And we are seeing -- or we're starting to see some benefits from our subsidiary recapitalization efforts.
Now I'd like to turn to the segment results.
Consistent with last quarter we included a table in the press release which adjusts for the accelerated FSA interest expense and other debt-related costs that are allocated to each segment.
Remember that these costs are driven by our debt repayment activities.
My remarks will again focus on the sequential trends excluding this impact.
Corporate Finance's adjusted pretax income fell to $94 million.
Lower gain on loan sales were partially offset by higher yield-related fees FSA accretion from the TRS counterparty receivable and lower credit costs.
The portfolio increased over 3% primarily driven by our U.S.
middle market business.
Funded and committed volumes were down 7% and 13% respectively primarily from lower volumes in our International business.
Real estate volume was also little lighter this quarter but we view that as a trend -- as a matter of timing as the pipeline looks good and we continue to make progress.
New business was evenly split between cash flow and asset-based or other secured lending of which over 90% was originated by CIT Bank.
Nearly 60% of the U.S.
Corporate Finance portfolio is now in CIT Bank.
Pricing remains relatively stable in the core middle market and deal flow continues to be strong in our Energy Healthcare and Entertainment groups.
And as John mentioned we are gaining traction on lead agency roles.
Credit metrics improved slightly with declines in charge-offs and non-accruals.
Trade Finance's adjusted pretax income grew to $12 million benefiting from lower credit costs.
Factoring volume was down 2% primarily due to a couple of large non-apparel clients where we are actively managing our exposures.
Factoring commissions were in line with the lower volumes and portfolio mix.
And overall portfolio quality remains solid.
Vendor Finance's adjusted pretax income was $27 million versus a loss in the prior quarter reflecting improved funding cost higher non-spread revenue and lower credit cost.
The first quarter was negatively impacted by the adjustments to interest revenue in the Mexico portfolio we discussed last quarter.
New business volume increased 13% sequentially with growth both in the U.S.
and internationally.
We continue to grow with existing partners and increase the number of relationships with new manufacturers and dealers.
New business margins continue to benefit as virtually all new U.S.
business is originated by CIT Bank.
And we have made progress on our international funding initiatives.
We renewed our U.K.
conduit and recently completed a term equipment securitization in Canada both with very good terms.
And finally credit metrics remained stable and near cyclical lows.
Transportation Finance adjusted pretax income increased to $129 million reflecting lower funding costs higher net rental revenues and lower credit costs.
Finance and leasing assets grew 2% with growth both in the leased equipment and loan portfolios.
New volume was strong and included scheduled deliveries as well as loans with almost $300 million funded by CIT Bank.
We sold about $200 million of assets and moved about a dozen aircraft into assets held for sale as part of our continued fleet management activity.
As John mentioned air utilization remains strong at over 99%.
And in our Rail business overall trends are good.
Fleet utilization increased to 98% and rental rates remain attractive.
We noted some softness in the coal market last quarter due to the mild winter and lower natural gas prices but are starting to see evidence of increased demand driven by the hot summer.
Now turning to funding.
We further improved the economics and composition of our debt structure this quarter.
We continue to access the capital markets at attractive rates.
We issued another $2 billion of senior unsecured debt with a weighted average coupon just over 5% and a weighted average life of around 6 years.
We also obtained attractive financing from the $750 million U.S.
Vendor equipment securitization which had an average weighted average coupon of 1.5% and the $500 million Canadian term securitization recently issued just below 2.3%.
We renewed our Vendor U.K.
conduit at more attractive terms and continued to fund new Airbus aircraft under our existing ECA facility.
John mentioned with respect to the bank we exceeded $2 billion in Internet deposits and we established a $1 billion Vendor conduit facility that will provide additional committed liquidity.
During the second quarter we redeemed or repurchased $4.2 billion of 7% Series debt and we recently announced that we'll redeem another $600 million in August.
That leaves us at about $4 billion of the 7% debt remaining with about $450 million of FSA discount.
We will continue to evaluate all opportunities to address this remaining balance.
Our liquidity and capital ratios at the bank and bank holding company remain strong.
And we are progressing towards our target funding mix with deposits now representing 23% of total funding unsecured debt at 44% and secured debt appropriately sized at 33%.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Frances and we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the margin? And I noticed you had some one-time benefit I think you quantified at about 30 basis points.
But how high do you think you could continue to move that margin and where do you expect it to settle out by the end of the year? Yes so I think there was 2 items I mentioned.
One was the interest recoveries in yield-related is about 30 basis points and then the benefit from suspended depreciation is about 20 basis points.
So it's about 50 basis points in total.
As I mentioned some of the actions we've taken in the second quarter we'll see some benefit rolling into the third quarter of about 10 basis points.
The $600 million redemption will also provide a modest benefit.
But I think the continued progression of all our different funding activities as we've mentioned at Investor Day will continue to move the margin towards our long-term targets.
So what we'll be at at the end of the year I don't have that off hand.
But I think the trend continues to be positive and upward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
On the fee income side if I look at the fee income excluding sort of the lumpier stuff like the gains and the amortizations and impairment with that what about this core fee income is not really moving much? I would expect that the new business volume and improving originations stream to start to help your fee income.
I look back historically pre-crisis you guys generated a lot more fee income.
Is there something changed in the business? Obviously the syndication market is not there.
But what else has changed that's not driving as much non-spread revenue? I think it's mainly the syndications Chris.
I mean right now the amount -- most of the deal market and the middle market is club and so people are holding and not selling down.
I think what will happen over time we might get back to the point where theres the same type of syndication income.
But it's really more market-driven not CIT-specific.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and last one for me and then I'll hop off.
Any indications at all from the Fed on timing? The 3-year anniversary is coming up.
I mean is there exam cycle that we should be aware of? Is there anything we can point to on the Feds given the fact that as you get closer to year end? My understanding is if you don't get the agreement lifted before early 2013 you may not be able to do any return capital to shareholders in 2014.
There's no exam cycle.
We continue to wait for a response from the Fed.
I certainly expect to get one before the end of the year and hopefully much sooner than that.
I think we will continue as we've said before to include some form of capital return in our 2013 filings with the Fed.
As you know we're not a CCAR bank but we do have to file a capital plan.
So our 2000 capital -- 2013 capital plan that we filed we anticipate to include some form of capital return.
Your next question is from the line of Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions Scott.
Can you talk about what was the indemnification reserve in the quarter? Yes it was a charge that we took related to a sale of the small portfolio of consumer assets that happened pre-2005.
And we feel we're fully reserved now.
Research Division</strong> Now was that related to the mortgage sales to loan stock? No it was not.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Scott you mentioned that you're making some progress on the tax or capitalizing some foreign subs.
Can you talk a little bit more about that and what you think the best way to think about taxes going forward should be? We've been using a sort of $1 approach.
Yes I think for the remaining of the year I would continue to use a dollar approach.
There's the nuances of FSA which is not a tax concept it's a book concept.
We continue to make progress as I stated on some of the subsidiary recapitalization but Don it takes time for some of that to kind of flow through.
So I think we're making progress but we still -- at least for the next couple quarters I wouldn't expect any significant change in the tax rate -- tax dollars sorry.
Your next question is from the line of Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about liquidity available to pay off remaining 7% debt? How much of that you may be able to pay with existing cash or cash flow from the business versus issuing new debt? Well if you look at the numbers we have in the press release the cash at the parent company has come down over each subsequent quarter.
We are a little bit under $2 billion at the parent company.
A lot of the cash right now is in the bank as we've kind of sold student loans so the expectation is that liquidity cannot be used for the debt.
That will be used to fund originations in the bank.
The one area we have restricted cash which is about $1 billion.
So the one area that we've been focusing on is some of our other international cash.
So I think there's some room there as we did with the Canadian securitization.
We talked about that we are looking at additional international funding opportunities for our Vendor business which will generate some cash.
And then we also will look at the capital markets opportunistically to also help with the reduction of the further $4 billion of 7% debt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any color you can give on timing on how quick you expect to repay the remainder? I think John mentioned we have a strong desire to remove it as fast as possible.
But it's really kind of dependent.
We do need some -- a capital markets transaction for the size of what we're talking about and so that's really dependent on market conditions.
But if we can get it done in 2012 that would be a great achievement.
If it slips a little bit then it's really going to be more dependent on market versus our desire.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could give a little bit more color on the Trade Finance segment.
We saw some improvement there.
If you strip out some of the FSA noise that were really driven by credit and improved funding costs but factoring volumes and commissions were down both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis.
And I just wondered if you could give some perspective as to your outlook for core business trend improvement and timing as we look forward from here? Yes.
As I mentioned Bill in the quarter we had a couple specific accounts that kind of was a main driver of the volume.
If you look at some of our core segments the growth is consistent with GDP.
So I think the piece that we balance is between the volume and fee income relative to the credit cost.
And so I think you -- that's something that we continue to need to balance.
But as John mentioned -- John Lucas mentioned at the Investor we're continuing to look at other growth opportunities and also winning back customers over the next couple quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk a little bit about seasonality and what role that had? I mean just looking at some of your numbers historically pre the bankruptcy it looks like the second quarter you tended to see funded new business volume growth seemed to kind of improve.
And I wonder if you could just comment on how much overall seasonality plays on the funding new business volume growth this quarter? For Trade specifically? Research Division</strong> Actually for -- maybe if you could just speak of -- to all the businesses broadly? Well I think Trade is definitely seasonal.
That's kind of why we use kind of year-over-year comparisons because you have ramp-ups to different kind of seasons the Christmas season now the back-to-school season.
So I think a year-over-year comparison for Trade is the most relevant.
Vendor does have some seasonality.
The fourth quarter tends to be kind of elevated for some of the equipment that we lease.
And that's why when we kind of talk about that one first quarter kind of tends to be down a little bit versus fourth quarter being a high.
But other than that I think that's probably the only kind of real seasonal area.
Corporate Finance I think we're in a period -- third quarter tends to be -- could be kind of seasonal because of vacations.
August is kind of a slow month.
So it really comes down to either pre kind of holidays or post-holidays.
So I think that's something that's there.
And on the aircraft most of that's scheduled delivery so I wouldn't say there's a lot of seasonality other than our delivery schedules.
So in those quarters like in the first quarter we had very little order deliveries and that's going be a little bit more lumpy.
But we talk about the deliveries and have broken that out for you.
At the Investor meeting we'll continue to talk about that.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And last quick one here and I'll jump off.
What would be the book value impact of paying down the remaining Series C debt if you could share that? Yes so outside of the $600 million we already announced that that was about $30 million of FSA.
So the remaining $4 billion has about $450 million of FSA discount and that does not include any potential debt extinguishment cost that we cannot predict or forecast until the transactions happen.
Your next question is from the line of Moshe Orenbuch from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about the expenses in the quarter? When you mentioned the equity grant kind of continuing is that an ongoing expense or is that one-time? And kind of how should we think about that relative to on an efficiency basis given that revenues are kind of flattish at the moment? Yes the equity grant was more really just a sequential trend from the first quarter to second quarter.
Since they were issued in mid-February there was not a full quarter impact in the first quarter and that came through in the second quarter.
So that's not -- that was just a sequential analysis in the numbers going forward.
I think with respect to the other pieces it's a balancing act.
But we're trying to continue to invest in the growth of the business and the platforms and balancing that with cost reductions.
So I think we focus on this but it is a balancing act that if the growth does not come I think we have kind of have to kind of sharpen our pencil around that.
But I think part of where we are is we're starting to get the momentum and we need the platforms and the infrastructure in order to meet our customer expectations.
Research Division</strong> In the text Scott you had mentioned some one-time charges that then I think said were offset by kind of one-time gains or were that $14 million kind of one-time kind of and should be netted out? Well the $14 million is definitely a one-timer and there was a few positive one-timers that kind of partially offset that.
And so that's why I think I was saying that the run rate's a little bit higher than we had in the first quarter.
Your next question is from the line of Brad Ball from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify on the net interest margin comment.
I think you said that the suspended depreciation benefited the margin about 20 basis points and that that would continue.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> So that lasts into next year based on what? It's based on the assets we have held in -- held for sale that we kind of break out.
So when those assets are actually sold the net debt benefit will go away.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any sense for the timing? Is that going to be first half second half next year? It's really kind of variable based on kind of our transition schedules.
So I can't kind of tell you but it will be sometime next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then that's going stay in the roughly 20 basis point range? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on credit quality you continue to put up numbers that are better than your long-term forecast for net charge-offs.
You came in at 33 basis points this quarter.
I think John's comments were that we're probably nearer the bottom here.
How should we look at credit quality going forward? Do you expect that you'll trough remain near the bottom for a while or will that bounce around? Well I guess we're consistent I think with the rest of the industry around credit.
If you kind of think about we're at $17 million in charge-offs so there's not a lot of room on the downside.
And I think the piece Brad there's -- the Vendor business is fairly kind of -- since it's a flow nature it's fairly consistent.
I think the area where you'll get some variation because it's much more event-driven would be on the Corporate Finance side.
But I don't expect that this thing is going to shoot back up.
But we're -- as we said we're probably kind of near cyclical lows.
And depending on how GDP the overall macro environment I think our losses will probably trend consistent with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally I wonder if you could give us an update you guys have talked about having an appetite for potentially buying deposits or buying branches.
Any comment on the prospects there how the M&amp;A environment looks for other ways to use your capital between now and perhaps when do you get approval to return it to shareholders next year? We would continue and do continue to look at opportunities to buy deposits.
There haven't been a lot of transactions.
And so that's really just opportunistic.
As things come up we will look at them.
But right now as you see from the banks' own liquidity position with $3 billion of cash in there we don't need a lot of deposits right now.
Research Division</strong> And nothing really on the asset purchase side either didn't do anything this quarter? We -- there continue to be these portfolios primarily coming out of the European banks but not very many of them have actually traded.
We evaluate them.
They tend to have relatively low yields.
And the European banks at least so far have been unwilling to sell them at appropriate discounts.
So we see them but we haven't been -- obviously been scheduled to buying any but not a lot have traded as far as we can tell either.
Your next question is from the line of David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
I wonder could you give us an update on pricing in Corporate Finance? Has there been any change? What kind of average yields were there? I'd say that the pricing as I mentioned was stable.
So I think overall the marketplace is pretty disciplined so we feel good about that.
So we haven't seen much change from the first quarter.
Okay.
And then how much additional capacity is there to fund railcars in the bank? Is there any? In the short term the orders we're placing and the volume we're putting in there we don't have any near-term constraints or restrictions.
So all the orders you've got still to be delivered should be able to go on the bank? Yes the majority of those.
Yes.
Okay.
And then finally could you just give us some sense -- I think it looked like amortization on debt was lower in the quarter than it has been.
Is that the normal run rate? Amortization on the debt side? Yes.
You're talking about the FSA amortization? Yes.
The normal amortization not the prepayment-related amortization? Well I think it would come down just naturally as we -- the run rate because when we prepay it we accelerate that.
So what's remaining is a much smaller piece to amortize.
And I think that would be -- just like the assets I think those -- you'd continue to see that trend.
Your next question is from the line of Sameer Gokhale from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple.
First one was on the operating expenses.
You talked about it a little bit.
But if we look at the headcount and the increase sequentially which businesses is that where you're adding headcount? Could you -- I don't recall if you talked about that.
I think at least on the growth perspective most of the headcount is in -- growth would be in Vendor and Corporate Finance.
And other areas would just be as we -- it grow out build out our international platforms.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Vendor and Corporate Finance I mean are there any specific sub-businesses that you think are particularly attractive at this point in time that's causing you to add headcount there? We've been adding -- well again we hired Capital Markets Neil joined us and that was a big add.
So I think that one gives us market color.
We have added some originators in certain industry groups that I would say we feel there's attractive opportunities.
And then in the Vendor business I think it's been more along the lines of both industry but also getting more feet on the street.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then my second question is just so Ive got a general perspective on how you're thinking about this.
But I think 90% of volume this quarter was originated in the bank.
But then clearly those volume originated at the hold co.
And I know you have some various -- like the Vendor the conduit facility et cetera which are also being used to fund loans.
But if you think about pricing on your loans on loans made at the parent how are you thinking about those and are you willing to say accept lower pricing on certain loans because that may help you gain market share? And then you have cash sitting there that it's better than just sitting on cash or the marginal return is better even if you're willing to accept a lower yield on that cash.
Of course you'll be using part of it to pay down the debt as you have been doing.
But just some sense of how you're thinking about the marginal return on the cash that you have and the capital at the parent and how you're thinking about that? Okay.
Well let's start at the parent level.
So on a cash basis the cash that we're holding is cash liquidity we think is prudent as we've talked about before to make sure that in the stressed environment that we're able to continue to fund our business and make other commitments that we have with respect to the business.
So that cash we don't think of as being able to have a marginal decision.
This cash is part of operating the company.
From a second piece about assets and how we think about those at the parent company both John and I have a big focus on making sure that the returns on assets that we put at the parent company have acceptable returns.
And in the event like we've talked about in a few situations with Corporate Finance if we have a lead role with a customer and we cannot finance that in the bank we do have to make a bigger strategic decision which is -- does that one transaction have a broader implication on our business and that one may have a more marginal analysis than kind of returning the targeted return we're looking for at the parent company.
And then on the Vendor business as we do -- a lot of this is we have expectations and we've delivered that in Canada we have several others where we'll be able to relieve the parent company cash with other funding facilities that we'll see over the coming quarters.
I would just add that in general when we price loans to -- that we expect to hold at the parent we build into the return analysis the higher funding cost of the parent.
And I think your basic premise to your question are we accepting lower returns or lower yield at the parent? The answer would be no.
Your next question is from the line of Henry Coffey from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> In looking at your numbers here it looks like for the last 3 quarters when you reverse all the FSA but keep the taxes and all the other noise in there you're starting to generate earnings of about $60 million to $65 million a quarter.
Is that sustainable and are we at the point where we're going to actually start to see real growth in economic book value? Well I think Henry I think it's sustainable in the sense that the progress on the funding cost is real.
And we've been able to hold or grow the yields over the last several quarters.
So based on that the only other driver that you didn't mention really was around the volatility of the non-spread right? So the core operating metrics between credit margin and kind of maintaining operating discipline on the expenses side translate into that positive economic earnings.
Research Division</strong> And we've talked a lot about the 7% notes the other half of the FSA mark on your debt is -- or approximate other half is tied to some senior -- the senior debt facilities.
Are those likely to be restructured -- they're not very efficient if I remember correctly.
Are those likely to be restructured and reworked over the next year as well? And what are the implications of succeeding at that? Yes actually most of the FSA that's remaining on the debt side is really related to the term securitizations we have at the parent company and the student loans.
So as you recall last year we restructured one of those because they had auction-rate paper and took the accelerated FSA.
So if you think about it a lot of the loan FSA accretion left is consumer and the debt FSA on those secured structures are the ones that will kind of offset if we let those run the term.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Bruce from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping John you might be able to provide a little bit more context to your earlier comment about that you're operating in that okay not great economic environment.
Is that a downgrade at all from prior views or is it stable at this point? No it's pretty consistent with what we talked about last time.
So in the U.S.
our business activity level is consistent with the U.S.
economy that's growing but growing slowly.
And so 1.5% GDP growth I think is consistent with what we would see in our business.
The only place I was a little bit more negative is in Brazil.
We are seeing a slowdown in Brazil which is more recent.
Obviously Europe is -- depending upon what country you look at but generally in a recession.
But that's not -- we're not particularly exposed to that.
And then even if China's slowing down a little bit we still see good growth there and the absolute number is still quite positive.
So our business continues to grow in China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just remind us how much of your revenues or assets are in Brazil? Yes we don't have the revenue breakout but its couple hundred million of assets.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly you mentioned to Brad's question about M&amp;A that you have an interest in deposits.
But I don't know if you've really formalized whether you have any interest in brick-and-mortar branches or that if you're just looking at trying to grow the Internet deposit base from here? Well we have said before that we would entertain opportunities to buy brick-and-mortar deposits.
So it would depend on where they were and what they cost.
But yes we would anticipate at some point to have some degree of brick-and-mortar deposits.
At this time there are no other questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Brause for your closing remarks.
Well we thank you all very much for joining this morning.
And if you have any follow-up questions please either call me or any member of the Investor Relations team and we'll be happy to help.
Thank you and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Chanel and good morning and welcome to CIT's third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Our call today is hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2011 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in February.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insight and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'd now like turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining our third quarter earnings call.
This quarter we reached several strategic milestones.
Most significantly we completed the refinancing or repayment of all $31 billion of debt that was originally issued in the restructuring.
We also issued $4 billion of new debt.
That debt had around a 4% cost and around a 6-year weighted average life.
And very importantly we celebrated the 1-year anniversary of our Internet Bank and our Internet deposits as of today are just under $4 billion.
So in a little over a year we raised just under $4 billion of Internet deposits.
Bank deposits overall now account for 28% of our overall funding mix.
CIT Bank exceeded $11 billion of assets at the end of the quarter and it is now funding 96% of our U.S.
new originations.
Our commercial assets in the quarter grew for the fourth consecutive quarter and also for the fourth consecutive quarter we raised over $2 billion of funded volume so continued growth on the commercial asset side.
Our credit metrics remain strong and as we reported we generated pretax earnings of $170 million before the debt redemption expenses.
Our economic finance margin was stable and we are seeing some areas of pricing pressure which Scott will talk about in his comments.
Our view of the U.S.
economy is that it continues to grow but it's growing slowly.
And we are seeing slowing in growth in other parts of the world particularly Europe.
We saw a slowdown in Brazil and we are seeing some slowdown in China.
We also did see in some of our businesses a seasonal effect in the month of August being somewhat slower.
In our Corporate Finance business we had the sixth consecutive quarter of over $1 billion of committed volume.
Our portfolio in Corporate Finance continues to grow and our Equipment Finance business and our Commercial Real Estate businesses are both doing well.
In our Trade Finance business our factoring volume was up sequentially but it's due to seasonal factors.
We did see some weakness in the apparel sector.
In the Transportation businesses we continued to see strong utilization in our commercial air and in our rail fleet.
Our commercial aircraft were 99% utilized and our railcars were 98% utilized.
We also put to work over 1 700 new railcars which were delivered and almost all of those railcars are in CIT Bank.
In our Vendor Finance business our assets were up 3% sequentially 7% from a year ago.
And in terms of financial condition our capital remains very strong 17.5% total capital.
We remain very liquid with over $7 billion of cash.
On the written agreement we continue to wait for a response from the Fed.
In terms of our priorities going forward for the rest of this year and into 2013 we will focus on growing our earning assets; we will focus on managing our expenses which Scott will talk about more; and we'll focus on growing our bank CIT Bank both on the asset side and on the deposit side.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
As John noted we achieved several key milestones that are contributing to our operating momentum.
Core economic margin continues to improve towards our target range as funding costs declined with the elimination of the high-cost debt and more assets being funded with deposits.
Credit metrics remain stable and near cyclical lows and we have ample reserves more than 2% on commercial assets.
And in spite of the slowing economy our commercial portfolio grew 10% from a year ago.
We have made good progress in many areas.
Our franchises are strong.
However macro challenges such as the low interest rate environment excess market liquidity and slowing global growth are creating headwinds.
As a result it may take longer to achieve our targets asset levels.
Therefore we have increased our focus on operating expenses and finding more opportunities to generate fee income.
Turning to the quarter.
As John mentioned we recorded a $305 million GAAP loss that again was driven by the accelerated FSA interest expense and other debt-related charges.
Excluding these charges pretax earnings were $170 million down from $245 million in the second quarter.
The decrease came as lower funding and credit costs were more than offset by lower net FSA accretion benefit fewer asset sales and less interest recoveries and yield-related fees.
Total finance and Leasing Assets were up for the first time since December 2009.
The commercial portfolio grew $600 million during the quarter to almost $30 billion up 10% from a year ago.
All of our commercial segments had portfolio growth as $2.2 billion of funded volume which included only about $160 million of scheduled aircraft deliveries outpaced collections depreciation and asset sales.
Our economic margin which includes FSA was 297 basis points relatively flat to the prior quarter but nearly double a year ago.
Our core margin which excludes the benefit from suspended depreciation and interest recovery and other related fees improved to about 260 basis points.
And we expect to see an additional 40-basis-point improvement in the fourth quarter from our liability restructuring efforts.
Interest recoveries and yield-related fees were down significantly this quarter as we expected.
And suspended depreciation was up slightly due to additional transportation equipment and assets held for sale.
Other income was $81 million down from the second quarter.
Our core non-spread revenue which we define as fee and other income factoring commissions and gain on sale of leasing equipment was $85 million up modestly from last quarter.
As we have noted in the past we expected lower gain on asset sales than in prior periods which have been elevated due to our portfolio optimization efforts as well as reduced levels of pre-emergence recoveries.
Outside those items the main driver of the change this quarter was lower FSA accretion from the TRS counterparty receivable.
Operating expenses were $237 million down modestly from last quarter.
We laid out our expense target at between 200 and 225 basis points of average earning assets and we are running well above that level.
While we expect to begin to see operating leverage in the fourth quarter from our average earning asset growth we also need expense reductions to achieve our target.
We have a roadmap to reduce the quarterly operating run rate by $15 million to $20 million per quarter.
These reductions will be phased in over 2013 and will come from improved operating efficiencies and reductions in professional fees and employee cost.
In the third quarter we took a $5 million restructuring charge and there may be additional charges over the next few quarters.
Finally our third quarter income tax provision of $3 million declined from $28 million in the second quarter as a result of geographic mix of earnings as well as a benefit related to discrete items.
I'd like to turn to the segment results now.
We again included the table in the press release that adjusts for the accelerated FSA interest expense and other debt-related cost allocated to each segment.
My remarks will focus on the sequential trends excluding this impact.
Corporate Finances adjusted pretax income was $44 million.
The decline from last quarter was due to lower interest recoveries and other yield-related fees and lower non-spread revenue from the TRS counterparty receivable accretion.
This was partly offset by the reduction in the credit reserve.
The portfolio increased 3% since last quarter and 10% from a year ago primarily driven by our U.S.
middle market lending business and our new initiatives in Commercial Real Estate and Equipment Finance.
Funded volumes were down 7% from the second quarter not surprising given the August slowdown but up over 60% for the first 9 months compared to 2011.
And we continue to see growing pipelines in our Commercial Real Estate and Equipment Finance businesses.
New business was evenly split between cash flow and asset secured lending with almost 95% of the U.S.
volume originated by CIT Bank.
Now nearly 55% of the U.S.
Corporate Finance portfolio is in CIT Bank up from about 50% last quarter and 40% a year ago.
As John mentioned we saw in the quarter some pressure on pricing and structure in the cash flow lending given the excess demand and limited supply.
We are maintaining our risk discipline to ensure new business meets our risk-adjusted returns.
Overall the business is making progress towards its profitability targets.
However since we maintain reserves based on an expected loss greater than 1 year near-term profitability will be masked as the business grows.
Also credit metrics improved with declines in net charge-offs and non-accruals.
In addition reserves declined as legacy assets with higher reserves were repaid.
Trade Finances adjusted pretax income grew modestly to $13 million reflecting higher non-spread revenues and lower funding cost.
John mentioned the factoring volume was up 8% from the second quarter due to seasonality but down 6% from the prior year primarily due to the active management of our exposures and lower overall factoring volume in the apparel space.
Factoring commissions increased in line with higher volumes.
And overall portfolio quality remained solid.
Vendor Finance adjusted pretax income was $2 million down from $27 million last quarter due to lower other revenue and higher operating expenses.
Portfolio assets grew 3% sequentially and 7% from a year ago.
New business volume is up 15% for the first 9 months compared to 2011 but decreased 7% sequentially primarily due to summer seasonality as well as a slowdown in certain leasing markets.
New business yields are stable though we are starting to see pockets of pricing pressure.
We made more progress on the international funding initiatives and put in place a new facility -- funding facility in China with attractive rates supporting our growth initiatives.
Overall assets are growing and new originations are outpacing economic growth in the markets in which we do business.
Many platforms are performing well but the macro challenges I described earlier are putting pressure on asset targets.
While we have significant operating leverage that can support our growth the key to improving profitability in this business is managing our expense base.
Transportation Finance's adjusted pretax income increased to $134 million reflecting the lower funding cost and higher non-spread revenue partially offset by higher credit card -- credit cost.
While we took delivery of fewer aircraft this quarter assets grew both in the operating lease and loan portfolios.
We continue to actively manage our fleet and we sold about $125 million of air and rail equipment and moved additional aircraft into held for sale.
Air utilization rates remained strong at over 99% and we have placed almost all of our forward deliveries over the next 12 months.
In our rail business overall operating trends are positive.
Fleet utilization remains at around 98% rental rates remain attractive and we are seeing strong demand for the new cars that we ordered.
We continue to access cost-efficient funding sources with a focus on building out our bank deposit platform.
We are progressing towards our target funding mix with deposits now representing 28% of total funding unsecured debt at 39% and secured debt at 33%.
You may recall that we are targeting 35% to 45% in deposits and the rest evenly split between secured and unsecured debt.
Our actions have reduced the weighted average coupon to just over 3.25% which positions our businesses to be competitive in our markets.
Liquidity metrics at the bank and the holding company remained strong.
Liquidity is 20% of assets and consists of $7 billion in cash and short-term investments and $1.4 billion of available capacity under our revolver.
And the success of our deposit raising has enhanced our liquidity profile and positions our bank to support new business growth.
Over time we expect to gradually deploy a portion of our cash into high-quality marketable securities consistent with other bank holding companies.
However the interest rate environment will influence the pace of our deployment.
And finally capital ratios continue to be strong at the bank and bank holding company and we still intend to submit our 2013 capital plan to the Fed in January.
In summary we feel good about the progress we have made.
Now that most of the debt FSA has been accelerated our 2013 reported GAAP results should be easier to analyze and will better reflect our operating performance.
Our franchises are strong and performing well especially in this environment.
That said we recognize the macro challenges and we are focused on achieving our profitability targets.
With that I'd like to turn it back over to Chanel and we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Brendler Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to get a little more detail if I could on the expense initiatives you're talking about.
Expenses continue to be relatively elevated on an asset basis I missed my estimate as well by a little bit but are you talking about a pretty significant restructuring or are there areas that you can trim? Or what are we talking about in terms of expenses and how quickly do you think you can get to the low 2s at this level of asset growth? Yes Chris this is Scott.
I would say that it's -- the way we're thinking about the expenses as you know we've been doing a lot of investment to build the infrastructure for the bank holding company as well as the bank.
We've had to beef up a lot of the control areas.
And so I think where we are today is at that juncture where we can get efficiencies out of that infrastructure build.
And so it's going to be as I mentioned in my prepared remarks it's going to be something that's phased in over the next 12 months.
And it really is going to be focused on our operating efficiencies within the platforms.
We've had elevated professional fees.
Had a lot of work as I said to build that infrastructure for the capital plan for international tax planning et cetera and we think those levels have been elevated and can come down as we get through 2012.
And then also we need to look at some of the under-scaled platforms that we have and make sure that we can either rightsize those to the profitability targets or try to get the expenses in line to achieve those goals.
So I don't think -- it's not a broad-brush approach.
It's a very calculated selective approach.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up question I guess on the fee income.
It continues to be an area where I'm just surprised at the level of weakness especially fee and other line which I think was $19 million this quarter and that's really a very low level.
Is there anything onetime running through that line that I'm not aware of? And I also wanted to ask the obvious question on the Fed.
You mentioned your plans sort of your capital plan in [ph] 2013.
Do you think this plan that it's more likely that we have the Fed in the formal agreement addressed concurrently with that capital plan submission? Or if you don't get the formal agreement listed by the end of the year does that preclude you from doing your capital plan 2013? Any color there would be very helpful.
Okay Chris on the first one on the fee side I would say that in the core when you look at the fee revenue and the gain on leasing equipment and factoring have been pretty stable.
The other revenue has been impacted by some of the asset sales we have just the way that the accounting works and what line items they flow through.
So I think you see in the other revenue that kind of the higher levels in the past quarters was probably too elevated.
So as we talked about we need -- we are focusing on ways to improve our fee income core fee income.
And if you look at overall non-spread as we've talked about the biggest changes really as we get further away from the restructuring the recoveries on a pre-emergence will continue to kind of the dwindle.
And the gain in the loan portfolios we'll have some gains on the portfolio but again we're trying to grow assets and we've done most of the portfolio pruning.
And then the last item was the counterparty -- FSA counterparty accretion that was really elevated last quarter and really kind of came down this quarter.
So that was kind of more of a true-up of that structure that we have.
So on the capital plan John you...
Yes so in terms of the Fed and the capital plan those are very different items.
So the written agreement had to do with many of the internal control processes so risk management credit management the credit scoring credit grading compliance.
Much of the internal controls which as Scott mentioned we have spent the last 2.5 years building.
And we are now in very good shape in terms of that internal control infrastructure which is why we've said multiple times on this call and other places that from our perspective we have in fact satisfied all of the elements that were required under the written agreement.
So we continue to wait for the Fed's response to that.
That's separate from the capital plan so we will in fact submit a capital plan at the beginning of next year.
That capital plan will include some amount of capital return and then we will go through the process of having the Fed evaluate that plan and give us response to that sometime in 2013.
But they are separate acts.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible that you could have some sort of capital -- return of capital plan and still have a formal agreement or no? Well I don't think we can answer that.
The formal agreement doesn't preclude returning capital it only says you have to get permission.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Despite redeeming the remaining $4.6 billion of Series C debt in the quarter cash was up Q-over-Q helped in part by accretion on deposit growth.
Can you talk about your expected use of cash going forward? Should we expect a portion of that cash to be used for future buyback and asset purchases? Or do you view that the current cash as necessary to fund organic loan growth and provide an ongoing liquidity cushion? Yes Mark I would  because a couple things.
If you look on the press release the one area that we've been very focused on is our cash in our international operating subs.
And I think if you looked from second quarter to the third quarter we came down almost in half and that was part of the proceeds we used to redeem some of the cash or some of the debt in August.
So that's one where we're trying to get the efficiencies of our international platforms.
I think at the parent company we're running a little bit under $2 billion of cash liquidity.
And we did pay down the revolver subsequent to the quarter end with some excess cash but I think at the parent company as we've mentioned before we do like to have liquidity for an extended period of time to fund future originations.
We also have to post collateral on some of our FX and interest rate hedges and also any other things that could happen during that time frame.
The biggest elevation really is in the bank.
And I think as other financial institutions have said we were very happy and proud of the success we've had on Internet deposit raising.
And we did sell some student loans earlier this year.
And if you take those student loans sales out kind of the liquidity would be fine.
So I think we have the growth that we're experiencing in the bank will eat up that cash over time but again just like at the holding company we want to have excess liquidity in the bank to cover both rollovers of our deposits as well as to fund future growth.
And those stresses that we do we think are pretty severe because we think liquidity is something we pride ourselves on.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I just have a follow-up on your capital plans.
Have you actually completed your internal stress test yet for capital submission? And if possible is there any color you can give us on what you think might be a reasonable request of the Fed? Well we're in the process of going through the capital plan.
We have done stress testing.
We've been doing stress testing for the last 12 months.
I think what we've done is enhance that and also come up with multiple scenarios more germane to our business.
I won't talk about the results of those I think it's premature to do that.
And I also think it's premature to talk about what level of capital could be until we get through the process.
As you know we're doing it based on kind of our internal and looking at past but the official guidelines don't come out until sometime in November.
And I don't want to get ahead of what those assumptions might be relative to what we're using.
Our next question comes from Brad Ball with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Scott could you talk about the difference between the 2.97% margin that you reported this quarter and the 2.60% that you described as core? Are there interest recoveries and accelerated depreciation in that difference? And will that carry over into the fourth quarter and next year? Yes so Brad roughly the difference we did have some interest recoveries and other yield-related fees but those were less than 10 basis points.
As you'll recall last quarter was more of  was north of around 30 basis points so they did come down significantly.
We will continue to have some level of those but they won't be at the levels that we've experienced.
On the suspended depreciation it did go up a little bit because we do -- we have the European Vendor portfolio that we've talked about but we did have some aircraft operating aircraft in the held for sale and those also have suspended depreciation.
So that amount went up a little bit.
So I would say that was kind of close a little bit under 30 basis points so that's kind of gets you from the 2.60% to the 2.97% roughly.
Research Division</strong> And will those carry into -- you mentioned that the interest recoveries will be lower but will the depreciation have an impact into next year? Yes I think the core so I think we were saying around 20 basis points was being driven by the Vendor Europe portfolio.
That will stick around into kind of into 2013.
On the aircraft it's just a matter of when those aircraft sales actually occur.
So I would say given what we have in the portfolio today that you should expect that the suspended depreciation is probably going to stay kind of where it is today.
It could be a little bit lower if we sell those aircraft before year end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So with the 40-basis-point benefit from the debt paydowns this quarter and in the fourth quarter plus the 2.60% core you're going to be right at the low end of your long-term target for the economic NIM? Correct.
That's kind of how we look at it.
So the reported may be a little bit higher in the fourth quarter but the core we think is tracking to the 3%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately on the expense initiatives you actually increased your headcount this quarter.
Were those folks producing employees? Were they out there making loans or who were they? And do you expect any staffing impacts from the expense initiatives? I would say that definitely on the headcount a portion of those definitely were revenue-producing some of our new initiatives in the Corporate Finance business and the Transportation business as well as some of our international growth.
I think some of it also is just some internal swap between kind of external resources consultants-type things versus full-time employees which is a better -- for some of our areas is a better model.
So we're really focused on the cost number versus just on the headcount side.
But again as we mentioned we have gone through a lot of reviews with the addition of Andrew and the rest of the leadership team of where we think there are opportunities to improve our efficiency across the platform now that we have put the high-cost debt behind us and also the franchises are performing well.
So we need to get our expenses in line to achieve our targets.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
Just following up on the earlier question on fee income.
I guess when you talked about your core fee income you did include gains on assets sales of leased equipment in there and that was what was up.
The core fee income was $19 million.
I think that's the lowest number you've had pretty much since you've come out of bankruptcy.
So the question really was was there something in there that is one-time or is that kind of the new run rate? And I've got another one.
Yes so I would say that in the fee revenue yes we always have little adjustments on a quarterly basis based on again some of this is a little bit transactional-oriented.
But in general I wouldn't say that I would use any particular quarter right now as a run rate.
I think as we move into 2013 there's still a lot of items that aren't going to get to our core run rate.
So I think it's an approximation.
And we're going to continue to dig into find ways to improve both the fee and other revenue fee income and other revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the margin improvement you talked about the 40 basis points.
Could you talk about what causes that? Is some of that just a denominator effect? How much of it kind of will make its way into the dollars of net interest income? Well we're -- I think on the funding cost side I mean that's just the lower interest expense.
So I mean the components of that is as John mentioned we paid down the debt.
Some of that was issuing some new unsecured debt that you are aware of right? And then part of that was some of the securitizations that we did in the quarter and then some was from cash.
So the components of the delta between the 7% and each of those respective costs kind of drive most of the 40.
And so on the yield side we've been pretty steady.
So yield came down a little bit.
If you remember the chart we used out there in regards to showing our portfolio yields versus cost of funds so the portfolio yield came down a little bit because of the interest recoveries and the yield-related fees but the funding cost is going down faster than -- and we're maintaining the yields right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Henry Coffey Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of building off of that.
As you look at your liability mix now obviously the 7% notes are gone.
So there's no big bucket of debt to be removed but what's the next logical step that you're continuing to sort of refine that mix? More deposit growth pay down some of the original post 7% notes maybe you can give us a sense of what the next logical steps there are? Okay Henry.
I thought you're going to list them all off for me.
So I kind of appreciate that but definitely #1 is on deposits.
So I think the -- as you see we continue to grow the deposit mix and the business that we're putting in for the bank that is going to be a huge driver over the next couple quarters going into 2013.
We still have from the debt we issued all those have make-holds and so those are very expensive to kind of call back.
So I think the next kind of maturity we have is in early 2014 where we had the 3% note that we had issued out there.
So that is something that during 2013 we will either have to issue in the capital markets or build cash in order to potentially redeem that.
So that's an open item.
And we continue to find ways to finance our international businesses.
So I think one of the pieces that you have seen we did the Canadian financing at very attractive rates.
We have also put the China facility in place.
So we have other opportunities in our international Vendor business to continue to drive down our cost of funds but it won't be anywhere near the kind of trajectory that we've experienced for the last 2.5 years.
But there's still room to drive down our cost of funds.
Research Division</strong> The $15 million per quarter cost reduction is that simply saying every quarter we'll get a sense of where our loan volumes are going? And if they pick up we don't need to cut but if they don't we do? Or is that just sort of more of a systematic phase out of staffing and other costs? Yes I think that we need to do -- we need both as I mentioned.
So we need both the run rate cost reduction as well as the asset growth.
And in the numbers that we have we do have some of the bank funding related costs that will increase through that so we need to offset that in order to get to the targets that we've set out.
Research Division</strong> So when do you think you can start really hitting those targets or are you sort of not putting numbers on that? Yes I would say I would focus more probably kind of as we get into 2013.
I don't think you're going to see in the fourth quarter near term...
Research Division</strong> But I mean it could be -- you could start hitting your overhead targets as early as next year is what you're suggesting? We will get the ratio down from where it currently is Henry.
Remember we have 2 -- our target's 200 to 225 we're well north of that.
So I think our goal would be over the next 12 to 24 months to get down to that kind of target ratio that we have.
Our next question comes from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Yes kind of a longer-term more strategic question.
And I'm curious how does -- in the long run how does the aircraft leasing business fit in a bank holding company? As I understand it you need to hold capital against the whole order book even though it's not generating revenues currently.
And I guess at a time when you have excess capital and you're constrained from doing buybacks that doesn't hurt you too much.
But can that business be profitable at your targeted future capital levels under the tent of a bank holding company? Yes so it's a great question.
And the simple answer is yes it can.
So when we analyze new aircraft purchases or when we analyze the business we allocate capital to it including the capital required to hold the order book.
And frankly that business gets mid-teens returns on its allocated capital even taking into account the forward order book.
So it is quite an attractive business.
The fact it's inside of the bank holding company is not a particular detriment to it.
And it's interesting that of the portfolios that have sold recently the most aggressive bidders are in fact banks.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And is there any way to bring any of those earnings onshore? It's something that we'll consider but most of -- as we've talked about most of the portfolio of customers we have are actually outside the U.S.
So I think part of the strategy of who is going to come "onshore" would be if we increase our leasing proportion in the U.S.
Yes the other thing we are doing though is we are growing the loan book.
And that loan book is going primarily in the bank and that loan book is in the U.S.
And so we are growing the loan side of the business and that will generate U.S.
income.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there a story to the non-accrual that was in the -- mentioned in the release? No.
It's just one loan.
It's secured by aircraft and it's something we'll work through.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Scott can you give a little bit more color on the comment that you made about near-term profitability being masked as the business grows.
Are you referring to reserve building as you continue to see the kind of growth you're seeing in the commercial businesses? Yes it's mainly -- it was only specific to the Corporate Finance business.
So on the Corporate Finance business as we've laid out our targets should be on the steady-state the expected losses should be about 100 basis points.
And our reserving is well north of 100 basis points.
So on a reported basis it's probably better to look at them kind of more on a PP&amp;R [ph] basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then separately John can you just comment broadly on whether you've received any kind of indications of interest or whether there's been any kind of dialogue with anyone who might be a potential buyer? No.
You know perfectly well we wouldn't be able to do that.
Our next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just had a few questions.
Scott you talked about exploring some ways to improve fee income.
Can you talk about some specifics there? Are there any areas in particular you're targeting or is it a little too early to talk about those? I think in general if you look at our existing businesses today in the Corporate Finance area I think we've done a really good job of continuing to increase our lead agency roles and positions.
So I think we need to -- as we rebuild the franchise I think those are things that over time could lead to additional fee income.
M&amp;A activity has been pretty low.
And so if that picks up a little bit that does give us some opportunities to get some advisory fees around that business.
And also over time as we've talked about the market's still pretty much a clubby kind of situation.
So we think that over time syndications -- syndication fee income will come through to the business but again those are kind of really tied back to some of the macro challenges that we talked about.
On the Vendor side we continue to look at end of term residual upside as well as some servicing fee opportunities.
And on the trade business it's really -- as we find opportunities around additional volume I think the business has done pretty well at maintaining kind of the fee income line in the current environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I mean it sounds like most of the stuff who were -- consists of things you had discussed earlier and now you're just putting more emphasis on them really as opposed to any completely new areas that you're thinking of getting into really.
Yes I think in the existing portfolio that's kind of how we can do it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your Corporate Finance business can you just remind me I mean there's been talk of this like dividend recap activity picking up.
Do you participate in dividend recaps at all or do you see that as just being too frothy of markets you don't want to get into those? It's very selective.
We're very disciplined around that and we have certain criteria that would allow us to participate and if those criteria aren't met we don't participate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of financing for the aircraft leasing business there was I guess a discussion about a year or so ago about the EXIM ECA moving to more of a market-driven funding structure as opposed to more of a subsidized structure that existed previously.
So with that sort of change how does that affect you from in terms of funding that portfolio to the extent you already have funding through the EXIM or ECA? Yes so that would only be on -- Sameer that would be on new fundings that you would do with those agencies so would impact the historical.
So really what it comes down to is looking at that all-in cost relative to other sources of funding that we could do for the business and trying to balance off the pros and cons of that.
So I think what it does is given what we've been able to achieve on the funding side it gives us more options to fund that business going forward.
Research Division</strong> So I mean should we necessarily think of it as maybe the margins being negatively affected going forward relative to your existing funding given that in the newer structures they would be more market driven.
So presumably less leverage in those deals maybe higher funding costs or marginally you don't think it's going to make that much of a difference? I don't think given the amount of funding we do given the size of the portfolio I don't think Sameer it'd be enough to change the overall portfolio dynamics so I would say no.
I think that's particularly true given where we now fund.
We now fund competitive to them anyway and so no I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question on the income taxes that number can move around.
We've been modeling it in dollar terms and you've talked about that several times in the past.
But looking at where you came in at this quarter and then the reason for the lower dollar number relative to what you were looking for what should we model Scott in terms of a run rate for taxes? I won't go into 2013 but at least for the fourth quarter which wasn't in the press release but will come out in the Q.
But we did have a sizable amount of discrete items in the quarter that were north of $15 million.
So I think somewhere around the second quarter is probably more indicative of the dollar amounts than I would say the third quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Hochstim Buckingham Research.
I wonder if you can just clarify a couple of things.
Could you give us an idea of how much Commercial Real Estate and Equipment Finance volume there was this quarter or how it's been trending in the last 2 quarters maybe? We don't normally break it out but I would say on the real estate side we're probably doing a little bit about $100 million or so in the quarter.
We said there's a strong pipeline for both the Equipment Finance business as well as the Real Estate.
Equipment Finance would be lower than that as we're kind of building out that business but we're pretty happy with the success we've had.
And we think that will kind of bleed into 2013.
Okay and rates on those relative to the rest of the Corporate Finance originations how do they compare? Yes I think the Equipment Finance items would be kind of on the kind of higher end kind of below kind of a cash flow side but much above the asset based.
And on the real estate side kind of probably a little bit kind of in the 3% to 4% range depending on the transaction.
Okay.
And then can you give us an update on the prospect for finding some attractive portfolio sales from -- talk about European banks who you thought might be dumping assets and haven't? Is there anything in the market that gives some optimism that you might be able to find some attractive...
Well we keep looking.
So I mean there's nothing that we haven't seen and looked at.
I think a lot of -- at least the European I was there a couple weeks ago I think in the European side whatever's being sold is kind of sold through most of the kind of the trading desks.
And so if the bids hit I think the trades happen.
There hasn't been a lot of portfolio transactions so I think it's more of a individual kind of transaction by transaction side.
So we -- if we see those in the U.S.
we'll pick them up.
But from an overall aggregation point of view we haven't seen that coming through yet.
Yes the European banks in particular the yields on those portfolios tend to be very low.
And so if we bid them we bid them at discounts to par.
And at least so far the European banks have been reluctant to sell things below par.
I guess it doesn't help to build capital that way? Correct.
And then could you clarify on -- I think you said you sold some student loans in the quarter? No we sold them earlier in the year so we sold back in April.
I was just kind of explaining with regards to the bank liquidity but no...
Okay.
I was looking at the balance sheet.
Didn't look like you did but -- and then just in thinking about provisioning and the loss reserves that you've had [Audio Gap] the loss reserves start to increase I think.
Well as you know on the reserving side it's a methodology process that takes into consideration mix of business trends and what assets.
So as I mentioned a little bit of the reduction in the quarter we still provide for new originations but we had some legacy assets as running off that had higher reserve levels than the new originations that we're putting on.
And so I would say that we  it's kind of hard to forecast that one but I feel good that we are very -- in our reserve process that we are very solid on that perspective.
Okay so it reasonable to think we could still see lower and no provisions for it? Well I think the charge-offs that you saw -- gross charge-offs were up $1 million from the quarter so as we said those are at low levels.
And so I think from a perspective of we don't kind of -- we don't like to kind of forecast that losses are going to get worse.
I think we're comfortable with the portfolio we have but we will have certain accounts that do hit the charge-off quarter-to-quarter.
And on the reserving side I think as we kind of continue to have the runoff of the legacy portfolio at the parent company that pressure you'll start to see the new origination reserve build.
But you're going to have -- we're still in a little bit of that transition of some of the legacy assets and the new originations.
So we think some of that will kind of come through in 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Turner Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> John maybe you could talk a little bit around the competition and seeing a little bit more pressure there.
It's consistent with what we're hearing elsewhere but where is it and who is it coming from? Any color there would be helpful.
Sure and Scott -- I mean Scott can do this as well.
I mean we are seeing some incremental pricing pressure in the cash flow part of our Corporate Finance business and in our Trade business and in certain sectors of our Vendor business.
And it's coming from the bigger banks like Wells.
And it's coming from some of the regional banks.
As we've talked about in the macro environment I mean interest rates continue to be low people are looking for assets.
So I'd say in the Corporate Finance arena it's much more of kind of a dynamic of the high-yield market and kind of the kind of what I call more of the institutional or the investment-grade market and how the middle market lenders are in between those two and that kind of macro dynamic.
But as John mentioned on the Vendor again we've seen people in the past underprice those transactions.
And we need to stay disciplined because we understand the kind of the profitability model of those assets.
But I think those are very selective and very targeted for certain customers.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Then given that dynamic as we look into kind of the core finance margin going forward it was 2.60% let's say it should jump 40 basis points or so for the refinancings in the fourth quarter to get you at the low end of your long-term target.
Is it possible to maintain the 300 basis points going forward? Do you think as these new originations funnel on that there'll be more downward pressure or is that kind of still immaterial and you should be able to maintain that looking out? Yes I think it's a little bit early to kind of forecast that given kind of where we are right now a couple of weeks before the elections and kind of some of the current uncertainty.
I think as we get through the next quarter I think that's probably a more germane question that we might want to talk about in January.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one.
I think your risk-weighted assets jumped about $1.7 billion or so quarter-over-quarter.
Was that just timing or was there anything special in that? I think it's just what you're seeing as we grow the commercial portfolio the risk-weighted assets on those assets you're seeing the growth in that.
And as student loans continue to decrease those have a lower risk-weighted asset percentage than our commercial portfolio.
And our final question comes from the line of Mark DeVries Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up are you profitable in the U.S.
yet? We weren't profitable in the U.S.
in the third quarter but we continue to make progress.
Research Division</strong> Okay so any color on that and when you might start to realize some of your tax benefits there? Again I think the tax side of the world is kind of more of a kind of an annual basis than a quarterly.
So in our reports we kind of give you an estimate of kind of the taxable income.
So I would say that as we get through into the fourth quarter I'll have a much better visibility as we prepare the K to give you the component parts of that.
But we continue to make progress based on the debt refinancing in the U.S.
And there are no further questions.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to management.
We thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always if you have any follow-up questions please call either me Barbara or Bob in Investor Relations and we look forward to speaking to you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mike and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kenneth Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Welcome to CIT's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today is hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2011 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC last February.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insight and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
For more information on CIT including the slides that will be referenced in today's call please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'll now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you all for being on the call this morning.
We had strong fourth quarter results.
We earned $252 million pretax $207 million after tax or $1.03 a share.
We originated over $3 billion of funded volume in the quarter.
Our commercial assets grew and our total assets grew quarter-over-quarter a little bit.
The credit quality in our portfolio has been stable with charge-offs and provisioning at cyclical lows and our core expenses were essentially flat to third quarter.
Our headcount -- we brought our headcount down in the fourth quarter.
And Scott will talk more about our expense management program.
All 4 of our commercial businesses were solidly profitable.
Our Corporate Finance business generated funded volume of $1.5 billion.
This was the seventh consecutive quarter where our Corporate Finance business generated over $1 billion of new commitments.
In the fourth quarter just to give you an idea of the volume of transactions we were involved in 105 different transactions.
Our commercial real estate business and our equipment finance business both grew nicely.
And then as you saw we completed -- we've signed a portfolio purchase at the end of the year which fit nicely into our business.
It was $1.3 billion of commitments just under $800 million of funded volume.
Our transportation business continues to perform well.
Our commercial air business is over 99% utilized of our aircraft.
And on our commercial rail side we have over 98% utilization.
And as we've previously announced we really relaunched -- because we were in the maritime finance business before but we've relaunched the maritime finance business and intend to grow that business as well.
Our trade business their factoring volume was up 8% quarter-over-quarter.
And our vendor business the vendor volume was up 23% sequentially quarter-over-quarter.
So if you look at our 4 main businesses they were profitable they were growing and we are maintaining our credit discipline in those businesses.
CIT Bank ended up the year at over $12 billion of assets.
We generated over $4.5 billion of online deposits over the course of the year so we -- that's -- we ended up at the year a little over $4.5 billion of online deposits.
And in the fourth quarter we originated over 95% of our U.S.
lending and leasing volume in the bank.
For the full year 2012 if you exclude the debt repayment expenses CI turn -- CIT earned about $1 billion pretax.
We ended up the year with a strong balance sheet and strong liquidity position.
We ended the year with $7.6 billion of cash and short-term investments.
Our capital position we had 17% capital at the end of the year.
We had 16.2% Tier 1 capital at the end of the year.
We did file our capital plan with the Fed which Scott will talk briefly about later.
And when we look at our businesses and we look at where we see the economy going -- growing in the U.S.
the U.S.
economy is growing.
It's growing slowly but the outlook is more positive the sentiment seems better.
And I at least think that 2013 absent some new disaster in Washington will be a year of improvement.
We are well positioned for 2013.
We will focus on growing our volumes in both our new and our existing businesses.
We're looking to maintain our margins and maintain credit quality and we will continue to focus on managing our expenses.
With that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Key operating metrics continue to benefit from our focus on growth liability management and underwriting discipline.
Our commercial portfolio grew 8% from a year ago and 2% sequentially.
Economic margin is now within our target range reflecting the full benefit of our debt restructuring actions and a greater proportion of deposit funding.
And our credit metric remained stable in near-cyclical lows with reserves over 2% on our commercial assets.
As described in detail in our press release we did revise our prior-period financial statements and we understand this will cause many of you to have to update your models.
With the revision activities are now recorded in the period they occurred rather than when corrected.
We believe this will better facilitate the analysis of our financial trends going forward.
All my references will be to prior periods with the revised numbers.
We provided a financial data package on our website that has also been updated for these revisions and we also provided a presentation that highlights some of the key trends in our business.
Turning to the quarter.
As John mentioned we reported GAAP net income of $207 million which was negatively impacted by $83 million in additional net charges from the prepayment of secured debt primarily related to the sale and restructuring of the student loans that we disclosed in our 8-K.
Excluding these charges pretax earnings were $334 million up from $176 million in the third quarter.
The increase resulted from lower funding cost higher net FSA accretion benefits and higher non-spread revenue which included an increase in both our core activity as well as some event-driven items in the quarter.
Total financing and leasing assets were up slightly as the commercial portfolio grew $600 million during the quarter while the consumer portfolio declined reflecting the sale of the student loan assets.
Our commercial assets were up 2% from last quarter and grew in all of our lending and leasing segments.
Funded volumes which includes about $300 million of scheduled aircraft deliveries exceeded $3 billion with all segments reporting an increase from prior quarter.
This was partially offset by portfolio runoffs including higher prepayments in our Corporate Finance business and some asset sales primarily in the Transportation Finance business.
Economic margin which excludes FSA and accelerated OID was 363 basis points up significantly from the prior quarter.
The increase reflects the impact of our liability restructuring efforts that I mentioned before an increase in the deposit funding and a reduction in lower-yielding student loans.
You can see the trends on Page 5 of the presentation.
Interest recoveries and yield-related fees were elevated this quarter resulting from higher prepayments and our suspended depreciation was relatively flat at about 30 basis points.
Our core margin which excludes these items improved from 260 basis points last quarter to around 310 basis points this quarter.
In 2013 further funding cost improvements will primarily be driven by increasing the proportion of deposit funding.
Other income was $172 million up from the third quarter and you can see on Page 6 of the presentation.
Core non-spread revenue namely factoring commissions fee revenue and gain on equipment sales was $95 million up from $86 million reflecting higher gain on sale of leasing equipment.
In addition our fee revenue increased by about $4 million benefiting from a few transactions in Corporate Finance where we either underwrote and syndicated the deal or provided advisory services.
Other non-spread revenue was also up primarily driven by a few items.
First higher counterparty receivable accretion caused by the student loan restructuring.
Second we had a gain on sale of our student loan portfolio and also had some gains in our investment portfolio in Corporate Finance.
And finally we recognized the gain on the Dell European platform sale and we still expect to sell the remaining portfolio in held-for-sale during the second half of the year.
Excluding restructuring charges as John mentioned operating expenses were about $220 million down from last quarter due to a $10 million recovery of legal fees.
Outside of that operating expenses were essentially flat.
As you recall last quarter we announced a plan to reduce operating expenses by $15 million to $20 million per quarter.
Savings will come from many initiatives and will be phased in over the course of this year.
We've made some initial progress in the fourth quarter.
In December we reduced headcount by 80 changed some of our benefit plans and consolidated a few offices.
We also expect to see professional fees decline as we completed the buildout of our risk infrastructure and capital planning processes.
We plan to drive down overall cost while selectively investing in our growth initiatives and building our bank franchise.
We would anticipate additional restructuring charges in the first half of 2013 as we execute on our cost-savings initiatives.
And finally our fourth quarter income tax provision was about $44 million and was impacted by several discrete year-end items totaling around $12 million that increased the provision.
The key drivers of our tax provision is the geographic mix of earnings and you should continue to think about it on a dollar basis as you look at 2013.
Turning to the segment results.
We again included a table in the press release that adjusts for the accelerated FSA interest expense and other debt-related costs allocated to each segment.
This quarter we also adjusted for the impact of the accelerated OID.
My remarks will focus on the sequential trends excluding these items.
Corporate Finance adjusted pretax income was $106 million.
The increase from last quarter was primarily due to higher non-spread revenue as well as lower operating expenses driven by the recovery of legal fees I just mentioned.
In addition the prior quarter benefited from a reduction in the credit reserve.
Assets increased about 4% from third quarter and 16% from last year as our new initiatives in equipment finance and real estate finance added to our U.S.
middle market growth.
New business activity was strong this quarter across all our industry verticals as many of our clients pushed to close deals before year end.
Real estate finance also had a good quarter though their deal flow tends to be variable.
And despite higher volumes this quarter asset growth was impacted from deals refinancing where we chose not to participate or where the loans paid off.
The portfolio transition from the bank holding company continues with the bank comprising over 70% of the U.S.
commercial finance assets up from 65% last quarter.
On the competitive side ABL pricing has generally stabilized over the last few quarters but we do continue to see pockets of pressure on structure and pricing in cash flow lending.
Finally as John mentioned we did agree to buy $1.3 billion of loan commitments of which about $800 million was outstanding at year end.
These loans will be purchased by CIT Bank this quarter utilizing some of its excess cash.
The portfolio is right in our strike zone a combination of commercial real estate equipment financing and asset-based loans.
Also the yields are consistent with the market and we expect minimal additional expenses to service this portfolio.
Moving on to Trade Finance.
Adjusted pretax income grew to $22 million reflecting lower credit costs.
Our factoring volume was up 8% from the third quarter due to seasonality and essentially flat from the prior year.
Our factoring commissions were relatively unchanged.
Overall portfolio quality remains solid with a low level of charge-offs and declining non-accruals.
And we are seeing progress on new client relationships.
Vendor Finance's adjusted pretax income was about $48 million up from last quarter due to higher non-spread revenue primarily from the Dell platform gain as well as lower funding cost.
Portfolio assets grew about 4% sequentially and 8% from a year ago.
New business volume was seasonally strong this quarter and up over 17% for the year.
Our new business margins remained stable and this segment's quarterly results have been somewhat variable mainly due to the impact of our portfolio optimization actions over the past few years and the impact on non-spread revenue.
As I mentioned last quarter this business is growing assets faster than GDP in the markets in which we do business but not as fast as we had anticipated.
As such creating operating leverage on a regional basis will be a key focus of the management this year.
And lastly in Transportation Finance adjusted pretax income increased to $172 million reflecting lower funding and credit costs partially offset by lower non-spread revenue.
While we took delivery of more aircraft this quarter assets grew modestly as we actively managed our fleet and sold almost $300 million of air and rail equipment.
Our air utilization remains strong and we have placed almost all of our order book deliveries over the next 12 months.
Lease rates have generally stabilized utilization remains strong.
And we continue to see strong demand for new technologies and ordered 10 A350s to be delivered in 2019 and 2020.
On the rail business overall operating results remained strong.
Fleet utilization continues to be around 98%.
We have lease commitments on most all of our new cars that we have ordered since 2011 and most of these will be financed by CIT Bank.
And rental rates remain attractive and have generally stabilized at higher levels with a few areas of softness specifically coal cars.
On the funding side we advanced our deposit strategy while improving the economics and overall composition of our debt.
Deposits are now almost $10 billion representing over 30% of our total funding.
We refinanced the high-cost student loan securitization into our total return structure.
Our weighted average coupon has declined to about 3.2%.
And we were glad to see 2 rating agencies acknowledge our progress with upgrades from both Moody's and DBRS bringing us closer to our investment grade target.
John mentioned that our liquidity and capital metrics at the holding company and bank remained strong.
We also submitted our capital plan to our regulators with a modest capital request.
And finally overall our capital allocation strategy includes both growing our assets organically and through opportunistic portfolio purchases in all of our core businesses as well as returning capital to our shareholders.
So in summary we feel good about the progress we've made in 2012 and we're starting to see our improved operating performance reflected in our reported results.
Our franchises are performing well especially in this environment and our debt structure improvements enable our businesses to be more competitive.
As we enter into 2013 we continue to focus on improving our key metrics.
In the fourth quarter net finance margin is now within our target range on a core basis.
Key drivers going forward are our funding cost improvements asset mix and portfolio yield.
Credit metrics are near cycle lows and we would expect the provision expense to trend with new originations as well as changes in asset mix.
Our core non-spread revenue improvements will mostly come from increased agency and underwriting roles that lead to advisory and syndication opportunities.
And finally we recognize there's much more work to be done on improving our operating leverage.
That said earning assets are moving in the right direction and we have -- we're taking targeted actions to meet our cost reduction commitments.
So with that I'll turn the call back over to Mike.
And we're happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question we have comes from Brad Ball of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Scott could you reconcile for us the difference between the economic margin of 3.63% and what you're calling the core margin of 3.10%? What are the moving parts in there? And can you give us a sense as to what those moving parts look like in the next few quarters? Yes so Brad as you know so about 30 basis points is from the suspended depreciation and that's been pretty consistent.
And the delta is a combination of both interest recoveries and other yield-related fees.
So those happen -- as we have upfront committed fees if the loan pays off those fees are accelerated when that loan is refinanced or paid off.
And so those as we've talked about have been declining.
And due to the high refinancing in the fourth quarter they've kind of spiked back up again.
So I would expect the depreciation to kind of stay stable until the second half of the year at around that 30 basis points.
And then the interest recoveries and yield-related fees are going to be really dependent on activity in the marketplace.
So we've kind of thought those would be kind of getting down below 10 basis points but they kind of spiked up in the fourth quarter.
But those are the kind of the 2 variables that are outside of the core margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And given the increase in deposits and lower-cost funding and the mix on the asset side your expectation is that the core NIM stays in your targeted range which is 3% to 4%? Yes.
I think we'll see as we continue to kind of move -- make that transition that we'll continue to improve our cost of funds.
And then on the yield side if we can kind of keep their yields kind of in the range we are that would be a good thing.
So as long as the market pressures we can manage those we should see some improvement on the margin but not at the pace that it was in the past as we've mentioned before.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a follow-up for John.
John could you give us any update on the status of the written agreement if there is any update there and whether or not you view the written agreement as impairing your ability to either take acquisitions -- portfolio acquisitions or capital actions as per your capital plan submitted earlier this month? So we have no update on the written agreement.
The written agreement does not in any way prevent us from making portfolio acquisitions and we demonstrated that by the portfolio we bought at the end of the year.
And it is also really separate from the capital plans.
So we did submit as both of us said a capital plan and that capital plan includes a return -- a modest return of capital.
So we await a response on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you think the Fed could approve a return of capital even with the written agreement in place.
They absolutely could.
Next we have Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I noticed that the kind of the "normal" FSA accretion over the last 4 quarters has kind of bounced around kind of between let's say $60 million and $120 million.
Can you talk a little bit Scott maybe about what that normal amount is? I mean because that's included at -- right in the core net interest margin right? It -- no it's not in the core.
That's kind of the difference between -- economic margin strips out the FSA.
So as we kind of report you have the GAAP reported and then we strip that out.
So the FSA that's remaining right now if you look -- I mean you look in [ph] the chance to get in the tables but we're down to roughly about $2.6 billion on the operating lease portfolio.
And if you add up the remaining loan accretion and the FSA on the secured debt after we did the restructuring of the student loans they're about equal.
So I'd say that those 2 aren't going to -- much of it [ph] going to directly offset dollar for dollar every quarter but they'll be pretty close and then it will just be the amortization of the operating lease into depreciation.
And that's been running somewhere around $45 million to $50 million a quarter.
So I think they've -- that -- from that point of view I think going into 2013 John and I will probably not be talking too much about the FSA benefit.
We'll kind of focus on the reported results.
But you'll have the details on the back of the press release on what the net accretion was in the quarter.
Yes so...
As we go into 2013 we really will focus on GAAP financials.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And just as a -- kind of as a follow-up on a slightly different topic the portfolio that you bid on and the kind of the other ones presuming there are other things that you're in discussion on.
Can you talk a little bit about the level of competition for those and who -- against whom you're generally competing? How do you -- how does that -- how has that process been going? I think competition is very strong.
So as you know most institutions are looking for assets.
So we've looked at a lot as we've said in the past and we've been very disciplined.
This one kind of met our return hurdles and we were also able to close quickly which we thought was a big competitive advantage relative to our peer group.
Next we have Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> In terms of your capital plan are -- which clock are you on? Are you on a CCAR clock where you are going to announce when all the other banks announce? Or are you on a different clock in terms of when we can expect to hear sort of final details? Well we're definitely on a different clock.
We don't know exactly what that clock is Henry.
But because we are not a CCAR bank and we're not kind of bound by those items it's not going to be something that we have to disclose the results and those type of things.
So ours is really more -- we provide it to the local team and to the New York Fed and now I think over the next couple of months we'll have discussions with them.
But we won't -- we don't have a set time.
There's not a definitive time that unlike -- or like the CCAR banks.
Research Division</strong> You've talked about continuing to work on improving funding cost.
Obviously in addition to moving assets into the bank can you give us a sense of what are you -- what some of your other opportunities look like? Yes we've continued to just -- we're continuing to look at some of our international platforms if there's ways to put in secured financing that's at attractive rates.
I know it seems a long time out but we have a maturity of $1.3 billion that's in March of 2014.
And so we will have to start building cashed [ph] based on how we do our liquidity testing and our hope would be to redeem a majority of that with free cash flow and some unsecured debt.
So those items are kind of the -- probably the key thing outside of the kind of the deposit funding.
Next we have a question from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about -- just hypothetically let's assume we go down the path where we get -- we see a re-acceleration in GDP growth in the second half of 2013 and into 2014.
Can you share how you think about the growth in each of the segments in that kind of scenario? I'm just kind of trying to get a sense for what asset growth is like in each of those segments relative to GDP growth.
Is there any kind of a multiplier factor or anything? Any perspective you could give there that would be helpful.
So the businesses are somewhat different so we should -- we'll -- we can answer that business by business.
And then I assume you're talking specifically about the U.S.
GDP growth because in the case of our vendor business about half of our business is outside the U.S.
So the U.S.
vendor business typically can grow at a multiple of GDP.
So we would expect our U.S.
vendor business to be able to grow.
If the U.S.
GDP picks up that will help that business grow and we can grow at a multiple of GDP.
That should also be true for our Corporate Finance business because as GDP grows and as confident gets better there will be more M&amp;A activity and more buyouts and so there should be more activity in the Corporate Finance business as well.
Our trade business is really much more sensitive to the activity level at -- among the retailers.
And so there it will depend on more specifically what's happening to retail sales and activity in the retail sector.
And then on transportation you really have to separate between air and rail.
So our rail business is primarily U.S.
business.
It's also sensitive to GDP growth.
Although when we're already at 98% utilization there's not too much more upside in that business even if GDP picks up but you would expect that increase in GDP will help on the rates we get as cars come off lease.
And then the air business is really a global business.
It's really not particularly tied to U.S.
GDP growth.
It's really tied much more to global air traffic and -- which is really more sensitive to the movement of a greater percentage of the world's population into the kind of middle class and so they can fly.
So we see a lot of the growth in our air business being driven by the emerging-market-type countries.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful color.
And then finally as a follow-up on a different topic.
When we look at the fact that you guys obtained this quarter $1.5 billion of 3-year money at 1.1% via the online deposit channel can you just talk a little bit about first the sustainability of that deposit growth as we look forward? And then secondly does the success that you're having here give you any kind of a basis with regulators or just continuing to do what you're doing without having to incur the cost of acquiring and maintaining a brick-and-mortar infrastructure? We've seen examples of other businesses that have successfully grown online deposits and they're not looking to add any physical branches.
So any commentary you could give on that.
Well I would just say on the first part of the question yes we have been successful and we continue to be successful on our online deposit gathering.
We've continued to diversify our product offerings.
So we have a few more products we're going to launch in 2013.
So our whole focus is how do we have a great customer experience for those people that come to CIT Bank and providing the suite of products.
And I think that continues to go well and we continue to originate as you kind of pointed out over the course of 2013.
So I think that will continue.
With respect to the question around kind of branch deposits and does that kind of defer or kind of change our strategy I think we -- as we said before I think having a diversified funding mix and having ample ways to raise deposits over time is that we think that there's some merit to the branch network.
So we will continue to look at that and evaluate that but I don't think it's going to be just because you can diversify -- or you can grow online that those are mutually exclusive.
Let me just add one thing on the online deposits.
So we are now starting to see the online deposits that we put on a year ago mature.
And we're having very very good results in terms of having those online deposits as they mature renew.
And we're also having very good results at getting additional money from those customers who are renewing their online deposits.
So the stickiness of those deposits has been very good.
Next we have Chris Brendler of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the new business volume side particularly in the Corporate Finance business there's pretty pronounced slowdown in activity in the third quarter.
It sounds like a lot of that activity got done in the fourth quarter.
But if you combine those 2 quarters and let's just assume it's more of a timing difference how does the pipeline look today? Are we still seeing improving loan demand? Do you feel good about the outlook for 2013 and continue to grow volumes? And could you just comment on the competitive conditions in Corporate Finance as well? Look Chris I -- it's -- I think there was a lot of as we mentioned kind of activity in December given some of the uncertainties that were going on with some of the discussions.
And my sense would be is -- given that high volume January has been kind of a little bit slower.
And we don't know right now is that just because there was so much activity in the flurry to get deals done in December or is that a trend.
So I would say that it kind of goes back to I think the question around what the GDP growth and what's the outlook.
And John mentioned that there seems to be a lot of discussion around that that might be more positive.
That would be helpful for us.
But I think the competitive dynamics are increasing as we've kind of talked about.
There's the continued focus on loan growth in our competitors as well as ourselves but we are being very very disciplined.
And so we're going to keep that discipline.
And if things kind of hit [ph] into lows [ph] we'll have to kind of make sure that we're being prudent on our asset growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Along those lines Scott you've talked in the past about spreads on new business and I think 400 basis points has been a number I've heard in the past.
I don't think we're maintaining those levels but are we still north of 300 on most of your new business in Corporate Finance? Yes I think the -- there's a big difference between the asset-based lending asset-backed lending and kind of cash flow.
So cash flow still is probably in the 500 range plus or minus depending on the transactions.
Our ABL is probably more in the north of the 300.
And then some of the ABL market more of the retail flow stuff is probably in the 200 range.
So at least for our core markets we feel the risk return is still attractive but we are definitely monitoring what's happening with respect to kind of pricing and structures in the marketplace.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On a separate topic on taxes.
Can you discuss if you were profitable in the U.S.
this quarter and whether or not you expect to maintain that profitability in the U.S.
given the improvement in the NIM and all the other progress you've made in -- on expenses and credit? Just specifically on the NOL and what we can see going forward there.
Yes.
So I'd say that Chris I just -- I have need to differentiate.
So I think from a book basis we turned profitable in the U.S.
because of the restructuring efforts.
But you have to remember on our tax books because of the large amount of operating leases we do have that that depreciation offsets that on our tax books.
So we were not tax profitable in the fourth quarter.
And from an NOL utilization point of view it really is taxable income which is not kind of a simple calculation but that's really something that we'll continue to talk about and provide guidance as we work through our kind of tax -- our tax books versus our accounting books.
The next question we have comes from Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Scott can you talk about how much liquidity you have at this point to acquire portfolios and other than cash on hand how you'd look to fund any new deals? Well they were bank eligible.
We had $3.4 billion at the end of the year.
Some of that will be used to fund the Flagstar portfolio.
We have committed liquidity in the bank that also could be there.
And we could ramp up our deposit gathering.
So we've been trying to monitor our deposit gathering alongside with the asset growth.
So I think from a bank point view I don't see kind of the size of the deals we're looking at that we would have a problem funding those.
From a perspective at the parent company we have about $2.5 billion at the end of the year and we also have about $1.9 billion available on our revolver.
So I think we have capacity if we wanted to do something on an international basis or in kind of the aircraft business.
So I think we have ample liquidity for the size of the transactions that we would be looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I understand second question that we're near cyclical lows for credit costs but you had another pretty significant Q-over-Q drop in non-accruals.
And it appears if anything your reserves got more conservative relative to these non-accruals.
And so my question is how much longer could we expect little to no provision? And what ultimately do you think is going to start pushing credit costs back up to more normal levels? That's a good question.
We kind of talk about it a lot.
So I would say that the provision that we have today is not sustainable.
So the charge-offs you see kind of the net charge-offs are kind of been -- kind of consistent for the last couple of quarters.
And the provision really it's a turn of the portfolio.
So we have some of the legacy accounts that had kind of some larger reserve balances as those refinanced or paid off.
And we are still provisioning for new business but the 2 -- new business is being provisioned at a better expected loss than the legacy portfolio.
So we expect that transition in -- kind of in the first half of 2013 but it's very hard to predict what that is.
But I would just say that negative or 0 provision is not sustainable.
And probably we'll get closer to kind of a normal charge-off and some provision rate in the portfolio.
Next we have Ken Bruce of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First let me congratulate you on turning the quarter.
Nice to see a positive quarter.
I hope that's a trend we can get used to.
My first question is first just following on the competition comments made earlier.
Can you give us a sense as -- if things continue to grind higher should we expect possibly a rotation towards more syndication activities where you can in effect use these relationships to generate fee income if it's not attractive from a balance sheet standpoint? Yes that's an alternative.
I think it really comes down to the -- it depends on what role you are and kind of what the expectation for some type of hold position with the credit.
But the syndication market can be used for that Ken.
But I think if the pricing is not right for us I'm not so sure that that would be the approach that we would go down.
Research Division</strong> So the alternative would just be to slow growth altogether in that case? Correct.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just if I look back to the third quarter you had at that time wanted to see what the stress-based scenarios were going to look like before you talked about possibly what the -- what's the thoughts around capital would be.
Given that information has come out are there any updated thoughts as to what the required capital is in your business? Or any thoughts around that please? No I think on the -- I mean the normal kind of capital that we would think -- our economic capital as we've said before is around 12%.
The -- kind of the risk-based capital was around 13%.
So we'd say they're kind of on par.
So that's kind of the normal operating capital that we'd want.
And the stress testing in scenarios is what's the impact on that kind of normal capital in the event of a shock? And we stress that on many different vehicles.
And we think that the capital level -- that normal capital level is still consistent with what we need as a company.
The next question we have comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question about that portfolio that you acquired from Flagstar.
And I was wondering if you could give us some sense for the portfolio in terms of its -- I know John you had said market yield.
I was hearing somewhere south 5% on that portfolio.
So if you could just maybe help narrow down what the yield on that is that would be helpful.
And I think it's also a low credit loss portfolio.
So as we think about that and additional acquisitions going forward is the idea basically that the marginal cost of bringing those portfolios online it's pretty low so really because the NIM falling down to the bottom line? So just to be helpful because I know you bought the portfolio I think a little north of 90 -- $0.90 on the dollar.
So how do you -- how should we think about the framing of the economics of acquisitions? Is it -- do you think your marginal cost is being close to 0 and some of the other metrics? That would be helpful.
Yes Sameer I'd say that in the portfolio -- I'm not going to give you an exact yield on the portfolio but I think it -- as I mentioned it was kind of -- the deals that we looked at we bought a combination of a portfolio of asset-based loans equipment finance and commercial real estate to -- so it kind of talk about a kind of a blended yield.
But the way we looked at it is we were in some of these deals already so we kind of knew the credits well.
Number two is that they -- these were market transactions and we looked at the risk-adjusted margin on the transaction.
We had cash in the bank so we had the liquidity there in the bank.
And I think the last piece is that we're taking these on without any incremental cost.
So when you kind of look at the kind of the portfolio economics that was a good transaction with credits that we think are strong and help build out our portfolio.
Yes Sameer the -- I think the way to think about it is these were all -- these were ABL deals and so they reflect ABL yields as opposed to cash flow yields.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's -- yes that kind of explains why I think the yield was maybe a little bit on the lower side.
But I -- I mean I'm trying to just -- because I know in the past John you've talked about acquisitions and basically said "Okay well you look at the pricing of some of these deals " and it seemed like on new business also you were pricing at market rates.
Because my question was you had so much excess capital and liquidity rather than having that just sitting on your balance sheet it's better to deploy it even if it's kind of a lower-returning business which is better than earning next to nothing on the cash and capital.
So it should be again assumed that this is kind of an acquisition and future ones will generate sort of like a -- what are your return assets or like expectations on those deposit transactions like north of 1%? Or are you willing to accept less just because it's better than the alternative of just sitting on cash? Yes so this transaction and the way we look at all of the portfolios that we look at is we want the same types of returns on capital for purchases as we get in our new originations.
So this portfolio generated returns that were comparable to the returns we get on our generic originations in our core businesses.
So we did not -- we'd not price this portfolio kind of on a marginal basis as an alternative to cash and we do not intend to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful color.
And just one quick one additional question on the 787s.
I don't believe you have any in your fleet currently but I do think you have some in your order book.
As we think about those aircraft and some of the issues they've been having are there any concessions you can get from the manufacturer? Or how are you thinking about that order book at this point in time? Well Sameer we have 10 on order.
Our first delivery is -- we have 2 being delivered -- or scheduled to be delivered in 2015.
So I think -- from our perspective I think it's a little premature to kind of sort that out.
But the viewpoint is that it's modest in our overall order book and we hope that these issues kind of get resolved because it's something -- the aircraft itself is something that is big in the industry.
Yes.
And actually -- and those 2 actually are leased.
Yes we have them...
Those are committed already...
But it's 2015 so I think that's several years off.
And next we have David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
I wonder can you just tell us how much of a contribution the new -- relatively new commercial real estate and equipment finance units are making to new business volume in the fourth quarter and maybe compared to the third quarter? As I mentioned the commercial real estate had a pretty good quarter in the fourth quarter as we did some deals.
And equipment financing is building but we don't have specific asset numbers we've given out or volume numbers.
But it's commensurate with helping us grow the commercial portfolio by 4%.
Okay.
And then can you just talk about the sequential decline in the average yield on loans that you show on the average balance table? Is that -- that 40 basis point sequentially is there anything kind of unusual in that? Is -- I mean is that a trend or is that just...
That table that's in there has FSA accretion and everything else so I would kind of focus more on our kind of core economic margins.
So our yields relative to the third quarter on the portfolio have been flat.
And really the majority of the improvement was driven by the funding costing -- funding cost side.
So yes those tables are not -- I wouldn't say apples to apples.
I guess there wasn't that much of a change in the asset accretion though between Q3 and Q4 was there? I guess some of it would show differently in the loans I guess the loan lines...
Correct.
Okay.
And then -- I guess maybe it depends since I've asked most of my [ph] question could you give us again your thoughts on other income and kind of all the -- there were a number of unusual what looked like kind of unusual gains this quarter.
It sounds like some of those are going to recur.
You might have -- I mean could you have more recoveries from prior charge-offs? I mean what should we expect? Because most of it was quite a bit higher than you had in that last few quarters.
David it's a good question.
So let me kind of take you through -- so as we kind of broke out in the slides that's out there the core is kind of what we focused on.
And so we've have been -- had some improvement third quarter to fourth quarter.
Part of that as I said was a few transactions in Corporate Finance.
So I think that's one of our key focuses.
If you look at the gain on loan portfolios that includes the student loan gain which was about $16 million.
So on that one -- outside of that we don't plan on selling any additional student loans.
So I would say that that's not going to repeat as you go into 2013.
Recoveries are kind of episodic.
So we will have some but I don't think -- as we get further away from kind of the emergence period we're 3 years past that I think that level will come down.
We might get a recovery or 2 based on that but I think that number will continue to go down.
The counterparty receivable accretion really kind of was driven by the restructuring of student loans that we disclosed.
And so that one is really just based on the -- I'd kind of go back to a kind of normal level which is going to be much lower on the $5 million $10 million range maybe.
On the investment sales we had some -- we have -- in the Corporate Finance business we have some investments in LPs and sponsored-related activity.
And we had some significant gains in the fourth quarter on those.
So I don't think those are going to be at that level going forward but -- as we're going to have some of those.
And lastly is -- in other revenue is really where the Dell platform gain was.
So in general our expectation is the core has kind of been fairly consistent as a percent of our portfolio.
And the other items -- as you said in the fourth quarter we had a lot of kind of transactional events that most -- the ones I least I had noted aren't going to repeat.
Dell platform gain is not going to repeat.
The SLX gain is not going to repeat.
The accretion is not going to accrete.
So I think that kind of gets you back down to a much smaller "all other" as we go into 2013.
The next question we have comes from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to unpack the NIM question a little bit by focusing on the liability side and the interest cost make sure we have that straight.
So if I start with your interest expense in $366 million and back out the $148.6 million FSA and then the $52.6 million for the swap I get sort of core interest expense of $271 million something like that.
Is that about right? Well where I'm going with this is roughly -- what I get is a cost of long-term debt all in for you a little bit over 4%.
Is...
Well as we mentioned our kind of -- our weighted coupon is 3.2% Mike (sic) [Chris].
We've -- I put that in my remarks so...
Research Division</strong> 3.2% on the debt.
Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and -- but modeling it going forward your -- theoretically since all your debt has now been refinanced we should probably assume the debt no longer goes down but that -- and so that -- we just roll that forward but the incremental loan volume will be primarily funded at deposit cost.
That...
Correct.
So at the bank holding company -- until our first maturity in 2014 that's kind of fixed.
And so it's really deposit cost and also kind of secured structures we put in place for both the vendor business internationally.
And we also might have some ECA-backed financing for some of our aircraft.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just since you brought it up can you talk a little bit about the maritime finance business? I mean how many -- this -- are the economics of that similar to let's say the rail car business? And what kind of a size portfolio could that become over 1 year or 2? And how do you see that opportunity? Well so we're just restarting it.
So it's very new.
We just hired the person who's running it.
So it's just beginning.
But at least right now primarily because of the market dynamics of a lot of the former lenders into this space pulling back much like the commercial real estate business where we had a lot of foreign lenders pull back as well as a lot of the U.S.
lenders we just see tremendous opportunities where we can get very attractive rates on highly secured loans because there's not a lot of competition right now.
And so we are looking at quite a number of interesting opportunities but it's still early.
So we're really just starting.
Next we have Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just looking at your risk-weighted assets and the change it looks it was up 6% quarter-over-quarter.
And I know when you place an aircraft order or for an unused commitment that drops into the risk weighting but how do we think about going forward sort of that relationship versus portfolio growth and risk-weighted assets? Yes I mean Mike I think the other one is for regulatory purposes we also did have to put up a regularly capital for the Flagstar commitment that we had.
So even -- it wasn't on our books it was a commitment that we -- a signed commitment.
So we did put up capital on that transaction.
So those 2 things were kind of what -- kind of made it spike between third quarter and fourth quarter outside of normal asset growth.
So I think going forward now that we have kind of pruned out the student loans were -- which were at a lower risk-weighted assets I think the growth in that is going to be our commercial portfolio.
And then any kind of commitments we'll make for aircraft or rail cars for orders would be probably the other driver.
So we'll get to a more what I would say steady-state kind of ratio between risk-weighted assets and unbooked assets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And just recapping a question earlier.
As far as your targeted capital I know it hasn't changed but just to make sure I'm accurate.
It's 12% Tier 1 was sort of your target or your targeted capital level? Well the commitment we have is a 13% total capital ratio and the 12% is our internal ECAP or economic capital analysis that kind of validates that we're -- it's kind of in the ballpark of what we think is our economic capital going forward.
From a perspective of Tier 1 capital when we get to that point where we can optimize our capital structure our hope would be that we substitute some other forms of capital outside of common equity in our capital structure over time.
But I think step 1 is to kind of get down closer to our 13% kind of ratio.
The next question we have comes from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> As we start to think about return on capital measures and try to model that out on our own -- I know when we looked at debt paydown it was really more a question of looking at cumulative debt at the holding company to get a feeling for what your opportunities were.
Is that going to be the driver? Or is it more likely that you will be allowed some sort of modest payout on whatever GAAP capital you generate in FY '13? Or maybe it's too complex to comment on but I was just kind of curious how we should start to model that.
Well so we've said to you that we filed a capital plan that requested a modest capital return.
That modest capital return is based upon both our existing capital levels which are obviously very high and as well as our earnings.
And so I think you -- rather than trying to do it as a percentage of anything I would do it more as terms of a dollar amount that matches up with modest.
Well it appears that we have no further questions at this time.
We will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Gentlemen? Okay.
Well we thank you all for joining this morning.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions please call me Barbara or Bob in the Investor Relations Department and we'd be happy to assist.
Thanks and have a great day.
Thank you all.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management for your time.
The conference is now concluded.
We thank you all for attending today's presentation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Maureen and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Maureen and good morning.
Welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2012 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'd like to now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining our call this morning.
For the first quarter of 2013 we earned $163 million after tax.
Our commercial assets grew 11% from a year ago.
This is the 6th consecutive quarterly growth in commercial assets.
Our net finance margin was 4.43% which is well within our long-term targets.
Our funding costs continue to decline.
Our deposits now represent about 1/3 of our total funding and virtually all of our newly originated U.S.
assets are being funded in CIT Bank.
Our pretax return on assets was in excess of 2% which is also within our targets.
The credit quality of our portfolio was stable with charge-offs and non-accruals at cyclical lows.
We continue to focus on our expenses which are above our long-term targets and Scott will cover some of the things we're doing in more detail.
But it's clear to us that we need to focus on our expenses and bring them down.
Our capital and our liquidity remained strong and our book value per share grew in the quarter.
Our Transportation results were strong.
Commercial aircraft were 100% utilized.
Our rail utilization was down slightly but still at 97%.
And our new Maritime Finance business is off to a good start.
We booked 3 loans and we see a good pipeline going forward.
Our Corporate Finance business we originated just under $1 billion of funded volume.
Our assets grew 11% from the prior quarter.
We've closed almost all of the Flagstar purchase which we announced at the end of 2012 and we continue to see positive momentum in Commercial Real Estate and Equipment Finance.
Our Trade Finance business our factoring volume was up 6% year-over-year.
And in our Vendor Finance business our assets were up 2% sequentially 9% year-over-year.
So our businesses are growing we're meeting our profitability targets and we are focused on our expenses.
Although we continue to have constructive dialogue with both the New York and the Washington Fed we have nothing new to report on that front.
And on U.S.
economy we see a continuation in the U.S.
economy of modest growth.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We report another quarter of GAAP earnings with a minimal net impact from FSA.
As such we have now transitioned our key metrics to a GAAP basis which should make our results easier to analyze and understand.
Here are some highlights from the quarter.
Our commercial portfolio grew 11% from a year ago and 4% sequentially.
Total average earning assets grew 2% from the fourth quarter.
Net finance margin was well over 4%.
Our credit metrics remained stable and near cycle lows and our pretax ROA was above 2%.
More specifically as John mentioned we reported net income of $163 million which included $18 million in debt charges related to the redemption of retail notes.
Excluding these charges pretax earnings were $199 million down from $334 million last quarter primarily due to lower non-spread revenue.
In addition this quarter's results included $6 million of restructuring charges compared to $12 million last quarter.
Total financing and leasing assets increased $1.2 billion this quarter reflecting growth in our commercial portfolio.
Funded volume was slightly under $2 billion included just 1 scheduled aircraft delivery of $36 million.
We also had about $850 million in portfolio purchases $700 million in Corporate Finance related to the Flagstar purchase and the remainder in Vendor Finance.
John mentioned we continue to fund essentially all of our U.S.
business in CIT Bank which now represents about 1/3 of our commercial lending and leasing assets.
Net finance margin was 443 basis points this quarter.
On a comparative basis it is still important to adjust for the impact of debt redemptions.
Therefore excluding these items adjusted net finance margin was 464 basis points which compares to 488 basis points last quarter and 297 basis points in the first quarter of last year.
Finance margin continues to benefit from suspended depreciation on assets held for sale and yield-related prepayment fees.
The sequential quarter decrease is largely explained by lower net FSA loan accretion as lower operating lease revenue was largely offset by lower funding costs.
You can see the trends in components on Page 5 and 6 of our presentation.
Other income was $70 million down from the fourth quarter which benefited significantly from some event-driven items we discussed last quarter.
As you can see on Page 7 of the presentation factoring commissions fee revenue and gain on equipment sales were about 90 basis points of AEA or $73 million.
This was down from $95 million in the fourth quarter mainly due to lower gain on sale of leasing equipment and lower fee revenue consistent with lending activity.
Excluding restructuring charges operating expenses were $229 million basically flat to last quarter after adjusting for the $10 million recovery of legal costs.
As I've previously mentioned we had some seasonal headwinds in our first quarter from compensation-related items such as FICA restart 401(k) match and new equity grants including the accelerated costs for retirement-eligible employees.
I would like to update you on the key actions we have taken towards our goal to reduce the quarterly run rate of expenses by $15 million to $20 million.
We have reduced headcount by a total of 140 since September of 2012 which is net of new hires in growth areas.
We have reduced our use of third-party resources and we modified several benefit plans at the end of last year.
Our focus during the first quarter was to address subscale operations and product lines.
We decided to exit 7 small platforms in Latin America and Asia.
We are also evaluating our European vendor platforms given the Dell portfolio sale expected to close later this year.
Addressing subscale operations will deliver additional cost savings later in the year and into 2014 as we work through the optimal strategy in each country.
And we continue to look at additional opportunities to address product lines that do not meet our profitability targets.
And finally our first quarter income tax provision was $15 million reflecting the mix of earnings as well as some discrete items that reduced the provision by about $5 million.
Our tax expense is mainly driven by international earnings but also includes state taxes.
There are a number of moving parts in our tax provision and this quarter's provision of $20 million before discrete items is at the lower end of our expectations for the balance of the year.
Therefore for 2013 it is still best to think about the dollar amount of quarterly tax expense rather than effective tax rate.
Now I'd like to turn to the segment results.
My remarks will continue to focus on sequential trends.
Given the impacts from accelerated debt charges over the last 2 quarters was minimal my remarks will now focus on pretax GAAP results.
However you can still find the impact of debt-related items in the non-GAAP tables in the press release.
Corporate Finance's pretax income was $25 million.
The decrease from last quarter was primarily due to lower non-spread revenues and higher operating expenses which were low last quarter due to the recovery of legal fees.
We also had a credit provision this quarter related to the portfolio growth and mix compared to a benefit from reserve releases last quarter.
Assets increased 11% from year end and 24% from a year ago reflecting growth in our core U.S.
middle market business Real Estate and Equipment Finance businesses and the Flagstar portfolio acquisition.
New business activity in the U.S.
middle market lending was down from a strong fourth quarter as many clients closed deals before year end.
We still see competition as refinancing and dividend recast was the main driver of cash flow lending activity for the quarter and banks and funds looking for assets.
This dynamic is putting pressure on structure and spread.
That said we are maintaining our pricing and underwriting discipline and are focusing on industries and businesses with low to moderate risk where we have expertise such as power health care specialty chemicals.
John mentioned in Real Estate Finance we continue to see good deal flow that meet our risk-adjusted returns.
Recently we've started to see some more liquidity coming back into that market.
Trade Finance pretax income was $9 million down from last quarter reflecting a higher credit provision as this quarter reflected a reserve build for asset growth.
Factoring volume was $6.4 billion down 7% from the fourth quarter which is a typical seasonal pattern but up 6% from the first quarter of last year.
Factoring commissions were down reflecting some pricing pressure and business mix.
We continue to diversify our client base resulting in more factoring volume in non-apparel industries.
And portfolio quality remained solid with a low level of charge-offs and non-accruals.
Vendor Finance's pretax income was $5 million down from last quarter primarily due to lower non-spread revenue and higher operating expenses.
Recall that last quarter we had a gain on a platform sale.
Portfolio assets grew 2% sequentially and 9% from a year ago.
New business volume was seasonally down this quarter and also reflect lower sales in the technology sector and we purchased $150 million portfolio of assets.
New business margins remained relatively stable on a risk-adjusted basis.
The road map to achieving our profit -- target profitability in this segment is to generate positive operating leverage by growing assets and reducing costs.
As I mentioned we have recently taken actions that will streamline the number of countries in which we operate.
The benefits of these actions will be realized later this year and into 2014.
While we will continue to have a presence in the major regions of the world we are focused on our scalable and profitable platforms.
Our actions should result in annual cost savings of up to $20 million with a minimal impact on assets and revenues.
And we continue to invest in areas of growth broadening our customer relationships diversifying industry segments and delivering best-in-class service.
Finally on Transportation Finance their pretax income was $143 million down sequentially reflecting higher depreciation as well as lower rental income.
Assets were flat sequentially and up 5% from a year ago.
This quarter our air delivery schedule was light with only 1 aircraft added while we sold 3 as part of our ongoing portfolio management.
John mentioned we had 100% utilization of our aircraft and we have placed all but 1 of our scheduled deliveries over the next 12 months.
There has been some compression in the renewal lease rates for certain aircraft driven mainly by supply-demand imbalances.
And while we have seen signs of stabilization this has contributed to lower rental income this quarter.
That said our team has done a very good job placing both the new deliveries as well as planes coming off lease.
In our Rail business fleet utilization remains solid at 97% but we are experiencing some weakness in demand for coal and steel cars.
We still see strong demand for new tank cars and increased our order book by another 1 500 cars that will be delivered in 2014 and '15.
We have lease commitments on all remaining deliveries and most of these will be originated by CIT Bank.
Rental rates remain attractive and have generally stabilized at higher levels with a few areas of softness.
Turning to funding.
We continue to access cost-efficient funding sources and advance towards our target funding mix.
We grew deposits by $1 billion which now represent about 1/3 of our funding and we introduced new IRA products in custodial accounts.
We established a $250 million asset-backed facility in Canada and our weighted average coupon has declined 5 basis points from last quarter to 3.13%.
So in summary our pretax ROA was within our target range.
We continue to focus on growing assets while maintaining underwriting and pricing discipline.
We have taken actions that will improve our operating leverage and our focus on executing our plans to address subscale operations and product lines.
Finally our franchises are strong and we are investing in growth areas.
With that I'll turn it back over to Maureen and we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is Brad Ball Evercore.
Research Division</strong> You had indicated that you had submitted a capital plan to the Fed in January requesting a moderate capital return.
I wonder if you could update us on the status of that request.
Brad this is Scott.
As John mentioned we don't have any further updates at this time.
But I think as we kind of mentioned given the priority of the CCAR process I think our expectations wouldn't have been that we'd have an answer at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Scott do you think there's a link between the written agreements and the response that they're likely to give to your capital plan? Brad it's Scott.
I think it's hard to answer that question.
I think we're -- we've submitted the plan.
We went through kind of the details that we've talked about in regards to making sure that plan was comprehensive but we have to leave it up to the Fed in regards to how they evaluate that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And no sense as to the timing of when we'll get information from the Fed? No.
As John mentioned I mean we're having dialogues and we don't have anything further to talk about today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just separately I wonder if you could comment on the net finance margin just the outlook where you think it's headed based on the trends in asset yields and funding costs.
Is there a lot of room still to bring down your funding costs further? As you saw as I mentioned in our funding costs the coupon went down about 5 basis points on an AEA basis on the chart that we've provided was down more than that.
I think as we've said the majority of the improvement we can make is really going to be on more funding of deposits.
We did -- we called some of these InterNotes that had pretty high coupons but they were small dollar amounts.
So we -- there's about $60 million of retail notes that had coupon of 6%.
So those are -- there are some small things but I don't think you should expect the funding costs to come down like they did in the past.
So the kind of the factors are we're going to see the FSA accretion for the reported numbers will come down as I mentioned.
And our hope is to try to offset some of the kind of the yield compression from the new kind of originations through both the funding costs as well as some operating expenses.
Research Division</strong> But there will be further yield compression? Based on what I -- based on kind of the current environment I think that's prudent to think so.
Our next question will be from Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> What led to the increase in the depreciation expense during the quarter up about 10% Q-over-Q given that average operating lease assets were only up about 1%? Hey Mark.
Yes I mean the -- if you look on a sequential trend there was a positive adjustment in the fourth quarter.
And so the depreciation numbers in the first quarter really is just a result of a little bit of maintenance cost increase that we saw.
So it's kind of a little bit more event-driven.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Should we then look at the 4Q as a more representative run rate? No.
I think 4Q was probably a little bit low.
So I would probably -- the first quarter is probably more representative of a run rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then as you look at managing your operating lease portfolio going forward how much growth are you targeting given the current economic backdrop? Well I would say when you say target we have an order book on the aircraft side.
So from a perspective of growing that it would have to be more in the sale leaseback spot market.
So we've opportunistically played in that market depending on what the pricing is.
So that would be -- outside of the order book that would be the main driver and we continue to do our portfolio management in regards to selling certain aircraft.
So I think that we're seeing modest growth.
So I would say that that's probably continues on the aircraft side.
On the railcar side it's been growing because of the new orders we placed starting back in 2011 and we continue to opportunistically buy rail cars.
So those are delivering faster than the order book.
So I think the rail book is growing faster than the aircraft book right now on an operating lease basis.
Our next question will be from Sameer Gokhale Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
Firstly in your factoring business the volume is being up a little over 6% year-over-year.
I think that the trend is -- has been better than we've seen in the year-over-year comps if you look at what happened in '12.
So is that just kind of an improvement in the overall environment? Or are you seeing -- are you signing on more customers in Q1? Can you just shed a little bit of light on that? Yes Sameer I think it's a combination of both.
I think the team has done a good job of signing new accounts and also some new accounts outside of the apparel sector which have different growth rates than the apparel side.
And then number two I think there's been a reduction in regards to the accounts that we had lost in the previous year [indiscernible] overall economy too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your growth and your volume in the Corporate Finance business I think -- I mean can you just talk -- I think you'd said about that there was some part of that growth came from Commercial Real Estate.
Can you just talk about how much of that growth was from CRE versus maybe other types of businesses within Corporate Finance? As we called out Sameer I mean I think the Real Estate as well as the Equipment Finance business are just again additional industry verticals that help us in the overall market.
So my sense would be those markets are a little bit more specialized and have more competitive advantage.
We're just back to the kind of the broad kind of corporate lending area.
But the overall growth in that business has been on a sequential basis we've been growing the assets in line with the market and above the market.
So we feel good about where we are in that business and we will be price disciplined in regards to some of the markets that we don't feel the risk return is there.
But the asset growth is kind of more reflective.
Some of the volume is as I mentioned more on the refinancing side dividend recaps versus kind of true new volume from M&amp;A or kind of buyouts.
Research Division</strong> But wait are you playing in the dividend recaps or not? Because my impression was that historically you have not done as much work in the dividend recap activity just because that tends to be riskier.
Maybe I just don't understand.
So have you been doing more of that or you're not participating in that market? I think in the first quarter as I mentioned that was kind of a lot of the activity so you're asking about the volume.
So we do -- again as I mentioned before Sameer we do that selectively but it's not one of our core focuses you're correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just the last question on the dollar taxes how should we model that going forward? Any sort of specific dollar amount we should be thinking of on a quarterly basis? It's hard for me Sameer to kind of give you an exact -- I think I mentioned that if you take out the discrete items which was a settlement that we had of $5 million and you're at $20 million and I think that based on the outlook for the year I would say that's on the low end of our expectation.
Our next question will be from Chris Brendler Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Scott can you just give us -- actually 2 areas of focus one would be on just the volumes this quarter.
Can you in any way sort of give us an estimate of how much of that is just what's happened to the economy and sort of the downshift we've seen in the first quarter or how much of it is competition picking up? I mean I'd like to look at these numbers and say yes you had a good fourth quarter.
Things have obviously slowed here a little bit in the first but it could pick up throughout the rest of the year.
Can you talk about sort of the pipeline right now and where you sit? Then I have a follow-up.
Okay Chris.
I mean my general sense we just talked with Sameer about the Corporate Finance area.
I think that first is fourth quarter I think it was clear that there was definitely activity that was pulled into the fourth quarter as we mentioned before.
But I think our general tone would be is that we continue to grow at a multiple of the economy growth.
So as long as the economy continues to grow we feel that we're positioned to kind of grow at or better than the market in the Corporate Finance area.
I think on the vendor side it's kind of growing in-line with kind of the industry and there was a little bit -- I think you might have seen first quarter there's a little bit of CapEx reduction or slowed.
So if that picks up that would also benefit us.
And then on the operating lease businesses as we mentioned before most of that is just delivery of new equipment that we've already ordered and then what's the balance of the assets that we sell.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any comments on the pipeline like are things picking up as you went through the quarter? My only hesitation on that one is every month kind of gives you a different signal.
So I would say that the pipeline is okay but I think that could always change since we're only a couple weeks into April.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
And the other question would be on the aircraft business.
Just wondering if you could give a little more color on the weakness what's driving some of the rental rate decline? I've previously viewed your order book as a valuable asset.
Those plane deliveries tended to be at higher rates and drive some of the franchise value of CIT.
Is this something that's mostly macro? Is it temporary? Just give a little more color on the aircraft business.
Yes so I just want to clarify Chris.
So the order book is not the driver of that.
So the order book as you said is a valuable asset and we place those usually up to 12 months in advance.
The main driver is really on some of the renewals of aircraft coming off lease and some of the pricing pressure that there has been in certain aircraft related to supply-demand imbalances.
So it's just coming through the -- you're kind of seeing that come through the P&amp;L.
But the order book is -- there's no issue with the order book.
Chris it's really in the kind of A320 and particularly A319 class of aircraft and it's just supply/demand.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what percentage of your book are those type of aircraft? Well I guess it's really on -- with respect to what's just coming off lease at the different times.
So we've experienced in 2012 and 2013 I would say some proportion of those were the aircraft that John mentioned.
I'll have the exact number...
Yes and it's not a huge percentage of the overall aircraft portfolio but it's just what's renewing in this current environment.
Our next question is from David Hochstim Buckingham Research.
I wonder could you just help us think about provisioning and reserves going forward? You have a very low level of charge-offs.
You still have a pretty conservative reserve coverage it looks like of probably the charge-offs and non-accruing loans.
And I just wondered can you maintain this level of reserves? Hey David.
Yes so I'd say on the reserve side we go through a kind of a rigorous analysis of the portfolio.
And so from a perspective of that analysis the coverage has come down over the -- on a commercial basis has come down but it still is north of 2%.
And my expectation would be as we continue to grow the commercial portfolio we will provide for that.
It's very hard depending on the mix to give you the exact impact that will be on the reserve.
But we are very happy with some of the performance on the non-accrual as well as the charge-offs.
But as we've said this is kind of at the cyclical lows and it's very hard to kind of give you any forecast of expectation for charge-offs going forward other than we're pretty low.
Yes I think the only other comment I'd make is that our long-term targets for provisioning are 50 to 75 basis points and we're obviously significantly below that.
That's reflective of the economic environment we're in right now where we're still at the relatively early stages of a recovery where you have very low interest rates and very high amounts of liquidity.
That's keeping those credit statistics very low and very attractive.
Over the economic cycle they almost certainly cannot stay where they are.
Right.
But I guess I'm just wondering so for this year it could be that that reserving for new loans is off -- provisioning for new loans is offset by kind of the credit benefit? It could be in regards to the growth of the portfolio.
Yes.
Okay.
And then could you just give us some color on the 3 maritime loans that you closed what are those like? How big are they? What kinds craft and pricing? We could but we're not going to.
Okay.
How about the size even? The sizes are consistent with the size of the loans that we make.
So they're not outsized in any ways.
The typical hold size for us is between $20 million and $50 million.
The next question will be from Moshe Orenbuch Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just -- yes most of my questions actually have been asked and answered.
But you -- I was struck by the comment that the ROA kind of in your target range.
Could you maybe Scott or John kind of comment on as we look forward you did talk about some expense reductions and some pressure potentially on asset yields.
What other things -- and maybe flesh out how much the kind of that ROA could change and what the drivers should be as you go through '13 into 2014? Yes sure.
I think the piece would be is as we said just starting off on credit.
So credit is below our kind of our target.
And so I think the drivers that we need to kind of focus on really the biggest one is operating expense.
And so that's kind of why we mentioned some of the actions that we're taking and that will kind of continue to improve and drive down our operating expense ratio.
I think on the margin where we are right now because of suspended depreciation and some of the yield-related fees we are kind of at the higher end and so I think that will kind of come down.
And then I think the other one is our other income.
Once we get the suspended depreciation out of that number it kind of gets into the target range.
So I think the key drivers are -- is the operating expenses provide a buffer for both the over time increase in the credit line as well as any price pressure we feel in the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> So just to kind of flesh that out you're saying roughly stable from here from an ROA perspective as the expense reductions get kind of used essentially to fund those items? Yes I'll let you say that.
I mean it's just a matter of kind of the timing of all those items really would be the same.
But if you talk about long term over the next kind of foreseeable future I think that's reasonable.
Our next question is Chris Kotowski Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Yes I have a couple of things.
First of all you mentioned a weakness in coal and steel railcars.
And I'm curious one does the weakness in the coal does that kind of reflect the gas revolution and are -- some of these coal cars are those becoming impaired? And then secondly in the steel I mean how sensitive is that historically to economic activities? Is it a leading indicator is it a lagging indicator? It -- and how quickly does that normally flow through? So on the coal cars yes it's directly related to natural gas prices and the ability of industries and power generators to switch out of coal and into natural gas.
I think we've seen most of that already.
So although the rates that we're getting on coal cars are lower as they renew I think that we've seen most of that adjustment take place already.
And we are renewing our coal cars.
They're just being renewed at lower levels so they're not impaired.
In terms of steel it is a measure or an indicator of economic activity but it's a global economic indicator not just a U.S.
economic indicator.
And I do think that some of that -- although because the U.S.
does export steel both to Europe and to Asia I think that's reflective of the economic slowdown in other parts of the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately you've got $1.5 billion valuation allowance against your DTA.
And now that you've been profitable on a GAAP basis for 2 consecutive quarters at what time do you revisit that valuation allowance and would one expect that to come in ratably over time as you're profitable? Or would it be just a -- that you make a single determination at some point in the future that -- and recapture the whole thing? Okay.
Chris first point I'll make is that on the decision it's a binary decision.
So it's all or nothing.
So it's not something you write [ph] in regards to reversal.
Two is we -- you're correct.
We are profitable on a book basis and in the quarter we were marginally profitable on a tax basis.
So it's really the tax -- taxable income that is the driver of the valuation allowance reversal not book income.
And as I've mentioned on previous calls the largest difference between our book and tax is really depreciation.
So I think when you -- when we look at this thing is that given the size of our valuation allowance we would have to have a kind of a multi-period of time of sustainability in that taxable income in order to evaluate the ability to reverse that valuation allowance.
But that's a -- that's not a near-term activity based on what we know today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it -- I mean it's primarily a North American valuation allowance as I understand it right? And the aircraft leasing revenues are booked overseas.
So I mean is that an issue that the geography of your earnings makes it harder to chew through that? Well you're right.
A lot of our aircraft are in Ireland not all.
So we have the railcar as well as the -- some aircraft in the U.S.
that creates the depreciation.
But the focus for the valuation allowance the majority of the valuation is U.S.
taxable income you are correct.
Our next question is from Mike Turner Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> It doesn't sound like this is really a large part of your business but I'm curious if you have any comments regarding the Federal Reserve's recent guidance on unlevered loans that came out in late March? Yes Mike as you know this guidance is not new.
It's just something where the regulators have spent time and made it more comprehensive and they've added some additional guidance around stress testing and also reporting on leverage lending activity.
But based on kind of what we've been doing in our credit organization we feel comfortable that what we do is kind of in-line with the guidance that is being talked about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think most of the industry's already been kind of up to speed with this since the initial proposal is really -- or the final guidance was really unchanged from the initial proposal? I'm not sure how to -- I mean what the...
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I guess I'm just trying to see do you think there's any -- do you think the industry will have to adapt or really kind of no change? I guess in general I mean my sense would be probably not.
But I'm not close enough to kind of some of the other institutions in regards to their practices.
But as I said it's been out there so it's just an enhancement.
So my general feel would be is that they should be able to adapt to it in due course.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also on expenses I guess you talked about sounds like another $20 million in targeted savings.
What's the base that we would be working off of for that $20 million the expense base? Well that $20 million is an annualized.
So we kind of -- we set out the $15 million to $20 million it was based on kind of our third quarter expense numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So about 9 20 or so in annually-ish? Yes and so that's kind of where we're trying to reduce from that level.
Our next question is Cheryl Pate Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the deposit side.
With the online deposits now making up more than 50% of your deposit base is there a specific target you're looking to get to? Or does this ultimately -- are you looking to replace the bulk of the brokered CD portfolio? And can you talk about sort of the pricing differentials between the online offering and what you're getting on the brokered CD? Yes I think it's just a continued diversification of our funding.
So our viewpoint is that the brokered CDs offer a good ALM avenue to get duration on the portfolio.
Especially as we're putting in railcars and other longer lived assets we believe that that's a good match for that asset class.
And so I think what's happened is the brokered level has kind of stayed fairly flat and we've been growing the online which we believe is a good mix for our portfolio.
The pricing differential between those 2 I think because the online is much more retail are shorter durations.
So it's not really -- it's not something we really would do on the brokered CD side.
So we're looking for 5-plus years in the brokered CD market and the online is more of a 1- to 3-year type product.
But we feel good about the growth in the online and continue to diversify the product offering that we have as well as getting multiple accounts within our current customer base.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on the net finance margin can you give us a sense on how much the suspended depreciation and the prepayment penalties added in the quarter? Yes suspended depreciation really hasn't changed over the last couple of quarters.
So that's kind of still in line with what we've had before and prepayments were about the same as last quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Ken Bruce Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm hoping you could provide a little bit more context for some of the competitive pressure that you were mentioning I guess specifically in the Commercial Finance and Transportation Finance.
Is this kind of broad based? If you could give any sense as to where you're seeing the competition whether that be regional banks large money centers; if structured finance is beginning to have an impact on some of the active players in those areas.
And do you think that -- you mentioned the term in pricing is under pressure.
Is it your thought that some of these competitors are becoming a little undisciplined in terms of how they're going about the lending in those areas? And give us any sense as to how you're looking at that evolving over the course of the year please.
Okay Ken.
So let's separate the 2.
So on the transportation side I would say that that's not really driven by competition.
I think in the aerospace it's really supply and demand as we have aircraft coming off lease.
And instead of sitting on the asset we will re-lease that asset at the market rates because economically that's the better trade.
And John also mentioned what we're doing on railcars.
So it's really -- when you have some of the softness it's really around the market lease rates at that point in time.
And so the team manages how to continue to keep the asset out there and then manage the duration so that we can kind of manage through those supply/demand cycles that we continue to have.
So that one's not really a competitive aspect.
On the Corporate Finance it's really not a lot different than what we've been kind of talking about is that there's the more plain vanilla type credits.
There's a lot of appetite and a lot of folks looking for that paper which puts pressure on the spreads as well as on the structure.
That's not kind of our core market.
So our kind of dynamic is in the middle market area that impacts the overall pricing because of -- on a comparative basis.
But we do see as people are kind of continuing to look for asset growth and yield that that does kind of back up into our core market.
But it's not like a -- it's not a phenomenon that we haven't talked about last couple of quarters.
It's just something we wanted to continue to give guidance on.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand.
I guess I'm trying to just get a better sense as to whether you're able to move out of areas that are becoming maybe a little frothy and lean on some of your -- kind of your core verticals with sufficient amount of pricing and volume expectation to kind of if you will continue to grow the balance sheet in the manner that has been or it's something where maybe the growth is ultimately got to slow because the market's just getting a little over -- getting a little in front of itself for the reasons that you mentioned? Yes I would say in general as we talked about on our ABL book we have gone into the more structured area versus the kind of the retail ABL.
So yes we have done that and pricing there has been stable or is still within our target returns.
I think on the kind of the cash flow lending it's some of the verticals I talked about and some of the industries where we're kind of doing most of our activity.
And that's really where the Equipment Finance and Real Estate markets are very attractive because that's a more structured product and it's an area where we can get the growth as well as acceptable returns to offset some of that pressure.
So you are correct that's kind of what we've been doing.
And if there's -- that's an area that we'll continue to focus on.
And then the maritime is also an additional kind of complement to our existing capabilities that we'll continue to look at other opportunities where we can get the price and returns that we want to continue the asset growth.
Our final question will be from Daniel Furtado from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you please talk about the dynamics competition and opportunity you do see in the Maritime Finance space? And also is the plan here to eventually lease equipment in this space or is it solely to be thought of as a loan portfolio? Sure Dan I'll take that.
So first of all we have been in the maritime space for a long time.
So we have provided maritime financing in the past.
But when we look to the marketplace we -- actually quite similar to Commercial Real Estate many if not all of the European banks have pulled back from lending into that marketplace.
Asset prices were severely depressed.
Operating lease rates were very low.
And so it is not a space that there appear to be a lot of competitive pressure right now and it's a space that we thought our expertise both in terms of asset management and in transportation assets as well as having a history in that business all of that made sense to us.
And so we really have increased our focus on this space and really right now are looking at some very attractive opportunities to make loans against assets at good risk return profiles.
And so we are intending to start with loans.
That's the -- the deals we've done are in fact loans.
But I would not rule out at some point in time us also owning assets to lease.
We do have a final question Henry Coffey Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Yes Henry Coffey with Stern Agee.
The $20 million of overhead reduction I know we bounced around this a little bit.
How much of it was realized in the first quarter and how much do we have to go? Okay.
Henry this is Scott.
So I think the $20 million I mentioned was really kind of go-forward based on some of the actions we've taken in the first quarter.
Then we had some that we took actions in the fourth quarter.
So I think we saw some of that benefit coming through in the first quarter that was kind of offset by some of the comp-related items I mentioned.
So that's the kind of the actions we did take.
We're seeing that come through but it was not evident in our reported numbers in the first quarter.
And then the second actions those will come in later in the year because of the challenge -- the difficulties of kind of working through that.
Research Division</strong> So if you subtract $6 million from your current overhead you should have the sense of where you are today.
Is that...
The $6 million? You're talking about the restructuring charge? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Well the comp-related items are not in the restructuring.
Those are kind of in the comp and benefit line and those are just kind of the seasonal first quarter as other institutions have had.
When we issued our third year of the RSU grant we had kind of the restart of FICA and 401(k) for many of our employees.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then I -- yes well and then on the buyback situation obviously a frustrating point.
Is it simply a question that you're in queue and the queue is moving very slowly? We've seen that with a lot of the companies we follow in the mortgage sector.
Or is it there's an active dialogue going on and obviously you can't talk about that until the process is completed? Well I guess I would say we don't really know whether there's a queue or not.
I mean there is an active dialogue but the timing of getting a response I don't think we have any information on.
Having no further questions this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
We thank you all for joining this morning.
And as always if you have follow-up questions please call me or anybody else from the Investor Relations team.
Thank you very much.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Laura and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Laura and good morning.
Welcome to CIT's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2012 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'd like to now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you all for being on the call this morning.
I'll make some opening comments and I'll turn the call over to Scott.
We had a good quarter.
We earned $184 million of net income $0.91 a share.
Our commercial assets grew 9% from a year ago.
CIT Bank funded over $1.8 billion of new volume.
Virtually all of our U.S.
lending and leasing businesses were originated in the bank.
The bank's deposits are over $11 billion now.
The average rate on those deposits is about 1.5%.
And the bank now represents about 35% of our total financing.
We're seeing progress on our focus in bringing down our expenses.
Our credit metrics remained at economic cycle lows.
Our capital and liquidity remained strong.
And we began the process of returning capital to our shareholders.
Overall our view of the U.S.
economy is that it continues to grow at a modest rate.
If you look across our businesses we see that in our railcar business.
98% of our railcars are on lease.
In our Corporate Finance business we've funded $1.3 billion of volume in the quarter.
In our factoring business our volumes were up from a year ago.
And in our vendor financing and leasing assets grew 11% from a year ago.
When we look globally our commercial aircraft business our planes were 100% leased.
And in our vendor business internationally we saw volume growth in China and Mexico.
So overall good solid quarter.
And I'll turn it to Scott for the details.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
We reported another solid quarter as we continue to make progress on our strategic initiatives while staying disciplined on our underwriting and portfolio management.
And as John mentioned we began to return capital to our shareholders.
Some highlights for the quarter.
Net income was $184 million or $0.91 a share.
Our commercial portfolio grew 9% from a year ago and 1% sequentially.
Net finance margin was stable at well over 4%.
Credit metrics remain near cycle lows.
Our operating expenses improved and pretax ROA was above 250 basis points.
My comments this morning will focus on the business environment key financial drivers and capital and funding.
Our commercial financing and leasing assets increased about 1% sequentially.
This reflected growth of $2.9 billion of new business volume which was across all our business segments including about $360 million in scheduled aircraft deliveries.
However our asset growth was muted by normal portfolio collections higher prepayments and asset sales.
We saw an elevated level of loan prepayments in Corporate Finance mainly from refinancings where we chose to limit our participation due to price [ph] or structure.
We continue to make progress building relationships in the middle-market customers and win our target industries where the risk-adjusted returns meet our hurdle rates.
In addition we sold almost $500 million of assets mostly in Transportation Finance.
As part of our review of subscale platforms we moved about $450 million of assets into held for sale.
We also expect to close the sale of the $400 million Dell European portfolio which along with the other assets held for sale will be some headwind to asset growth in the second half of the year.
Turning to margin.
The adjusted net finance margin was essentially unchanged from the prior quarter at 4.62%.
You can see the trends and components on Page 5 and 6 of the presentation.
We had a modest benefit in funding costs as we increased the proportion of deposit funding.
And as we've previously discussed we had lower interest recoveries in Corporate Finance on nonaccrual loans which reduced yield by about 10 basis points.
We expect our margin to drift towards the midpoint of our target range as the Dell European portfolio is sold and pricing pressures continue on certain new volume and lease renewals.
Generally higher interest rates are beneficial to our business over the long term.
An increase in short-term rates would positively impact our margin as we are asset-sensitive with most of our floating rate assets priced off LIBOR.
Therefore the recent increase in the 10-year rates have not had much impact on CIT.
Our core nonspread revenue increased from the first quarter and exceeded 1% of average earning assets benefiting from higher fees and gain on equipment sales.
We had a few lead agency transactions that generated capital market fees this quarter.
We are pleased with the progress we are making but maintaining a higher level of fees will primarily be dependent on a recovery in M&amp;A and capital markets.
And as you know the summer months tend to be slow so we are not expecting this level to repeat in the third quarter.
The gains on equipment sales this quarter primarily related to sale of over $300 million of commercial aircraft as part of our normal portfolio management activities.
In addition other nonspread revenue included losses related to the sale of certain international platforms most of which was the recognition of foreign currency translations that were previously recorded in other comprehensive income.
Turning to operating expense.
We continue to make progress on our expense reduction initiatives and are on track to achieve our target quarterly run rate of about $215 million in 2014.
This quarter we reduced headcount by an additional 70 we've sold 2 subscale platforms and we are actively working on several others.
As a result of these international platform rationalizations we recorded a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets which totaled a little over $20 million an increase to tax provision this quarter.
So looking at the second half of the year we expect the tax provision excluding discrete items to be at the levels comparable to the first 6 months.
With respect to funding we continue to enhance our funding profile.
We expanded our deposit offerings and extended duration to match our asset profile and we renewed and extended our vendor U.S.
and U.K.
conduits at more attractive terms.
Now turning to capital.
During the quarter we commenced the repurchase of shares under the $200 million plan authorized by the Board of Directors at the end of May.
Also based on our interpretation of the Basel III rules which will be effective for CIT in 2015 we do not expect much of an impact on the regulatory capital ratios.
We will use the standardized approach to calculating risk-weighted assets and we do not currently have many of the items that will be deducted from regulatory capital under Basel III.
In summary we are making good progress on our near-term priorities.
Our pretax ROA is within our target range and we continue to focus on prudently growing assets.
In our Transportation Finance business we are investing in new equipment and expanding our lending initiatives while managing through the repricing of certain renewals.
In Trade Finance we are focused on expanding our client base while maintaining strong credit discipline.
In the Vendor Finance business we are focused on growing platforms where we have scale to create operating leverage.
And in Corporate Finance the competition for loans has continued to impact spreads and structures.
Here we are maintaining our discipline and focusing on building relationships with customers in the middle market as well as on our new initiatives in Real Estate Finance and Equipment Finance.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Laura and we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brad Ball of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm wondering if you can give us some of the moving parts in the net finance margin.
How much was from suspended depreciation this quarter? And how do you see the progression to the 4% or the middle of the 3.5% to 4.50% range that you've mentioned? Yes.
The suspended depreciation still is kind of in the 30 basis point range Brad.
And as the portfolio transitions in the second half I can't give you by-quarter split but we expect that to go away by the end of the year.
And then as we've talked about on the elevated prepayments and interest recoveries that was about 20 basis points.
In the past we had about 10 basis points in the quarter come down.
So I'd expect over the second half that that would come down.
I can't give you exact timing but we expect that to come down as refinancings slow and interest recoveries kind of go away.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the elevated prepays actually go down to 0 at some point in the future? It won't be exactly 0 but we won't have -- it will be very episodic based on that activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up on the OpEx line you've targeted $60 million to $80 million.
You said you're on track get to that level.
Do you see an opportunity with some of the subscale international losses to maybe go beyond that as you get into next year further cost saves beyond the $80 million? Yes.
We continue to look at our operating expenses.
And a part of it as you know we continue to invest in new growth initiatives and new ways to add assets.
And we'll balance that with kind of our operating expense target.
So we're trying to get in the range on the operating expense.
And if things change the environment changes economic growth changes we will have to continue to revisit our operating expenses.
But right now at least based on what we know today we feel that we're on target.
And our next question is from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital Markets.
The next is Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering hoping you can kind of flesh out a little bit your plans for kind of growth by segment and maybe talk a little bit the competitive environment.
You mentioned Corporate Finance so talk a little bit on kind of vendor transportation things like that.
Yes.
I think I'll start with transportation.
As you know we placed the order book and those scheduled deliveries will kind of continue to come through.
The railcar stuff is shorter so it's coming in every quarter.
On the aircraft it's a much longer kind of order book.
The ways that we will supplement that is some of the lending initiatives we've had both in the maritime as well as in the aircraft space around lending that we're doing out of the bank as opportunities to continue to grow that business.
And the way to grow the operating lease business would be in the sale leaseback where we continue to look at that market.
And if they meet our return expectations for assets that we like those would be other ways to grow the transportation segment.
On the vendor business the U.S.
business is doing very well.
And we're -- as John mentioned on the call some of the other international platforms where we have good presence we're also seeing good growth there.
So I think the growth on that one is going to be really kind of CapEx spending on the kind of the products that we finance as well as overall kind of economic growth.
On the trade business the volume we continue to focus on new customers diversifying our portfolio into some nonapparel areas to give us some diversification on that front.
And then on the Corporate Finance area the market overall as I mentioned in my open statement is almost half of the market right now that we play in is refinancings.
So what we have done is we've passed on certain refinancing but we've been able to build good customer relationships.
And as you saw from the strong volume that we're finding places to place capital where we think the risk-return equation makes sense for us.
So I think the -- we're staying up with the marketplace and to get above that would require both economic growth as well as additional initiatives or other areas to focus on in the Corporate Finance area.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just as a follow-up you had mentioned kind of last quarter talking about the possibility of looking at some deposit acquisitions of branches and the like.
I mean any further thoughts there? No.
We continue to look at deposits and branches.
And if we find some that we can acquire at attractive prices we would continue to try to do that.
And the next question is from Chris Brendler of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk quickly about the assets you sold this quarter? I think you mentioned transportation $500 million.
I just was surprised to see the loss show up in the income statement on the sale of assets.
Well there's 2 components Chris.
I mean if you look at the gain on sale of leasing equipment which was the transportation side that was positive.
So that's the line that's $33.8 million.
So that would be our vendor end-of-term residual realization as well as the sale of the aircraft.
The negative that's in the gain on loan and portfolio sales relates to the platform sales that I mentioned.
And that's really the foreign exchange items that were in OCI so it already -- the negative was hit in OCI.
And when we sold those platforms that's booked through the P&amp;L.
So that's really what drove the change in the gain on loan and portfolio sales.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the buyback just a little bit surprised that the pace was kind of slow.
I know it just -- you only had a partial month and you may have run into a quiet period.
Is there -- is the outlook that you can accelerate the buyback activity? Or is there anything we should be taking away from the relatively modest pace you've had so far? I think you pointed out what was the challenge and given the timing of that and kind of the calendar.
So I think that that -- we'll continue to focus on the buyback over the next couple of quarters.
And next we have a question from Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the buyback.
At a higher level could you just talk about how you think about your ability to return capital now that the written agreement has been lifted and technically you have no limitations though I guess presumably you won't want to do anything that's too aggressive that the Fed becomes concerned? Is there a maximum payout ratio that you'd feel comfortable with? Well as you said I think given where we have been we are definitely going to be very prudent on how we approach capital returns.
We're very mindful of kind of some of the guidelines that are out there.
And I don't think that we're going to be at those levels in the near term.
So we kind of look at our capital return both from the stress testing and the activities that we look at.
And we will continue to be committed to returning excess capital to our shareholders in a prudent way.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just to follow up on that it looks like the capital that was created this quarter kind of your earnings net of what you paid out was kind of effectively deployed in loan commitments.
Is a lot of that -- your forward order book in Transportation Finance? Or are they kind of commitments in your Corporate Finance business where there's kind of -- and if so is there any kind of visibility on the probability that borrowers will draw on those commitments? Yes.
So the 2 biggest drivers of our kind of commitments are both the rail and aircraft orders as well as the unfunded commitments on our asset-based lending product.
So we haven't seen Mark a big change in the utilization rates on our revolvers for the -- since I've been here.
So it's been some more -- pretty steady.
And with economic growth and people's confidence that's usually the first indicator of kind of people drawing that down.
But right now we haven't seen a lot of movement there.
So that's the unfunded out there on the -- that you're seeing in the financial statements.
And next we have a question from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I wonder if we could decompose a little bit on the net financing margin.
And I guess my question specifically is if you look at your average loans they were up $700 million from $21.6 billion to $22.3 billion.
But if you look at the gross interest revenues generated by the loan portfolio it went down by $5 million from $349 million to $345 million.
And I was wondering is that the effect of the lower recoveries? Or is that the effect of just general spread compression? Could you dissect that for us a bit? Yes.
It's mainly from the lower interest recoveries on that front.
So I think the yields right now have held stable.
But as the market -- as I mentioned the amount of new business coming on versus the overall portfolio you won't see that kind of make a big impact on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
It will be something that will be gradual.
So the big items are the suspended depreciation and the prepayment and interest recovery items that I've mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the recoveries are now virtually 0? Or what were they in the quarter? We still have some that will come down over the second half as I mentioned to Brad.
Probably about 5 10 basis points more that will come down as part of the natural portfolio churn.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that there's $8 million accelerated FSA accretion.
So does that mean in the coming quarters we should expect all things being equal with that caveat obviously your interest expense would be $8 million a quarter less? Yes.
So that was just the redemption of the retail notes that we did in the first quarter also.
That's related to that so that would not repeat.
So the only change would be is most of the other FSA that we have on the debt side really is related to our student loans and the secured financing we have around those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you look at the period-end loans $21.7 billion versus the average $22.3 billion.
And that's the $450 million that you moved into AFS the fact that the period-end loans were down? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally did you -- can you say how much of the deferred tax assets federal deferred tax assets you used this quarter? I can't -- as you know tax is something that we don't do a hard close on a quarterly basis.
But as I mentioned last quarter based on our continued performance we were tax income-positive.
I can't give you the magnitude of that will be more a year-end type item that we can talk about.
And our next question is from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
I wonder could you just expand a little bit on what you were saying was happening in terms of pricing and competition? You said you passed on some refinancings of Corporate Finance assets.
I just wondered -- and commercial assets.
Yes.
I think in the Corporate Finance as we've talked about the kind of the market we feel hasn't changed much from the first quarter and we're just remaining disciplined on our approach.
So I don't know if it's a general trend in the marketplace we're seeing.
But every deal that you look at if it doesn't fit our profile we will pass on that and we're focused on originating assets that fit our profile.
I think that's probably the simple -- I mean the overall market as I mentioned was mainly refinancings so there's not a lot of new asset growth happening in our core middle market.
Okay.
And then could you just clarify what you were saying about the taxes the provision for taxes going forward of somewhere between the $15 million and $32 million? Is that in the second...
Yes.
So what we said is we had a $20 million -- about $20 million discrete item in the quarter.
So that $32 million would take you down to on a core basis probably more like $12 million.
And if you look at the first quarter it was kind of around $20 million so that's kind of the 2 kind of pieces.
If you look at it on a year-to-date basis that's probably a better indication of the tax provision going forward excluding any discrete items.
Okay.
And then just to clarify have you bought any shares in July since the end of the second...
We're in a quiet period.
So our quiet period goes until I think another 2 days.
And the next question is from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So I had just a couple of questions.
The first thing I wanted to ask was as you think about the use of the NOL and how much taxable income you can generate in the U.S.
and you think about that vis--vis portfolio acquisitions and maybe making those acquisitions more aggressively possibly bidding a little bit more for them than your competitors but then generating the income that will allow you to utilize the NOL is that something that comes into consideration? Do you take that into account when saying "It's going to take us a long time to use the NOL on our own.
Maybe we can afford to go out and get more aggressive with portfolio acquisitions?" Do you feel you're at that point yet where we might expect more acquisitions from you on that front? I think Sameer to answer your question it is definitely a consideration that we take into account.
But that's one factor.
And the overall factors of one is what the assets that are there what's the dynamics of those assets and would that help us get over the hurdle? I think it gives us some uplift but I don't think it's something that at least in the marketplace and some of the deals that have traded that that wouldn't have helped.
So the deals that we do do we take that into consideration.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the other question I had was when -- you've talked about the middle market and you've talked about the competitive environment.
And clearly it is pretty intense.
But we're hearing that that's more true and has been true probably more of the broadly syndicated market.
If you go further down in terms of the types of credits then it seems like deals are more structured there.
There still seem to be attractive pricing opportunities on a relative basis.
So do you have an appetite? I mean I know you said you want to maintain your risk parameters and it doesn't sound like you really want to go further downstream.
But it does also feel like you might be leaving money on the table if there are these pockets.
So is that something that you might consider doing at some point in time? Or do you just feel that the market is overall so frothy it's not worth really stretching to get there? I think Sameer your assessment is kind of consistent with what we see.
So I think the broadly syndicated market is much more competitive.
And as we talk about the plain vanilla ABL is kind of something that that doesn't meet our risk return.
Just to clarify we did $1.3 billion of funded volume in our core finance -- Corporate Finance business so we are finding transactions.
And your general assessment of the middle market is correct.
I think in general the discipline has been pretty well and so our viewpoint is it becomes more of a transaction-by-transaction where there could be pockets of players that are in that that are not mainstream in the overall middle market transactions.
So we're -- I don't think we're leaving anything on the table.
We're trying to manage both kind of the portfolio properly as well as making sure that we're doing good deals.
And if they fit our parameters then we will do the deal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question was in your Vendor Finance business you provided some commentary but -- and you've been trying to rationalize some of the subscale platforms and the like.
But it seems like that's one area that's been an area of strength for CIT in the past.
So what should we expect out of that business? Are you planning to announce more partnerships in that area? Are you pursuing additional partnership opportunities more aggressively there? And should we hear -- expect to hear more on that front? I mean how do we reconcile that with the rationalization of certain platforms that you've been doing? My sense would be as John mentioned that the asset growth year-over-year in the vendor business has been pretty strong.
So we of course are always out looking for new partnership arrangements and new client relationships through the business.
And part of that also is expanding into different collateral which takes a little bit of time to kind of work through.
I wouldn't confuse that with some of the platforms we're talking about because it's really not going to be a big impact on either assets or revenue.
It is really kind of a simplification activity as well as the costs to serve some of those markets in the current environment are just too onerous to maintain.
So that's really kind of -- it's not an indication of the business model it's just kind of doing some selective pruning.
And our next question will come from David Hilder of Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> First any updated thoughts on the timing of potentially reversing the valuation allowance on the DTA? We never kind of gave out a timing on that aspect.
I mean others have but I don't see any movement on that during 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask the capital return question I guess in a different way.
Any guidance you could provide on the timing of when you might be in a position to make additional announcements about capital return? Look we look at this continuously.
And so you will be -- whatever decisions we make will be public so you'll kind of get the feel for that.
But as we've said May was just 6 weeks ago 7 weeks ago so I think we're going to continue to focus on it and hope to have future conversations with you over time.
And next we have a question from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Scott I was hoping you could share your thoughts on the exposure draft that the FASB and IASB issued a couple of months ago on -- which my understanding is that it basically would require companies to recognize assets and liabilities for leases.
And so effectively operating leases that got off-balance sheet treatment would be brought on balance sheet.
Does that -- I guess more understand that's an accounting change.
But would there potentially be any kind of economic impact to the leasing industry in general to the extent that maybe one of the attractive features of an operating lease to a borrower is off-balance sheet treatment? Just general thoughts on that would be helpful.
Yes.
I'll make some general thoughts because it is something that's been in discussion and continue to have comments on the implications of some of the changes on the accounting side.
Those proposals are going to take effect kind of -- I think the latest one was somewhere around 2017.
So we have a dedicated team.
We have a lot of experts in-house as well as leveraging some of the industry bodies around this of how -- what the implications that will be on our customers what the implications that will be on the leasing industry those type of things.
My sense would be is that a lot of this information is already disclosed in people's financial statements.
And I would say that it's not economic -- it's not an economic decision.
I think it really becomes kind of the administration and how to account for this and all the information needed to do that.
The larger companies have something that they can put systems in place.
I think as you get into the smaller middle market maybe a bigger kind of burden or cost burden on that.
But it's still too early to kind of say how that will change.
But we are very focused on it and have a team that's actively working that.
So we'll continue to keep you posted on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
On deposits they're now at about 35% of your funding.
You've seen obviously some very healthy growth there.
Now absent acquisitions can you talk about what you plan to do to continue to drive -- sustain some of the growth in deposits that we've seen so far? Yes.
We continue to diversify our product offerings where we spend a lot of time in regards to growing our relationships with our existing customers measuring how many multiple accounts we have with customers and providing products that support that.
So we -- the online banking retail banking activity has been very successful for us.
We see there's still much room to grow on that to support our asset growth.
But we also will be supplementing that deposit growth with other forms of funding in the bank as we diversify the bank funding model.
So there'll be other forms.
As we mentioned the conduit that I talked about is at the bank and we think that it would be good to have other contingent liquidity and other sources of funding as part of the overall bank funding model.
And next question is from Matthew Schultheis of Boenning and Scattergood.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's sort of a follow-up to the deposit question.
I think it was a year ago from your Investor Day you said that '13 looked like the year you were going to roll out business deposit and arguably cash management services.
And I wanted to see where you are in that development understanding that in my opinion a self-funded loan book is a wonderful thing.
So just where you are with business checking and cash management and the development of those? Well since you kind of had that closing piece about that so as we saw -- and it's one of the things that we've talked about one of the capabilities that we would like to have.
We have been focused on growing the kind of the consumer side and as I've just mentioned had been pretty successful.
We are looking at the business banking and cash management activity.
But I would say that that's probably not a 2013 item.
It's a little bit more -- it's a lot more capabilities and infrastructure than some of the infrastructure we have put in place for the online deposit side.
So we are still focused on doing that and think will help us build our customer relationships.
But it's not going to be most likely a 2013 item.
And our next question is from Cheryl Pate of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Scott you spoke to the asset-sensitive nature of the balance sheet but commented that the recent change in the 10-year hasn't had much impact yet.
Can you help us on how we should think about the impact of rising rates on the asset yields over time? Is it 1 quarter or 2 lag that we should be thinking about? And just more generally the potential offset against some of the headwinds in terms of lower interest recoveries et cetera on the back half the year? Yes.
So Cheryl most of our portfolio is kind of 1-month LIBOR.
Some is -- part is 3-month LIBOR.
So as you know the repricing with our customers there will be a lag between -- it's short-term rates so we're very focused -- on short-term rates LIBOR has to go up not the long end of the curve.
And my sense would be that that's probably going to be a 30- 60-day kind of lagging process depending on the nature of the underlying kind of billing cycle with those customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the deposit side.
Deposit growth slowed a little bit on the online channel this quarter and I think you spoke to some of the attractive renewals you're about to do on the conduit business et cetera.
I'm just wondering was there any change in strategy or change in pricing on the online channel in terms of are you consciously slowing the growth a little bit there or...
Yes.
We built the platform.
We had some excess cash at the end of the year.
We used some of that with Flagstar so we're at a point now where the bank is fairly mature in our view.
And we think we can -- given the liquidity we have we felt we could try to improve the matching of asset growth with deposit growth.
So from that point of view we're not changing kind of our core strategy but we also want to see if we can moderate those 2 elements.
So in June we did lower the rates on our high-yield savings account given the overall market and some of the competitors also did that.
So that was something that didn't impact the deposits going down much.
But it will lower the cost and keeps us within the good competitive environment.
But there's nothing -- we feel we have pretty good levers on how to moderate our deposit growth consistent with our asset growth so that we can manage our cash balance.
So as you saw our cash balance was about $2.5 billion and we want to continue to make sure we have plenty of liquidity in the bank but we'd like to optimize that a little bit more.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from Daniel Furtado of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 I think relatively simple questions.
The first is approximately what percent of originations in the quarter and the last 12 months were refinances? And then number two how should investors think about the backup in high yield as it relates to your business? I'll do an estimate.
Remember most of the refinancing is in the core Corporate Finance business.
And I would probably say it was about 40% to 50% refinancing over the last kind of 12 months if that's what you're looking at.
So I guess your second question was the backup in the high yield.
Are kind of talking about it from a perspective of our Corporate Finance customers? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just kind of thinking that -- I know that some of those Corporate Finance customers aren't quite large enough to access that market.
But if that was presenting an opportunity for you guys or if it was more of a risk to refinances in the space.
Well as I say I think backup in the high yield would be 2 things.
It could slow down the refinancing activity for the marketplace.
And number two it could be beneficial on the pricing side as you kind of look at the alternatives that are out there between kind of our leverage lending versus the high yield.
And next we have a question from Jordan Hymowitz of Philadelphia Financial.
Can you talk at all about your Rail business specifically your tank car business? There's been an increasing amount of backlog in the tank car business and increasing talks of compliance costs related to modernizing fleet.
I know the tanks are the majority of your fleet.
But if you could talk a little bit about the profitability of Rail and specifically tank.
No it's not true that the tanks are a majority of our fleet.
No I'm saying they're not a majority of your fleet.
No a small portion.
Yes.
Tanks are a relatively small portion of our fleet.
But actually tank cars have been in high demand right now.
A lot of the frac-ing activity has led to the need to move natural gas liquids.
And so if anything right now the tank car market is good.
For us.
I mean because Jordan we've kind of bought a lot of those in the 2011 through now.
And so I think those are kind of the new technology that may be different than some of the older tank cars.
In regards to the overall profitability of the Rail business as we've talked about it has been one where the overall business has been doing very well as we kind of came out of the cycle of 2009 with high utilization and also upward trajectory on lease rates both for the new equipment that we have but also some of the equipment that was renewing and pricing at higher rates.
So the business is performing very well for us.
And this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Well we thank you all for joining us this morning.
And if you have any further questions please either call me or anybody else in the Investor Relations team.
Thank you very much and have a good day.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Amy and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Brause Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Well thank you Amy.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2012 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website www.cit.com.
I'll now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
Good morning everyone and thank you for all of you for being on the call.
This morning we announced our third quarter results net income of $200 million or $0.99 a share.
And last night we announced a quarterly dividend beginning at $0.10 a share.
The dividend combined with our share repurchase plan will give us greater flexibility to return capital to our shareholders.
But we will also continue to invest capital in our businesses.
Our commercial assets in the quarter increased 8% year-over-year and were up sequentially for the eighth consecutive quarter.
CIT Bank continued to grow with assets of $14 billion and deposits of almost $12 billion.
Our Transportation assets grew slightly quarter-over-quarter and our commercial aircraft were 100% committed and our railcars were 98% utilized.
Our Corporate Finance business originated funded volume of $1.1 billion in the quarter and assets grew to just under $10 billion.
Our Vendor Finance business originated $761 million of new funded volume and assets were essentially flat due to the partial sale of our Dell European portfolio and the ongoing rationalization of our vendor business in countries where we are subscale.
The factoring volume in our Trade Finance business was up year-over-year and sequentially.
The credit quality of our portfolio remains stable with credit metrics at cyclical lows.
We remain well capitalized and very liquid.
Although our headcount continued to decline our expenses were impacted by legal costs and the costs of our international rationalization efforts.
And despite the dysfunction in Washington we see the U.S.
economy continuing to grow at a modest pace.
Our middle-market companies are generally optimistic about their businesses but are concerned about the level of economic activity in the U.S.
about their health care costs their taxes and the regulatory environment.
As Scott will cover in more detail we do see pricing pressure in certain areas of our business but our businesses continue to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We reported another solid quarter while continuing to make progress on our strategic initiatives.
Here are some highlights as John mentioned.
Net income was $200 million or $0.99 a share.
Our commercial portfolio grew 8% from a year ago and 1% sequentially and we continue to focus on returning capital to shareholders and we reinstated the dividend last night.
Pretax ROA was on the high end of the target range benefiting from some noteworthy items.
Core trends were generally as expected.
Net finance margin reflected the sale of the Dell Europe portfolio and the competitive environment.
Our credit metrics remain near cycle lows.
Core non-spread revenue was similar to last quarter.
And as John mentioned operating expenses were higher this quarter due to some legal-related and platform rationalization costs.
We continue to build the franchise and make progress on our priorities.
The environment remains competitive.
I will focus my remaining comments on the key financial drivers and the business environment.
Commercial financing and leasing assets increased about 1% sequentially despite over $700 million in asset sales.
Total new business volume was $2.6 billion including $285 million in scheduled aircraft deliveries.
And we saw a more normalized level of loan prepayments in Corporate Finance this quarter as refinancings slowed.
We sold $365 million in Transportation assets mostly aircraft as part of our normal portfolio management activities.
The remaining sales included about $200 million related to the first tranche of the Dell Europe portfolio and additional asset sales from our Vendor Finance international rationalization efforts.
Asset sales will continue to be a headwind to overall balance sheet growth in the next few quarters.
We closed on the sale of the remaining $300 million of Dell Europe assets on October 1.
In addition we expect to make more progress on other subscale platforms including the sale of our SBA loan portfolio that we moved into held for sale in the second quarter.
That sale will reduce assets by just over $0.5 billion when it closes.
While we are exiting this product we continue to serve small business clients across our Vendor Trade and Corporate Finance businesses.
Turning to margin.
The adjusted net finance margin declined 40 basis points to 4.22%.
About half the decline related to 3 noteworthy items: lower interest recoveries less benefit from suspended depreciation and lower FSA loan accretion.
The remaining decline was primarily due to lower lease revenue reflecting pressure on certain renewal rates in the commercial air portfolio and the sale of the Dell Europe assets which had high yields.
The fourth quarter will include a full impact of that portfolio sale as the remaining assets were sold at the start of the fourth quarter.
In Corporate Finance pricing seems to have stabilized in the core middle-market lending business but at lower yields.
Competitive pressures have shifted to more leverage than pricing and we continue to maintain our underwriting discipline to achieve the appropriate risk-adjusted margin on new business.
With respect to Transportation Finance on average lease renewal rates in the rail portfolio are repricing up while the commercial air portfolio is repricing slightly down putting pressure on overall rental revenue in this segment.
Our cost of funds was relatively flat this quarter and going forward any additional improvement will mainly result from a larger proportion of assets being funded with deposits.
Given these factors we expect the adjusted net finance margin will continue to move to the middle of the target range.
Our core non-spread revenue was relatively flat from the second quarter at about 100 basis points of average earning assets.
We had a number of lead agency transactions this quarter that generated capital market fees.
We are pleased with the progress we are making on gaining market share in lead agency roles.
And as I've previously mentioned capital markets fees will vary based on M&amp;A and buyout activity.
Gains on equipment sales this quarter primarily related to the sale of approximately $300 million of commercial aircraft.
We continue to proactively manage the risk in our portfolio but expect the level of gains to come down significantly as there was strong demand for assets we sold earlier this year.
There are a number of transactions that were reflected in non-spread revenues this quarter including a $21 million gain on the first tranche of the Dell Europe sale impairments we took on assets transferred to held for sale mainly related to our international rationalization strategy which largely offset the Dell gain and a $13 million gain recorded in other revenue related to a workout in commercial air.
The sale of the remaining Dell Europe assets will result in a similar gain in the fourth quarter but we anticipate this gain will be partially offset by additional charges related to subscale platform exits.
Also the related impairment charge on the Dell Europe assets will go away in the fourth quarter but will be offset by lower gain on equipment sales.
In summary overall non-spread revenue will likely be at the low end of the target range.
Now turning to operating expenses.
Excluding restructuring charges operating expenses were up from the prior quarter mainly due to higher costs related to certain legal matters and country exits.
This quarter we concluded our strategic review of the vendor platform in Europe and decided our focus there will be solely on the U.K.
where we have scale access to efficient funding and multiple product offerings.
In total we plan to exit over 20 countries across Europe Latin America and Asia and we are progressing to the necessary regulatory legal and other matters.
While our normalized expense target remains about $215 million per quarter in 2014 given the complexities of exiting countries and platforms restructuring and legal costs will likely stay elevated for another few quarters.
With respect to funding we have $2.8 billion of debt maturities over the next 2 years that have an average cost of about 5%.
We plan to pay them off in part through cash-generating activities at the holdco including proceeds from assets and platform sales.
In addition we took advantage of a strong market receptivity in July and issued 10-year $750 million bond with a yield just over 5% which will result in some negative carry until our next bond maturity in March of 2014.
At the bank deposits are approaching $12 billion and we continue to issue deposits to match our asset profile.
Overall our funding mix remained relatively unchanged this quarter at 35% deposits 38% unsecured and 27% secured debt.
So in summary we continue to make progress on our priorities.
Transportation Finance continues to invest in new equipment while maintaining strong utilization and active portfolio management.
And we are expanding our product offerings in Transportation Lending and marine finance.
In Trade Finance we are making progress winning new clients particularly in non-apparel sectors while maintaining strong credit discipline.
Vendor Finance's U.S.
platform is performing well as we manage through the complexities and cost of exiting over 20 countries.
In Corporate Finance the team continues to grow market share and assets in our middle-market lending business as well as in our new initiatives in real estate and Equipment Finance as we maintain our discipline and focus on building relationships with customers.
Almost all new U.S.
lending and railcar activity is in the bank which now represents just under 40% of total commercial assets.
And we made more progress on our share repurchases this quarter and reinstituted a dividend demonstrating confidence in our capital framework and commitment to return capital to shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Amy and we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brad Ball at Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Scott I wonder if you could clarify your comments on OpEx.
If we exclude the unusual expenses related to closing the international offices would you expect to be inside of your target OpEx of 2% to 2.5% of average earning assets next year? And if so where are the cost savings generally coming from? Is it the headcount reduction? Is it the elimination of those international offices? What are the main sources of cost savings? Yes Brad so I would say that the target we put out there was based on expectations for asset growth and other factors.
But our view is given what we see right now if we get down to that target that would put us in the kind of the high end of the operating expense ratio.
So I would tell you that the -- we've had about 250 headcount reductions since third quarter of last year and another 40 in the quarter.
So you see our comp and benefit line is declining.
Our professional fees were elevated this quarter as I mentioned due to some of the legal matters and exit costs.
So I think as those platforms it will be combination across multiple expense lines because some will be people costs.
Some will be lower professional fees as they were smaller platforms as well as some of the occupancy costs that will go away.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my quick follow-up similarly on the credit side you've actually been running better than your long-term target and expectation.
Do you see returning or getting back up above the roughly 50-basis-point credit loss rate in the foreseeable future? Or is the credit picture just very clean as far as the eye can see? Yes I mean I don't think we want losses to go up.
So I think that the viewpoint would be as you see in the industry I think we're at a point where all financial institutions the loss rates are kind of at cyclical lows.
And I think we don't see any signs in the portfolio that would change kind of that outlook for the next quarter or so but that's all subject to kind of the environment and market environment.
But we don't see anything in the short-term that would change where we're at.
And Brad let me just add one thing which is that those metrics are for the average over the credit cycle.
Right now we're in a very good part of the credit cycle and the combination of still growth in the U.S.
economy in particular and very low levels of interest rates and very high levels of liquidity really I think will -- as long as that continues it's likely you're going to see very low credit metrics.
Our next question comes from Chris Kotowski at Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you can give a bit more color on the slippage between the growth in loans and average loans and gross interest income? Loans were up -- average loans were up $320 million -- average loans were up $324 million linked quarter and interest income is down $15 million.
How much of that is due to Dell Europe? Were those higher-yielding loans? And how much is just basic margin compression? And how should we think about that dynamic going forward? Yes Chris I think there's 2 -- a couple of things going on there.
One is the lower-interest recoveries that we've been talking about is one piece.
The Dell Europe assets are higher-yielding assets so you'll see that pressure.
You saw it in the third quarter.
You'll see more of that in the fourth quarter.
And so in the vendor business we need to kind of build back that.
It was about $450 million of assets so we got to build back those assets over time to make up for that revenue.
And those are kind of the key pieces.
And we again in the business we talked a little bit about the aircraft business.
But there is competitive price pressure in the other segments but it's not the main driver in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up on the interest expense side given the growth in your deposit capability deposit-taking capability is it time for you to adjust the target mix of assets that you've been talking about for the last couple of years? I mean wouldn't it make sense to be more deposit funded than what you played out and where you are? Of course so as we've talked about I mean we put targets out there.
If we were more deposit funding it's not that we're not going to go do that.
And then we have a couple of dynamics that I tried to call out Chris was really around what's going on with the debt maturities at the parent company.
So if you look at the deposits they stayed at 35% at total.
We had $750 million of additional debt we issued to help with those maturities and we had $750 million growth in our deposits.
So as we get through the maturity in 2014 you'll see the parent company debt go down and you'll see deposits get -- become a bigger proportion of our portfolio.
So we don't -- we're not going to stop growing our deposits and our assets in the bank but that is all dependent on the growth that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you said you expected to pay off $2.8 billion just from cash.
So we'll see [indiscernible] ? I did -- no I said we -- it's going to be partially paid off with cash.
The more we can pay off with cash versus issuing new debt would be beneficial to us.
But that's all dependent on the growth environment and if we have attractive assets to finance at the holding company.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler at Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with the margin a little bit.
I don't know if you quantified in the call the impact from suspended depreciation this quarter but the impairment that shows up in the other line looks to be increasingly negative 1 [ph] $22 million to $45 million this quarter.
So I think that's just at the suspended depreciation actually on the top line actually got more of a benefit sequentially.
Can you help me understand what's going on with the suspended depreciation since the -- some of the Dell assets were sold this quarter? Yes Chris so I would say that the majority of the impairment for the quarter the increase was driven by certain platforms we moved into held for sale.
So that was the driver of that.
In the Dell portfolio and also some of the aircraft sales suspended depreciation did decline in the third quarter and will further decline in the fourth quarter as the remaining portfolio is exited.
So as I mentioned about 20 basis points of the change was related to that the interest recoveries that we had talked about before and a little bit on FSA.
When we moved some of the loan portfolios into held for sale in the second quarter that FSA gets eliminated as part of that transfer.
So those are the things that happened.
The other 20 basis points was due to the fact that the assets that we're selling in Europe are very higher-yielding assets.
So we're going to have some pressure on that until we earn back the -- build back those asset bases.
And then we also mentioned part of the impact was due to lower lease revenue due to some of the renewals we've had during the year on certain aircraft.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just so -- I guess when you move assets into -- like I was under the understanding that if you -- once you've moved assets into held for sale that are operating leases you got to suspend the depreciation in the depreciation line but you also get a pretty equal offset in impairments to assets held for sale.
When you move new assets in is there an offset in suspended depreciation in that case or no? No because the assets we move we're moving kind of platforms into held for sale so you won't have that same phenomenon.
[indiscernible] Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's what I thought.
If there was a net -- it could be a net negative this quarter if you look at suspended depreciation plus impairment? Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question and I'll get off is just can you give us an update on capital strategy? I think not terribly surprised to see that the pace of the buyback but only that I think your comments recently was suggesting that you're taking a slow pace.
What's the philosophy around the slow pace of the buyback? I think some people were hoping you could get the $200 million done relatively quickly.
Yes well I think Chris I just put in the context of what we announced last night.
I think we were focused on looking at multiple sources of returning capital to our shareholders.
I think a combination of both the dividend and share buyback is a good approach and we spent a lot of time in the third quarter on that.
We did buyback shares in the third quarter but we're staying disciplined in regards to those repurchases.
And we'll continue to do that through the fourth quarter.
And so I think we feel good at where we're at.
Being out of the written agreement only for 4 or 5 months I think the capital activity we've been able to demonstrate I think is a positive.
Our next question comes from Sameer Gokhale at Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
The first question was just thinking a little bit big picture when you look at your deferred tax asset and then the valuation allowance I know you've talked about some of the near-term strategic priorities.
But where does this fall within your thinking of strategic priorities over the next 12 to 24 months? I know on previous calls we talked about buying portfolios to generate more U.S.
taxable income.
But are there other things you can do like transfer pricing between U.S.
and international or other things you can do to try to increase your taxable income? And can you give us a time frame over which you can maybe realize more of the value of those -- of the NOLs simply because it's a big asset.
It's a hidden asset and there's clearly an NPV associated with the use of the assets.
So can you talk about that a little bit? Sure Sameer.
Thanks a lot.
I would say that we -- as we've mentioned before we're very focused on this.
So I'm very focused on finding ways to utilize the NOL.
And then in regards to what happens to the VA that's kind of more of a technical evaluation process.
So we continue to grow assets in the bank.
Any -- if we can grow faster in the U.S.
in U.S.
assets that would be beneficial.
I think two is we've gone through what you mentioned in regards to transfer pricing.
We have gone through that over the last 18 months to shore up and be in compliance with that process.
I think the other piece would be is as we continue to kind of reduce the cost of funds at the holding company I think that will kind of play through if we can pay off more of the debt at the holdco with the cash cash generation versus issuing new debt that will be beneficial.
So we're looking at all avenues in order to realize the value of that hidden asset.
But it's $5 billion so it will take us -- take some time to -- in order to do that.
And Sameer all 3 of our new business activities so the Maritime Finance the Real Estate Finance and the Equipment Finance all 3 of those are generating U.S.
income.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful because there clearly is a lot of trapped value there.
The other question is on your SBA portfolio I mean it sounds like that's been shrinking for quite some time.
But the -- at one point CIT used to have I think one of the biggest SBA lending businesses.
So can you just remind us what changed there? Is it just that the market got too competitive for that asset? Or why do you feel that that's a business that you decided to eventually divest? Just some of your thought process there would be helpful.
Yes a couple of things Sameer.
One is I think the business model historically has been through kind of the brokers and agents versus kind of a lot of other businesses originate that through their branch network.
Two the assets are at the holding company and the yields on the portfolio are -- have caps on them so it kind of is very challenging given our cost of capital at the holdco to make those profitable.
And three as you mentioned around scale it's a very process-intensive business and without having the scale it makes it very challenging to have an acceptable return on equity.
So we thought it would be based on that just that product line we thought it was the right thing to exit it free up cash and improve the overall returns for the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question with the 13 Embraer aircraft deliveries that you canceled were there any costs associated with that cancellation? I'm assuming not.
But were there any costs there? No not that I'm aware.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had a follow-up on capital.
Is the 30% payout ratio implied by this quarter's buyback activity and the recently announced dividend? Is that an indication of kind of a level at which you feel comfortable returning capital? Or is there potential to meaningfully go above that in the near term? I think we are -- Mark we're getting started in the process so I think there is upside potential over time.
You kind of see kind of what the industry kind of parameters that are out there in regards to dividends and buybacks.
And it's something that we're focused on getting to those type of peer group ratios over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But no limitations on your ability other than just the ones you're imposing on yourself to go above that? I mean in general on these items you take into consideration a lot of factors.
And so we continue to look at those different factors and we'll -- it's part of our thinking around how we return capital to our shareholders.
But as John mentioned we're very focused on growing assets and -- that are -- meet our return hurdles and are good for creating shareholder value and then also returning capital.
So those are both the key focuses.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And can you update us whether you've seen any improvement and opportunities to apply capital through asset purchases? It's pretty competitive.
As I think you've heard probably through the piece we continue to look at them.
We see certain activities.
We've had -- we've been buying portfolios over the last 3 quarters.
Some are smaller that we don't kind of mention.
So we did a few small portfolios in the third quarter.
So yes we continue to look around.
There hasn't been anything the size of like Flagstar that we did at the end of the year but we continue to find opportunities.
Our next question comes from Ken Bruce at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question relates specifically to the aerospace business.
You had mentioned the deal with American Airlines.
I'm wondering could you maybe just identify whether that would be done within the bank sub or at the holding company if this will help to offset some of the margin pressure that you're seeing elsewhere in the business please? Yes I mean so we're looking at different alternatives for that portfolio but because it is a U.S.
carrier it gives us that opportunity with respect to potentially putting that in the bank.
But I think in general growing the portfolio and putting on good yielding assets in the Transportation business is a key priority.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess I'm trying to understand just in terms of some of the comments around margin if you're anticipating that being funded at the bank which it obviously has a much better cost of funds relative to the holding company and how that might work its way into the margin overall.
And if you could remind us what -- you'd indicated that kind of the middle of the range is what you're -- believe that the margin's biased towards.
If you can just remind us what that range is? Okay.
So Ken I would say that we're looking to put a portion of those assets into the bank.
So as you mentioned that would help in regards to the improvement on the net finance margin going forward.
From a perspective of what the target we put out there on the net finance margin we had 3.5% to 4.5% was the target.
So that's kind of when we mentioned as I did a couple of months ago at the Barclays kind of mentioned that we would be moving towards the middle of the range.
Research Division</strong> And any update on Maritime Finance please? We continue to see very very attractive opportunities in that business and we expect to see significant growth opportunities and the ability to put capital to work there.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch at Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could kind of discuss in the context of the discussion that you've been having about margins either what the new -- what the spread on new business that you're putting on in the quarter is compared to the existing margin and kind of how that might relate to where the margin ends up.
Well Moshe this is Scott.
So as I mentioned on the Corporate Finance business we've seen some stabilization last few quarters but it is at lower levels than it was for the overall portfolio that was originated over the last couple of years.
So that is just the nature of the competitive environment.
But we continue to focus our originations on those areas that we get the appropriate risk-adjusted margins for the business.
I think on the vendor business I would say in the U.S.
funding in the bank we've seen some kind of yield pressure there but it's not as dramatic because of the funding that we have for that.
And the international platforms have a higher yield given the cost base but as we exit those countries that will have some impact on the mix side.
And then in Transportation Finance I mentioned in my earlier comments that on rail overall the pricing is up for the portfolio.
And the aircraft is slightly down because we have some positives and some that are kind of below what they came off the expiring rate was.
So I think it's kind of -- it's nothing dramatic.
It's just a confluence of some of the new business versus the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> I guess where I'm just having difficulty because you've only got like 20 basis points to that midpoint of kind of your range and it sounds like the things you're outlining are things that are likely to continue for several quarters particularly as the portfolio grows and some of the old assets are either sold or refinanced.
So I guess how do you feel confident that it kind of levels out at somewhere in that middle of that range? Well when I -- Moshe as you know there's a lot of things that kind of happen.
We -- I'm not going to give you kind of forward guidance but it's a matter of the middle is kind of plus or minus there given some of the factors that we have to look at.
But as we originate certain assets we just talked about some of the aircraft.
And also I think as you get into next year as we address some of these kind of debt maturities that could have an impact.
So it's -- I don't -- from a quarter-to-quarter point of view it's more kind of where we're going to be as an overall.
It's kind of a -- more of a steady state through the year versus a particular quarter.
Moshe the other thing I would say is that when we look at adding new assets even in places where the absolute yields may be lower when we look at the economic capital that we're assigning to those we're still generating good economic returns on our capital and good risk-adjusted returns.
And so the risk-reward balance is still attractive to us.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I'm not disputing that in the least and I think you should actually do any of those even if the -- it does drive them lower.
It's just a question of factoring it into the guidance and kind of working it from that direction that's all.
Yes it's a fair point.
I think as we go through this a part of it's going to be some of the exit that -- exits we're going through.
Some of the portfolios that we're exiting will impact the mix over the next couple of quarters depending on timing of that.
And then two is the next debt maturity is in March of 2014 so you won't see that impact of -- until the second quarter of next year.
Because we have cash now.
We're taking -- as I mentioned we have the negative carry so that to me is kind of the fact of over the next couple of quarters you may not see that.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim at Buckingham Research.
I wonder could you talk a little bit more about the -- I guess the reengineering of Vendor Finance and kind of how much do you think profitability of the business could improve returns maybe and how much smaller it might be in the year 2 years do you think? Yes David I would say that the -- we mentioned part of this is kind of a shift in the model for the overall marketplace.
We were -- the old model was to be in pretty much in every country.
That was very costly as well as subscale.
So the impact of all the assets that we have moved into held for sale was a couple of hundred million dollars for those countries that we're exiting platforms we're exiting.
So the core business won't be impacted but the cost associated with those platforms was very high.
And so that's really the focus that we have in the vendor business.
It's a high net finance margin business and the OpEx is what we're trying to right size.
So as we get through these the faster we can get through them you'll see that kind of come through.
But if you look at the platforms in the U.S.
and the other international platforms we're in the profitability there is very good.
So at the end of this process where would most -- besides the U.S.
and U.K.
where will most of the rest of the business be? Yes.
So we have the U.S.
Canada and the U.K.
China and then in Latin America we have Brazil and Mexico.
And then could you just talk about the potential eventually for seeing loan sales by European banks? Is there any sign that that might be -- that situation might be improving for you? Well this is now probably a year ago the European banks showed around a lot of portfolios of assets that we were interested in.
They all generally had relatively low yields and so when we bid on them we bid them at discounts to par and then the European banks wouldn't sell them because they wouldn't take the losses.
If anything I think the pressure has come off the European banks and so I think there's less pressure for them to sell.
There's -- the assets themselves haven't really changed.
So I think the willingness of the European banks to actually sell and take losses is probably not any better today than it was when they wouldn't sell them before.
Our next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is you've obviously announced these actions with respect to the SBA portfolio and now with Vendor Finance.
So more broadly sort of what inning are we in with respect to business line reviews and exits? And is this something that we should expect to continue over the next several quarters? Are we sort of getting to more the end of this where the core business of CIT will be most evident? Yes I think we're kind of fairly complete with that given the vendor activity that we've had.
And as you mentioned really kind of the focus has been at the assets at the parent company given the cost of capital there.
So I think there could be some additional but it's not going to be the same scale that we've been experiencing.
And remember it's not just businesses that we're exiting.
It's also businesses that we're entering.
And so while we're rationalizing the businesses that we have we've also as we mentioned before reentered Commercial Real Estate and kind of reemphasized Maritime Finance and also reentered the Equipment Finance business.
So we're both growing attractive return businesses as well as shrinking or selling lower-return businesses.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's actually a very good point.
So I guess maybe my follow-on then is and are there other business lines that you're not in currently that are potentially compelling to you? We're always looking at that and there's -- that's an ongoing dialogue here.
And so there's new industries.
There's new products that we continue to look at as John mentioned.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache at Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Looking at -- back at the last couple of years we saw you guys move very quickly to get the FSA accounting noise behind you and today you have a much cleaner P&amp;L as a result.
Looking at your balance sheet you still have the non-core consumer loans that create a bit of noise to your overall loan growth.
Could you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about the consumer loans here and why you wouldn't redeploy them into more attractive commercial financing and leasing assets particularly given the strong growth that you're generating there? Yes I think Bill the way we kind of think about student loans we sold the student loans that we had in the bank and replaced those with good commercial assets and so strategically that was the right move to do.
The remaining assets we have are at the parent company and they're older tranches of student loans that are pretty seasoned and are fully financed.
So there's not a lot of -- there's no cash generation out of that.
Low economic capital so they're not bad for where we are in the cycle in regards to kind of a low-risk yield to the portfolio.
But long term they don't kind of fit with the business and we have to continue to look at how they play into our long-term strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's possible that they won't necessarily just -- you won't let them run off but there may be a point where you look to kind of redeploy that capital? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then finally I have a question on the effective tax rate.
Scott my understanding is that your ability to draw down on your NOLs is going to enable you to not have to pay cash taxes for years.
But wouldn't you still have to recognize income tax expense on current period income as your U.S.
profitability increases so that basically your cash tax rate is 0% but that you're still recognizing income tax expense on a GAAP basis? Can you address what -- can you address that? Yes in the U.S.
business you wouldn't have a tax provision because of the valuation allowance that we have.
So that -- there's state taxes as we've called out that you have to pay.
There are some technical AMT.
But generally it's -- you would not provide for your -- on your GAAP books for that.
And then internationally you provide on the GAAP basis but again in certain of our operations the taxable income is different than the book income just like the U.S.
So in general the tax provision we talked about the book tax provision is mainly from the international earnings predominantly the aircraft business that's outside the U.S.
Our next question comes from Daniel Furtado at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> The first is just can you help me recall? I know that you had guided in the $15-ish million per quarter in GAAP tax expense for this year.
Did that -- does that carry through to '14 as well? Or have you not said anything about '14 yet? No we haven't got to '14 yet.
So in 2013 outside of discrete items we've been kind of running in that kind of $15 million range.
And so we'll have to relook that as we go into 2014 based on mix of business and other factors that we'll talk about I guess next year.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
And then the other question is would you mind updating us on your retail deposit strategy kind of how that's progressing? I know at one point in the recent past there was talk of you kind of trying to figure out if this should be a buy or build type of strategy.
Could you just kind of update us there please? Yes I think the retail deposit strategy is doing very well.
So we continue to add new products grow our customer base.
So we're over -- continue to grow every quarter.
As I mentioned deposits grew about another $750 million for the quarter.
And as we go through that process our whole key point is making sure that we have a great customer experience and provide multiple services for them.
And that's kind of our focus.
What we've talked about is in addition to that is there ways to complement the online banking kind of strategy maybe with a kind of a branch network small branch network that could also provide core deposits in a different source of funding over time.
So we are in the process of kind of having a branch opening in Utah and that will be our entry into looking at that as another alternative.
Our next question comes from Cheryl Pate at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just touching on capital management again and understand that sort of balancing the dividend and the buyback drove maybe a little bit more caution on the buyback than some of us were expecting this quarter can you talk about what type of environment or scenario you'd have to see to deploy the full $200 million buyback this year? I don't know Cheryl.
I think we'll just -- as we mentioned I think we'll just continue to stay disciplined and work towards returning capital to our shareholders.
And I don't think we're going to -- there's not a lot of guidance I can give you on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the deposit side can you talk to us a little bit about sort of the market on the brokered CD side and sort of what type of pricing you're seeing there and what type of duration or terms are sort of the key ones that you're focusing on adding to the book at this point? Yes.
On the brokered CD as we -- I mentioned I think at the Barclays conference because of the increase in the 10 year did increase the cost for some of the longer-duration brokered CDs we're issuing.
So our main focus in the brokered CD market is really on the 5 7 and 10 year.
And we've seen good progress over the last several quarters of continuing to do that.
Some weeks are up and down but in general we're originating what we need to to support our business growth.
And we think that's attractive given the kind of the railcar assets and some of the other longer-duration loans that we are putting into the bank.
Research Division</strong> Right understood.
And can you just give us a sense on sort of what the mix of online versus brokered CDs were in terms of the deposit growth in the quarter? I'd say probably fairly balanced probably a little bit more on the online than it would be on the brokered CD side.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Chris Kotowski at Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm sure you're going to say that your regulators are always fully aware of what you're planning on doing.
But I'm wondering was there a process for the additional dividend approval? Or was this part of the original request? And going forward can you describe what the process would be for additional capital returns? Well it looks like you answered your question but I would say that Chris we stay focused on -- we have ongoing conversation with all our regulators and we'll continue to do that.
I would say that that's part of the normal process that we go through.
There's nothing that I would say is special.
But it is something that we continue to ensure that we have good communications and open dialogues about our expectations and what we're trying to do.
Research Division</strong> But it's not an annual process? Well it's an ongoing process.
Our next question comes from Sameer Gokhale at Janney.
Research Division</strong> I love talking about this NOL and DTA so I just had a follow-up on that.
The question I had was I know that that accelerated depreciation on the leasing assets has been kind of a large contributor to kind of putting downward pressure on U.S.
taxable income.
And I was thinking that as it may take maybe through 2016 for some of that pressure to alleviate from the outside when you look at it we clearly don't have access to your depreciation schedules and the like and I know it's mostly the rail assets in the U.S.
that are causing that -- the downward pressure on U.S.
taxable income.
So is it fair to think of it as when we just look at the depreciation schedule in a vacuum and we look at how much accelerated depreciation we have had in the past you recently became kind of marginally profitable in the U.S.
when you look at the next 3 years or so do you think it's reasonable to assume it'll take about that long for the pressure caused by the accelerated depreciation kind of play out and then beyond that then you start seeing more benefit? I mean is that kind of a reasonable time frame to think about it from just a purely depreciation standpoint? Yes Sameer maybe I'll answer it at a different way.
I think the depreciation as you mentioned is based on some of the new railcars we're purchasing and things.
But just assume that the appreciation doesn't grow as fast as our earnings.
So the faster we can grow assets in the bank and the margins that we're getting on the new originations in the bank that if pretax grows faster the depreciation rate probably won't grow at the same rate.
Sameer the other way to think about it is when we are looking at our mix of businesses we're deliberately trying to add more loan assets into the U.S.
into the bank.
And so if you look at the Transportation side we've been adding loans.
If you look at the Maritime Finance those are all loans.
So those are all generating income in the U.S.
without this depreciation effect.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that make sense and I appreciate that color.
That's one of the reasons why I thought you might be trying to look at more portfolio acquisitions and I think if those opportunities arise you might pull the trigger.
But that does make sense.
At this time we show no further questions and I'd like to turn the conference back to Ken Brause for any closing remarks.
Well we thank you all for joining us this morning.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions please call me Barbara or Raul [ph] at Investor Relations and we'll be happy to answer them.
Thank you very much.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Amy and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ken Brause.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Amy and good morning.
Welcome to CIT's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As was announced last month after nearly 7 years heading Investor Relations for CIT I'm transferring into a new role here.
It's been a pleasure working with all of you through what I thought was a fascinating chapter in CIT's history.
Barbara Callahan who many of you know has been with CIT since 1999 and has been a key member of the IR team for the past 2 years.
While she has assumed responsibility for IR I wanted one last opportunity to open an earnings call so here we go.
Our call will be hosted today by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we'll have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2012 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC last March.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in the press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'd like to now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Ken.
And on behalf of both Scott and I Ken we appreciate all of your efforts in your IR role.
Of course we now expect more from you in your new role.
And welcome Barbara to your new role.
Thank you.
This will be great.
So thank you all for being on the call.
Good morning.
We reported a good quarter but with some noise in the numbers.
We earned $130 million after tax which includes the effect of the tax agreement settlement and some other items which Scott will talk some more about.
Particularly in the quarter we originated $3.1 billion of funded volume.
That's $1.3 billion in our Corporate Finance business $1.2 billion in our Transportation business and $711 million in our Vendor Finance business.
Our commercial assets grew 8% year-over-year and 2% quarter-over-quarter.
The credit quality in our portfolio remained stable with metrics at cyclical lows.
Our capital position and our liquidity both remain very strong.
We returned capital both through share buybacks and dividends.
And as you know last week we announced an additional $300 million buyback plus the incremental little piece that was left from last year's and our quarterly dividend as well.
We continue to grow CIT Bank.
CIT Bank now funds more than 40% of our commercial assets.
And we also continue to focus on our expenses.
The corporate restructuring that we announced in December is designed both to better align our businesses with our customers but importantly to also improve our operating effectiveness.
As we look out over 2014 we see gradual improvement in both the U.S.
and the European economies.
We do see continued pricing pressure in certain segments of our business.
And what we're going to focus on is growing our assets and achieving our profitability targets managing our expenses growing CIT Bank and diversifying its funding and continuing to return capital to our shareholders.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We continue to make progress on our strategic initiatives and delivered another quarter of solid operating performance.
Here are some highlights.
As John mentioned fourth quarter net income was $130 million or $0.65 a share bringing full year net income to $676 million or $3.35 a share.
Our commercial portfolio grew 2% sequentially and 8% from a year ago.
We made further progress on our efforts to rationalize subscale platforms.
Credit metrics remained at cyclical lows and we repurchased nearly 3 million shares this quarter bringing total shares repurchased since we started the buyback program in June to slightly over 4 million.
While our results were impacted by the cost of settling the tax agreement and a few other noteworthy items which we detailed on Page 3 of the presentation our operating performance was as expected.
The sequential increase in commercial financing and leasing assets reflected the $3.1 billion of new business volume which included about $500 million of scheduled aircraft deliveries.
Partially offsetting that volume was the sale of about $400 million of Vendor Finance assets primarily the remaining Dell Europe portfolio contractual runoff and refinancings of corporate loans.
We achieved 8% annual growth despite selling $600 million of assets related to our portfolio optimization efforts.
Corporate Finance grew $1.7 billion from a year ago reflecting the success of some of our growth initiatives such as Commercial Real Estate and Equipment Finance as well as the Flagstar portfolio acquisition in the first quarter.
And in Transportation Finance the $300 million growth in the loan portfolio from a year ago included the contribution of Maritime Finance.
As noted in the press release in the fourth quarter we transferred our remaining $3.4 billion of student loan portfolio to assets held for sale.
We expect that our portfolio optimization efforts will continue to be a headwind to asset growth.
The net finance margin declined to the midpart of the target range as the elevated benefits of suspended depreciation on assets held for sale as well as yield-related fees and interest recoveries on loan prepayments are now largely gone.
Some of the sequential quarter decline in the finance margin was a result of market dynamics and competitive pressures especially in our Commercial Air business.
And given we have a predictably high number of aircraft lease renewals in 2014 there could be further pressure on the finance margin as some of these trends continue.
Additionally with the transfer of the student loan portfolio to assets held for sale we will no longer be recognizing the FSA loan accretion associated with it.
This in turn will reduce the finance margin by about 10 basis points until this portfolio is sold.
And as previously discussed we are building cash in advance of the 2014 and 2015 debt maturities which will also continue to constrain the finance margin.
Our funding costs were relatively flat this quarter.
We will continue to focus on optimizing our funding sources both in the bank and the holding company to ensure that we have efficient funding for the new asset originations.
Our non-spread revenue was higher this quarter due to the net benefit from several items including a $17 million gain on the sale of a leveraged lease that had a corresponding $13 million tax expense a $19 million gain on a workout-related claim and $29 million gain on the sale of the final tranche of the Dell Europe portfolio.
These gains were partially offset by $22 million of impairments recorded on assets held for sale related to our international rationalization efforts.
Fee revenue improved.
We won more lead agency roles which resulted in higher capital market fees in the quarter.
And in 2013 we made good progress in our middle-market lending business winning back market share and being awarded more agency roles.
The gain on sale of commercial aircraft were lower in the fourth quarter.
And as I said last quarter we expect that trend to continue given the current market environment.
In summary non-spread revenues should continue to be around 100 basis points of average earning assets.
We continue to make progress on our expense initiatives in order to position the company for the future.
In the fourth quarter we reduced headcount by an additional 140 we completed the sale of several subscale platforms and as John mentioned announced a reorganization that will better align our business with our customers and streamline our processes.
We expect to reinvest savings from this reorganization in growth initiatives.
Overall our focus remains on improving our expense ratio towards the target range through a combination of cost reductions and asset growth.
Moving on to taxes.
The utilization of the U.S.
NOL remains a key priority and we are executing various initiatives to improve our U.S.
taxable income.
However our NOL increased in 2013 driven by adjustments to prior year tax filings.
I know you are interested in the process and potential timing of a reduction of the valuation allowance on our domestic net deferred tax asset.
We do not yet have 3 years of cumulative normalized book taxable income the primary test for determining whether the valuation allowance can be reversed.
This profitability measure has been improving over the last few years and we expect to meet this criteria by the end of 2014.
At which time we will focus on the other evidence to evaluate the amount and timing of any potential full or partial reversal of the valuation allowance.
In the near term our GAAP tax expense will be driven by international earnings and state taxes in the U.S.
And for 2014 it is likely that our tax provision will remain around $20 million per quarter.
We continue to diversify our funding profile.
CIT Bank completed a $750 million vendor equipment securitization with an average coupon just over 100 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Deposits grew to $12.5 billion consistent with our asset growth.
The average rate of our deposits is a little over 150 basis points and consists of a mix of term CDs and savings accounts sourced from online and broker channels.
Our deposit strategy is designed to match liabilities with our asset profile.
And as a result the weighted average duration of our deposits has lengthened as we continue to originate longer-term assets such as railcar and other Transportation assets in the bank.
We continue to make progress generating cash at the holding company to pay off some of the $2.8 billion of debt maturities over the next 15 months.
And we recently extended our revolving credit facility and reduced the commitment from $2 billion to $1.5 billion given the changing mix of assets between the holding company and the bank.
So in summary we made good progress on our 2013 priorities.
We grew commercial assets by 8% while maintaining strong underwriting discipline as we grew our core commercial franchises organically; invested in new initiatives like Commercial Real Estate Equipment Finance and Maritime Finance; placed new orders for and took delivery of air and railcar equipment; and purchased portfolios such as the Flagstar loan portfolio.
We expanded CIT Bank's assets and deposit franchises.
The bank now represents over 40% of total commercial assets and deposits increased to 36% of total funding.
Essentially all new U.S.
business is being originated in the bank.
And last week it took delivery of its first 2 aircraft which have been leased to a domestic carrier.
We achieved our pretax ROA target and we will continue to look for opportunities to deploy our capital at attractive returns.
And lastly we returned nearly $220 million of capital to our shareholders through both share repurchases and dividends.
And John mentioned that the board authorized an additional $300 million share repurchase in 2014.
As we enter 2014 we are better aligned to deliver our full range of financial solutions to our target customer groups.
And we will share more about our new organization and progress at our next Investor Day which will be on June 25 in New York City.
The Investor Relations team will be sending out details of that event shortly.
I look forward to seeing many of you then.
With that I'll turn it back over to Amy and we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mark DeVries at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if you addressed this in your prepared remarks but could you talk about what the impact will be on your pro forma balance sheet capital ratios and earnings from the acquisition of the European railcar leasing business that you referenced in the release? Well the portfolio is around EUR 500 million.
So the risk-weighted assets would be 100% of that.
So the impact will really be offset by or be consistent with our asset growth.
And with the sale of the student loans that will kind of take down our risk-weighted assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any kind of guidance on earnings accretion from that? No we won't provide that first.
We'll focus on getting that closed and then we can talk about it most likely in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just one other unrelated follow-up.
Should we assume that the authorization the board granted for 2014 is meant to cover the entire year? Or could you potentially use that Up and go back to them at some point in the year and ask for an additional authorization? I mean the authorization was set for 2014.
But there's a possibility depending on what events happen that we could do something different.
But I think that's really the intent was for 2014.
Our next question comes from Ken Bruce Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First of all Ken congratulations on your new role.
Well miss you here in IR.
So first question is there any way to dimensionalize what the Commercial Air lease renewals what's coming up either in '14 the entirety or over the next couple of quarters? Is there any way to look into how that may impact that margin that you mentioned? I would say that the renewals are kind of spread out evenly through the quarters as it stands today.
And we have an increase over 2013.
We have about 50% more renewals than we did in 2013.
And the -- as I mentioned it's really dependent on the combination of 2 things: one supply demand and the pricing at that particular point; and also the type of aircraft that is renewing.
So I think in general Ken there's some aircraft that are coming off that will renew above kind of the rates coming off and there'll be others that will come in below.
And what we're saying right now based on our current look and forecast that that will be continued pressure on the margin.
Research Division</strong> And then probably a different direction.
Europe has been talked about as a potential opportunity for some time.
There's been a lot of discussion around Maritime assets in particular with some of the European banks.
John or Scott can you comment at all in terms of what opportunities you see within that theater and how we should be looking at that as a growth driver for '14? So I think you should consider that as something that's still to be determined.
It is true that there are very large portfolios of Maritime assets in the European banks.
To the extent that they come for sale we will look at them.
The history recently has been not very much has ever actually traded because most of the time the prices that they would trade at are significantly below par and so then the banks won't sell them because they don't want to take the loss.
So very little has traded so far to the extent that stuff actually comes for sale and trades we'll look at it.
But that's really been the constraint in the last year or so.
Our next question comes from Brad Ball with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I also wanted to ask about capital return.
Could you talk a little broadly about your strategy for capital return.
With the 16.7% Tier 1 common ratio it seems like that's about $2 billion of excess capital.
You've also moved a significant amount of assets into held for sale.
I wonder if you could talk about the timing of that potential sale? And would that potentially free up capital for you to be more aggressive with the buyback program relative to what you've done so far? Brad I'll start.
So the student loans as we've talked before have a low risk-weighted asset versus our core Commercial business.
So it will free up some capital.
But given our asset growth the net of that will kind of -- will be something we'll look at.
But as we've stated before we've made good progress over the last 6 months since we started the kind of return of capital.
So with 2 buybacks and a dividend we feel good about what we've been able to achieve.
We're mindful of kind of the industry guidelines out there.
Our progress in 2014 is higher than what we did in 2013.
And we'll continue to evaluate the kind of market environment conditions.
And we are definitely focused on our capital ratios and getting down to our target capital ratios as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> And what level of payout would you target? I think it's hard to answer a specific.
I'd like to kind of look at where the industry is and get to that level would be something that we aspire to get to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up is on expenses.
Scott we used to talk about targeting $215 million of quarterly run rate expenses.
Are we still targeting that? Is that still achievable? In what areas do you still have room to cut costs? Yes it's still something that we've talked about as what we're focused on for 2015 -- or 2014.
The piece that's still moving is really the kind of the international platforms that as you saw in the quarter we moved several of those into held for sale and took the mark on those.
So the timing of executing on those subscale platform rationalizations will really be the key driver of our expense reduction to get down to the $215 million.
But we're always continuing to look at opportunities to gain efficiencies as John mentioned and we'd like to reinvest some of that in growth areas that we see within the business.
So part of it will get down to the $215 million and then part will be reinvested in growth.
Research Division</strong> Would you see getting to the $215 million this year? The -- the thing is it's really contingent on the exit of the international platforms.
So if that happens kind of sooner-than-expected but I would kind of think about second half is probably more likely.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little more color on the current conditions in the Corporate Finance business.
It sounds like more of the same not seeing a whole lot of new origination activity also on an elevated level prepays.
But as I'm looking at the numbers this morning it looks like the prepays kicked up quite a bit in the quarter.
Just maybe give us a general sense of the competitive environment and what you're seeing in the Corporate Finance business? Yes I think the overall industry I think saw that the market and Corporate Finance continues to have a lot of refinancings and prepayments.
The overall loan volume is not growing much.
And so based on some of the economic news it would be helpful to kind of get a little bit more M&amp;A buyouts which will provide opportunities to counteract the refinancing piece.
But our volume for the quarter and year-over-year is really kind of a testament that we are winning the business that we want to be in.
The pricing is kind of at lower levels than it was a year ago but it's been kind of consistent with third quarter.
And of course given the current environment there's a lot of competition for the loan volume that's out there.
I think we're doing a really good job of leveraging our relationships and winning the business that we think fits our target returns.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I agree.
The origination side looks solid.
Any uptick in buyout activity? Is there a reason for optimism there? And then an unrelated question maybe just some additional color on the factoring business.
That continues to see like it's not really a business that's doing that well is it competitive? Is it the industry conditions that retailers aren't interested in factoring anymore? Can you sort of give a little more color there too? Yes on your first point Chris in regards to what would drive that catalyst I think there's -- that's been a topic of conversation probably for the last 18 months.
There's definitely money in the space looking at transactions.
I think most of the owners of those companies are looking at trying to improve the efficiency profitability of their business.
And I think the catalyst for when activity increases I can't really kind of give you a sense right now.
We haven't seen much but if it's a good transaction those will happen.
With respect to the factoring business I think it's consistent with overall environment for retail.
I think we're doing a really good job of credit discipline and the -- we're holding our own in regards to the factoring commissions with respect to the market.
And there are a few players in that marketplace that are definitely very competitive.
And we have continued to focus on leveraging our historical relationships our knowledge to offset some of that kind of competitive pricing in regards to our customers' health.
The next question comes from Eric Beardsley Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just as you look at your liquidity past the 2014 and 2015 maturities what's the right amount of cash for you to be holding on the balance sheet? I guess Eric that's a -- it's all -- the way that we kind of do our cash forecasting on liquidity is based on numerous activities.
But my expectation would be as the cash at the bank holding company would really be dependent on the size of the assets we have there the commitments we have in regards to kind of the aircraft order placements that we would need and then having a buffer to protect ourselves in the event of any disruption in the capital markets.
At the bank the level of cash in the bank has been kind of relatively constant at around 18% 20% of total assets which is not inconsistent with the industry.
I think the thing that we are continuing to evaluate is is there an opportunity to invest some of that cash in safe investment securities that would provide a little bit more yield than we currently get on our cash? But in the bank I think that the range of our overall liquidity is not different than the industry.
It's just the mix of cash and investment securities.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just on another topic.
Are you done with the reserve releases here? I know that you said that you feel like you're at cyclical lows for credit but you held the allowance for loan losses flat here.
Just wondering what your thoughts are from reserve adequacy moving forward? Yes I think if you look at our reserves for the last couple of quarters we've kind of stayed in that range of around 2%.
Our reserve methodology is kind of more than a -- 1 year kind of reserve policy.
And it's really based on the portfolio mix the trends in the portfolio and also new originations.
So as we grow the portfolio we will continue to provide for new business.
And some of the reduction we've had in the past really had been order assets that had higher reserve levels that were rolling off versus we changed anything in regards to our practices and our methodology.
So I think where we are today the trend in the reserve will be commensurate with the credit quality of the portfolio as well as provisioning for new business.
Our next question comes from Sameer Gokhale at Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> And firstly I'd like to congratulate Ken as well on his new role.
It's well deserved and best of luck in your new role Ken.
Thank you very much Sameer.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
Firstly on the railcar business Scott you didn't want to get into specifics for accretion.
But I was just trying to get a better handle on how to think about the profitability of the European railcar business.
I mean should we assume that the pretax ROEs in that business are relatively consistent with what you have currently on your overall -- in your railcar business let's say 4.5% or so pretax ROEs.
Is that reasonable? Or should we assume that that business in Europe generates a lower return than that? I think it's a lot -- before we actually take the assets on what I would say is that part of it's when it closes how much impact that would have in 2014.
Number two you'll have some costs for integration of the platform that will again mute some of the go-forward profitability.
But I would say that the decision for purchasing the assets was based on our target ROE.
So it -- the ROE is in the range that we wanted it to be and I think that's the best way to do it best way to model it.
Research Division</strong> And should we assume that should additional opportunities arise you would be interested in expanding your presence in Europe within the railcar business? Or would you take a more measured approach because this acquisition I think adds about 10% to your railcar fleet.
So how should we think about your future plans there in Europe for the railcar business specifically? So I think the answer to that is if there were opportunities to expand that business we would look to do that.
This is an area that we see growth opportunities in.
And in the U.S.
we have been ordering new railcars but what today it -- there's -- the railcar manufacturers are sold out into the future.
And so this is an opportunity to add earning assets and get them on our books and earning faster than we could if we just ordered them in the U.S.
So if we saw opportunities in Europe we would certainly look at them.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick question on a different note.
In terms of the outlook for C&amp;I loans and growth you talked about some of the competitive pressures and volumes and the like.
But I was just trying to get a sense for your existing -- with your existing customers what are you seeing in terms of utilization rates? I mean the commentary from banks generally has been somewhat mixed.
Some bank's seeing an increase in their utilization rates others not.
So when you look at your existing customer base are you seeing them drawing down on commitments and utilization rates going up? Or do you think that that could potentially be another tailwind if the economy improves and then there's more of a need for them to draw down on commitments? So just a little commentary around utilization rates would be helpful.
Yes Sameer so I'd say the utilization on our asset-based lending hasn't changed for the last couple of years since we've been here.
So that is -- a potential opportunity is that people have the facilities in place to draw on that.
And our utilization is pretty low relative to some of your peer groups depending on the collateral on the receivables behind that.
So that if the economy goes that would probably be the -- one of the areas that those customers would go to to get capital quickly to reinvest in growth.
But we haven't seen any change and that would be something that would be an indicator for us in the portfolio that the manufacturing base is investing in growth.
Yes Sameer the other thing is as the economy improves that will provide I think greater degree of confidence on the part of middle-market companies.
And then the hope although we haven't seen it yet but the hope is that you would start to see more M&amp;A activity.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch at Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the Air portfolio you had some growth some deliveries in the fourth quarter.
Just kind of 2 things.
Number one is like would you expect kind of accelerated deliveries or sale-leasebacks in 2014 given all that's gone on in the industry? And also the yields on your total Transportation portfolio is probably around 9% now had been 10%-ish or a little higher so kind of where do you think that levels out? Maybe talk about that and I've got one quick follow-up after that.
Yes Sameer so the -- our order book...
Oh Moshe sorry.
Our order book for 2014 has already been kind of locked in.
So the scheduled deliveries are something that were placed many years ago.
So that will kind of come in.
We are looking at the sale-leaseback market.
We've talked about that.
And looking at where we might be able to add additional assets to our current order book in the sale-leaseback market.
So the pricing is commensurate with our return hurdles.
That's something that we're looking at very actively.
And so with respect to the yields and I think in general kind of the new delivery yields on aircraft are kind of in that range.
And then as we talked about on kind of some of the renewals it really is based on kind of the situation with respect to those.
But they're not -- they wouldn't be too far off from that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
The follow-up is you had some discussion before about M&amp;A and buyouts.
There was a journal article last week about how the regulators are kind of pressuring the banks on perhaps even as much as on specific transactions.
And I was just wondering if you're either feeling the same pressure? Or whether that represents an opportunity in the M&amp;A space? Yes I think those are on the large highly leveraged transactions.
And that's a space that we don't really play in the way that the big banks do because those are big deals.
Our middle-market space I think that's less of an issue.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim at Buckingham Research.
I'm wondering are there likely to be any additional expenses associated with the reorganization? Or are we seeing those already in the fourth quarter? Well we took the majority of the restructuring charge in the fourth quarter but there'll be some that trails into the first quarter.
But not at the same magnitude.
Okay.
And then could you just talk about the decision to consider selling the student loan portfolio now as opposed to before or later.
What's changed? It really was a combination of our continued capital management framework as well as looking at the market environment.
And we thought that based on the combination of those 2 items that the decision to move those in the fourth quarter was the correct decision.
Okay.
And could you give us any sense of the magnitude of those aircraft that you put in the bank? Magnitude from what perspective? Dollars.
Well we put 2 in there.
They were 737s.
Yes.
So they'd just be kind of in the -- kind of less than $100 million.
Okay.
New 737s? Yes the 737-800.
Okay.
And finally is there any -- can you give us any additional help on the -- that nice chart that you gave on I guess Slide 3 that shows the breakdown of the items in Q4 in terms of a per share impact with some of the things that are outside U.S.
and some are not? No.
I would say that the only thing that was outside really was some of the stuff related to the international platforms.
But most of the other stuff is U.S.-based.
The next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Scott can you just remind us once you achieve the accounting criteria that potentially result in a DTA allowance can you just remind us what that might mean for the 2015 tax rate? Yes.
So depending on -- so once we meet that primary test there's a bunch of other criteria and evidence that you have to evaluate with respect to the valuation allowance.
And so I'll just kind of give you hypothetical.
So depending on what decisions are made if nothing happens the tax rate will kind of stay as it is today where we put no provision up for U.S.
income taxes and then we provide for international taxes.
In the event that some are or all of the valuation allowance is not there then it's easier to say if it wasn't all there then you would have to provide for U.S.
tax return or tax expense as well as you would have the added international tax.
So the tax rate would be not just the 35% marginal.
It'd be that plus your international tax rate.
Then if it's a partial so it's going to be in between those 2.
So a partial would kind of determine based on the size of that change.
Does that help? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that does.
And just one follow-up.
Returning to OpEx for a moment I understand that the sort of target rate that you're attempting to achieve sort of by year-end but over the course of next year how do you envision your operating expenses relative to your longer-term guidance of 2% to 2.5%? Well our focus is to kind of get into the target range and then once you get inside the target range it will be a combination of mix of businesses.
So the Transportation business versus North America Commercial Finance business have different expense kind of parameters.
And then also would be in regards to potential for reinvestment and new growth initiatives.
And then as we just talked about earlier when you add on the railcar portfolio in Europe that will be another dynamic that we'll have to factor in.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the expenses for that will be evidenced in -- early in this year in regards to expenses? Once it closes then you'll see -- we'll have whatever partial quarter impact that we'll have.
The next question comes from Chris Kotowski at Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's small but I'm just curious.
The $5 million -- you had a $5 million debt redemption charge but we didn't actually see long-term debt go down.
It looked flat even through the quarter.
And I'm curious well a where -- what that was redeemed? And b presumably you did it because you thought it would be a benefit to future net interest income? And then c it's -- are there other liability opportunities like that? Or in terms of liability management should we be just thinking that the 2 debt maturities that are coming up over the next 15 months the $2.8 billion that's it in terms of your opportunity for liability management help on the net interest income side? Okay Chris.
Well that's a big question.
So let me take you through.
And so the amount that we did was actually unsecured debt and it related to moving our small business loans into held for sale.
And as we talked about we expect to sell those in the first quarter.
As part of that we extinguished that debt in order to sell the assets and that was the FSA associated with that secured debt.
In regards to going forward as we moved the assets into -- the student loan assets into held for sale as I mentioned the loan accretion moved in and we stopped-- we curtailed that going forward the debt that we have so the secured debt on that portfolio that mark FSA mark was not moved in based on the accounting.
So when that portfolio is sold we could have a loss FSA mark loss on that debt that could be kind of $20 million $30 million depending on timing.
And so that will be something we'll talk about if that portfolio is sold kind of sometime in the near future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of liability management to improve net interest income really it's the 2 debt maturities that's really...
Correct.
It's the 2 net debt maturities at the parent company.
And as I mentioned in the bank we're continuing to diversify our fundings but we also have a bias for issuing some longer-term CDs which will kind of mute some of the overall interest expense line.
But when it's matched up against the assets we're putting in it's a very good net margin impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you said the bank took delivery of 2 aircraft.
I believe when you announced the deal you said it was 14.
Do those 14 come in through a year over the next 7 years or does it come in quicker than that? You're talking about specifically within the bank? Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
Well not all those deliveries will go into banks.
Some of them will go into the bank as we've mentioned on the last call.
The next question comes from Bill Carcache at Nomura.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the adjusted finance margin.
Scott in looking at the trajectory from the fourth quarter of last year we've seen a gradual decline now to the point where we've hit the 4% level that you'd guided to.
And just in terms of thinking ahead to the potential trajectory from here you cited the pricing pressures and competition and the different factors that could lead that to move lower.
How much lower before below 4% could we go? And for how sustained a period could that be? And I guess is 4% still the right level to be thinking about kind of like as a longer-term level? I think the -- that's a good question Bill.
I think in the near term because of the debt maturities and the cash that we're holding I mentioned the impact of the student loans and the impact on the margin that will have.
I think the way I would think about it is based on the current environment that I think in the short-term we have some near-term pressure how long that sustains is really a matter of how the kind of the market changes during the year.
So I think at least in the near term more pressure and I think we'll continue to update you as we get further on how the market conditions change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then I have as a follow-up a broader strategic question for you John.
Recent segment reporting change raised a number of questions among investors.
One of the biggest ones that we guide was just the broader question of why can't the Transportation Finance business exist separately from your North American commercial finance business.
I was hoping that maybe perhaps you could talk about the strategic rationale of keeping those businesses together? And whether you'd be open to ever potentially considering a spinoff? Well so the simple answer is they obviously can exist separately because of -- they are both aircraft leasing companies that are publicly traded on their own and there's at least one publicly traded railcar leasing business.
So the first part of your question is they can exist separately.
We believe we get a significant advantage in terms of our consolidated funding of those businesses.
And in particular today almost all of our new railcars are going into the bank because they're being funded by the bank.
And so even as we've bought new railcars a significant portion of our total railcar fleet is now funded in the bank.
And as you heard we are -- we put 2 aircraft into the bank.
And so the bank is starting to finance aircraft.
We also make significant number of loans in the Transportation sector which also go into the bank.
And all of the new maritime loans have been originated by the bank.
So we think there is a significant benefit to having the Transportation businesses together with the bank.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
Perhaps if I could sneak in one last one on capital composition.
Your capital consists substantially of Tier 1 common equity.
Can you remind us what you're thinking from a capital optimization standpoint is it too early to expect any kind of action there? Yes Bill it's definitely too early.
I think the focus is to get down to our kind of capital total capital target.
Once we do that then we can optimize the difference between common equity and other forms of capital.
The next question comes from Cheryl Pate at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I had another question if we could turn back to capital for a moment and potential opportunities to redeploy some of the excess.
Number one could you maybe talk a little bit about the environment for portfolio purchases? Are there any particular areas that are more or less attractive? And then secondly potential opportunity to either buy or build retail branches or a bank? On the first one Cheryl each one of our businesses is constantly looking at ways to bolt on portfolios into their businesses.
And we look at that all the time.
And if the transaction meet our hurdles we go after those.
I would say that the level of activity is probably less than it has been in previous -- a year ago at least.
And so I think that one we continue to be looking at it.
And we'll -- if we're successful that would be very beneficial to our capital deployment.
With respect to the bank franchise again same kind of message is we're constantly looking to see which opportunities would be beneficial to our strategy and beneficial to building out our kind of deposit franchise in the bank.
And at this point we haven't found something that meets the criteria we're looking at.
But we are still continuing to look at opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second one for me.
You had an earlier comment Scott on diversifying funding sources that -- as one of the objectives in 2014.
Can you maybe just give us a little bit more color on that what you're thinking there specifically? I think a lot of it has to do with the bank.
So we're continuing to build out our capabilities that we have.
I mentioned that we did a securitization in the bank which again is another kind of funding source for the bank.
And as we build off the different asset classes we want to make sure we're able to match-fund each one of the assets that we have.
So we feel good about that.
Also in the fourth quarter I don't know if you saw but we did roll out our mobile banking for CIT Bank.
So if you happen to get a chance to look at that that would be -- so we will continue to build out our product offerings to our customers so that we can continue to grow that retail franchise also.
The next question comes from Daniel Furtado at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> First question is just you made a comment in the press release regarding some portfolio management activities in the Commercial Air that resulted in lower net spread revenue in the quarter.
What were those activities? That's the renewal activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then the second question...
On that one so there's 2 pieces Dan.
There's -- one is the -- what we talked about in regards to the impact around some of the renewals; and the second piece was as I mentioned last quarter that the level of asset sales and gain on sales in the Commercial Air have come down.
And we expect that trend to continue.
So those are 2 parts of the I think of the question.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the other question is simply how do we think about or what percent of your other income which I don't know that -- if we could tell comes from prepayment fees? I'm just kind of wondering what type of risk if any from potential slowdown of prepayments if the tenure continues to move higher? The prepayment it actually goes through the margin line.
So as we mentioned that was one of the things that was being elevated because those deferred fees are kind of amortized within the yield line over the term of the loan.
And if it's prepaid then those are accelerated and that will show up in the margin line not in the non-spread.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And about what -- how much does that represent in the margin line? As I've mentioned those were things that were elevated during 2013.
And as of the end of the year both the suspended depreciation and the benefits of those related fees has largely gone away.
The next question comes from Bryan Henry at Bank of America.
It's actually Brian Shinouly [ph] from Baloise Asset Management.
Quick question for you guys.
I'm curious as to the past with the rating agencies.
I mean you're still BB- you're a positive watch at one of the agencies.
And what thresholds or what milestones you believe you need to hit in order to get to a better ratings profile? And how you view balancing that with the distributions to equity both in the form of dividends and share buybacks and how you're looking at that? Yes what I would say is that we continue to have constructive dialogues with all of our rating agencies.
And I think we're being recognized for the improvements that we're making.
I wouldn't say that there's any item that we haven't talked about before that kind of are some of the criteria.
We've continued to build out the bank both from a funding and asset perspective.
Two is around our core franchises.
We've continued to build our core franchises.
We have reduced significantly our cost of funds and our underwriting credit discipline has been solid.
So I think those are kind of the items in regards to when the change in the ratings will happen is kind of dependent on their processes.
But what we do feel good about is if you look at kind of the -- our bond trading our fixed-income investors have rewarded us for the progress we've made.
And what we'd like to do is get our ratings commensurate with kind of the fixed-income investors.
So that we can broaden our -- once we get closer to investment-grade it just opens up a broader array of investors and products that we can issue at the bank holding company.
Yes and let me just add that based upon our level of capital as well as our earnings the capital returns should not be a concern at all to the rating agencies.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations for any closing remarks.
Thank you Amy.
We thank you all for joining us this morning and please join me in wishing Ken the best of luck in his new role.
And as a reminder our next Investor Day will be on June 25 in New York City and we will be sending out a save-a-date for the event shortly.
In the meantime I'm looking forward to working with all of you.
And if you have any follow-up questions please call me or Raul in Investor Relations and we will be happy to answer them.
Thank you very much.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Emily and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2013 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Before we get into the call I want to remind everyone that as a result of our realignment the first quarter results are being presented per the new segment structure.
As you can see on Page 2 of our presentation the 3 new segments are North American Commercial Finance Transportation &amp; International Finance and Non-Strategic Portfolios.
In addition our data supplement includes the historical trends and profitabilities of these segments which along with other information on CIT can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'll now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for being on the call.
This is a disappointing quarter from an earnings point of view with net income of $109 million.
Our net finance margin was down both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year and our non-spread revenue was down quarter-over-quarter.
But despite that our core businesses remain strong.
We generated $2.5 billion of funded volume in the quarter.
Our finance and leasing assets grew 11% year-over-year and the newly-originated volume continues to hit our economic capital return targets and we believe continues to produce an attractive return versus the risk that we're taking.
Our commercial aircraft were 99% utilized and our railcars were 98% utilized.
Our Corporate Finance business our real estate finance and our maritime finance assets all grew quarter-over-quarter.
And our Rail asset growth included the acquisition of Nacco in Europe and expanded our railcar business into the European marketplace.
The credit quality of our portfolio remains stable and both our capital and liquidity remain strong.
We returned capital to our shareholders through both dividends and share buybacks and we announced an additional $300 million of repurchase authorization.
CIT Bank continues to grow.
It now finances over 40% of our commercial assets and now includes 2 aircraft.
We continue to make progress selling our nonstrategic assets and we continue to focus on expenses.
Our headcount is down 8% year-over-year.
As I look out over the remainder of 2014 we expect both the U.S.
and European economies to improve barring some geopolitical shock but we also expect to see continued margin pressure in certain sectors of our business.
And I'll now turn it over to Scott to expand on these comments.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
As John just mentioned we reported net income of $109 million or $0.55 a share.
While we continue to make progress on our priorities and building our franchises our financial results this quarter reflected yield compression across our business and higher credit costs.
Here are some highlights for the quarter: Assets on our core segments grew 4% sequentially and 11% from a year ago.
We expanded our Rail franchise into Europe with the acquisition of Nacco.
We made good progress reducing the size of our Non-Strategic Portfolios including the sale of our student loan business that was completed last week.
And we repurchased 3 million shares in the first quarter and an additional 1.5 million shares in April bringing our year-to-date repurchases to $200 million.
John also mentioned that the board authorized a $300 million increase in our share repurchase program bringing the total authorization to $607 million.
Turning to our operating segments Transportation &amp; International Finance reported $118 million of pretax income.
Assets grew over $1 billion sequentially to almost $18 billion including $650 million from the European rail acquisition and growth across the Transportation businesses.
Our volume was $1.1 billion which included aircraft purchases of $450 million railcar purchases of $200 million and over $400 million of secured lending.
Now we have more than $3 billion of our Transportation assets in CIT Bank generating attractive margins.
Our Maritime assets are up over $500 million up from about $300 million a year ago reflecting good progress building this business.
And our ability to offer both loan and lease products gives us a competitive advantage to structure transactions to meet our customer needs.
Equipment utilization remains solid in both air and rail.
The air team has done a great job staying ahead of a relatively heavy lease exploration schedule in 2014 as about 75% of this year's explorations already have commitments.
That said remarketing and transition costs which are recorded in maintenance and other operating lease expenses will be slightly higher for the next few quarters.
We have a combined $10 billion order book and all our scheduled deliveries over the next 12 months are placed.
The Rail leasing platform we acquired this quarter provides a foundation to expand our franchise into Europe.
The integration is moving along and we are seeing early success as the new team recently won a large deal with a new customer.
We expect this acquisition to be slightly accretive to earnings this year inclusive of integration costs and infrastructure investments as we build this growth platform.
Moving to our North American Commercial Finance segment we've reported $43 million of pretax income.
Assets grew over 1% sequentially and 6% from a year ago to over $15 billion and over 70% of this portfolio is in CIT Bank.
We originated about $1.4 billion of loans and leases this quarter while maintaining our disciplined approach to underwriting transactions that provide the appropriate risk-adjusted margins.
Middle-market loan volume decreased by over 10% from both a year ago and prior quarters primarily due to lower middle-market M&amp;A activity.
While the competitive environment has put pressure on pricing and leverage for the past few quarters we are seeing some signs that deal terms have stabilized.
Despite these market trends Corporate Finance assets grew 3% sequentially and 6% from a year ago.
We continue to strengthen relationships with private equity sponsors and companies in our target industries including energy and healthcare to drive lead agency positions.
We have grown our commercial real estate portfolio to about $1.6 billion as we expand relationships with our existing developers and sponsors beyond the Northeast.
An improving economy should also result in increased lending opportunities for new construction projects and redevelopment of existing properties.
Overall we see good opportunity to grow this segment by leveraging our product and industry knowledge to deliver integrated financial solutions to our customers.
We continue to make progress reducing the Non-Strategic Portfolios and we have exited all our subscale countries in Asia and several in Latin America and Europe.
Last week we sold the remaining $3.3 billion student loan business which triggers discontinued operations reporting in the second quarter in which we expect to recognize a gain of over $50 million.
In addition we are on track to close the sale of the $0.5 billion SBL portfolio later in the second quarter subject to regulatory approval.
With these transactions behind us our focus is on exiting the remaining countries in Europe and Latin America.
While it's taken longer than expected our objective is to complete these exits by the end of 2014.
Now I'd like to turn to the consolidated results.
Net finance revenue declined $13 million sequentially driven by $10 million related to the suspended FSA interest accretion on student loans $13 million of higher maintenance and other operating lease expenses on transportation equipment and $4 million of higher interest expense.
These items were partially offset by higher revenue on increased earning assets.
In the second quarter our recent debt actions will reduce interest expense by about $10 million.
However we expect overall net finance revenue to decline slightly due to the continued pricing pressures and higher operating lease expense.
Looking at other income it decreased $54 million from the prior quarter.
As you know in the fourth quarter we had net benefits from several items that totaled $43 million which accounted for the majority of the decline.
The remaining $11 million decline was driven by lower fee income foreign currency losses due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and the recognition of CTA related to country exits.
We expect other income to remain around this quarter's level.
Turning to operating expense.
Excluding restructuring charges and the fourth quarter tax agreement settlement operating expenses were up slightly primarily due to the annual restart of employee benefits and the costs associated with the European rail acquisition.
Over the past year we have made progress on various expense initiatives and reduced our headcount by almost 300 which lowered our compensation cost this quarter.
However the annual restart of employee benefits and costs associated with curtailing some legacy pension plans more than offset the lower headcount.
We remain focused on improving our expense ratios through a combination of cost reductions and operating leverage.
The primary driver of our cost reductions will be the exit of our Non-Strategic Portfolios which will eliminate about $15 million of quarterly expenses once completed.
While our credit metrics remain at cyclical lows the loss provision was higher relative to prior periods.
The increase reflected higher nonspecific reserves on new business volume a loss on a client account in our international portfolio and lower recoveries.
Given our credit metrics we expect the provision to return to levels more in line with the past few quarters.
However individual losses and recoveries could impact the quarterly trend.
Now I'd like to turn to funding and liquidity.
It's been our objective to repay 2.8 -- the $2.8 billion of debt maturities in 2014 and 2015 through a combination of cash generated the holding company including proceeds from asset sales and new unsecured debt issuances.
Over the last few quarters we have issued $1.75 billion of unsecured debt.
This includes the $1 billion 5-year bond we issued earlier this quarter taking advantage of the strong market demand resulting in a coupon of 3.78%.
On April 1 we repaid the $1.3 billion debt maturity that had a coupon of 5.25%.
And our next maturity is February of 2015 which is a $1.5 billion bond with a coupon of 4.75%.
Additionally we grew deposits to over $13 billion in line with our asset growth and maturity profile in CIT Bank.
Although our earnings decline this quarter we continue to make progress positioning our franchises for growth and improved profitability.
With the sale of the student loan business in April CIT Bank assets and deposits now are over 40% of our commercial assets and funding mix.
We have made significant progress returning capital to shareholders this year and the sale of the student loan business provided us an opportunity to increase our share repurchase authorization.
And as John mentioned we continue to have strong capital liquidity and credit metrics.
As I mentioned on the last earnings call our leadership team will provide more details on our strategy at the Investor Day on June 25 in New York City.
With that I'll turn it back over to Emily and we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> With the expansion of the repurchase authorization it looks like the payout including the dividend for 2014 is now in excess of 85% maybe even higher we factor in this quarter's results.
Should we expect that that will be it for 2014 or is there a potential to push that even higher later in the year? As we've talked about Mark we -- this one that we just authorized was really kind of in conjunction with the transaction with the student loan business but we continue to evaluate our capital planning and we'll continue to update you on progress around that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just a follow-up why was the gain on sale of leasing equipment down so much both quarter-over-quarter and year-on-year? Well as you know in the fourth quarter some of that was the leveraged lease in the fourth quarter that was kind of a historical transaction that was in there.
Most of the activity that flows through that line would be our end of term income that we get on our Vendor business the old vendor business Equipment Finance and also on the -- on our aircraft and railcar business.
And what I'd say is as we mentioned last year we have kind of like the portfolio we have in the transportation side and we expect to have lower gain on sale and asset sales for that portfolio going forward at least based on what we know today.
Our next version is from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Both John and Scott you kind of talked a bit about continued margin pressure and yet you'd also talk about positive operating leverage.
So I guess those 2 sort of don't go together.
So can you -- is there a point at which you think the margin stabilizes? And so how do we think about the kind of the revenue outlook? It sounds like into Q2 you probably still going to have -- you're not going to be achieving that positive operating leverage.
So what is -- how does that -- can you kind of flesh that out a little bit? I think Moshe I think a lot of that relates to kind of the Non-Strategic Portfolio.
As we broke that out you see we have a significant amount of assets the cost associated and the profitability of those are subpar.
So that's why we've been focused on exiting those items.
And if you look at the -- what we broke out on the operating lease expense given the higher level of remarketing in the portfolio that's something we have to work through over the next couple of quarters.
It just happens to be an elevated level.
But as you play through that you see that the Commercial Air portfolio the yields are fine and this is kind of the transition cost of having that many aircraft kind of being remarketed.
So I do think we'll get the operating leverage as you look at kind of the core business after the Non-Strategic Portfolios.
And the other place that we get the operating leverage is just being able to grow the assets and maintain the current expense structure.
And so we do -- we continue even in this quarter we grew the assets significantly and we would expect that to continue.
Our next question is from Brad Ball of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Hey Scott.
What were the moving parts again in the lower net finance margin guidance for the second quarter? I know you've got the debt actions that you've taken that will help but what were the negatives that you highlighted? What I said is we expect the net finance margin to be slightly down.
So the drivers there will get the benefit from the debt repayment that's partially offset by we only had a partial quarter of $1 billion debt that we issued in the first quarter.
And then it's really the continued higher operating lease cost that we have on the remarketing of the aircraft.
And we continue as John mentioned the new business that's coming on the books versus the portfolio that is refinancing is lower so you're going to get some of that compression.
With the exception of the railcar business.
In our railcar business the new leases are going on -- are going on at higher yields.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you expand on the comment you made about competitive pressures on pricing in terms in the stabilization that you're beginning to see? What is the dynamic there? I think it's -- I don't know if it's a trend Brad.
But I think we've seen in the last month or so that there's been a little bit opportunity for flexing up versus what we've seen in the past.
And just we hope that that's a positive trend going forward.
That some of the pricing pressure and the leverage pressure that's been because of liquidity may be kind of stabilizing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so no pressure on the net finance margin or incremental pressure from more pricing yield declines? If this trend continues then that would only be Brad really we're talking about kind of the core Corporate Finance business.
Our next question is from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you guys could touch on your normalized guidance for pretax -- normalized pretax income in that 2 to 2.5 range given where we stand today is that still intact? Bill this is Scott.
So I will answer it 2 ways: One with the sale of the student loan business I mentioned that that will go to discontinued operations in the second quarter.
So I think when I -- when we get to the investor meeting I need to kind of lay out the impact of that because you're going to move historically all the margin and the financials below the line.
So the targets we have will kind of have to be modified for that.
But in general I would say it's harder to do apples to apples but we still are focused on getting our pretax ROA at the lower end of that range given the current market environment.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But wouldn't student loan business be considered a lower margin business relative to your core middle-market commercial lending businesses and therefore wouldn't -- shouldn't that have a favorable impact? It will have a favorable impact on the margin but I -- you asked me on the pretax ROA.
So if you look at historically on the there was profitability in the student loan portfolio.
So on margin yes it's up.
But if you asked me on pretax it will have an impact and I'm not saying it's going to be -- it depends on the historical nature of that but we think that our focus is to be at the low end given the current market environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then lastly can you touch on the -- share your current thinking on the recapture of the DTA potentially by the end of the year and to the extent that maybe you could give quantify any potential book value impact.
That would be helpful.
Yes Bill.
There's not much change from the fourth quarter in the sense that we still expect based on current trends that that would be at the end of 2014.
And I can't give you an amount of what that potential impact would be as in until we kind of get through the analysis that's required as part of meeting some of the triggers I pointed out in the fourth quarter.
And I'll continue to give you updates as we learn more.
But that's about the best I can do for you at this time.
Our next question is from Eric Wasswerstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify some of the other comments that have been made before.
Did the long-term financial targets that you had laid out 12 or 18 months ago those were all inclusive of the profitability of the student or in the overall dynamics of the student loan portfolios? Is that -- did I understand that correctly? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so just maybe just to follow-up and I understand that a lot of this will be addressed next month.
But the NIM guidance for down slightly does the bottom end of the range that you previously highlighted does that still hold? Yes so you're going to have some moving parts in that Eric just because of the movement -- you're going to have the student loan and we expect the small business loan -- business to also that portfolio to exit.
So if you look it will be in that range on the percentage basis.
And the reason why I provided more on the dollar side is to make sure that it helps you in regards to looking out for the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just finally very quickly did I understand Scott that your expectation from the exit of the various non-quarter assets is a quarterly run rate improvement and operating expense of $15 million? Yes it's an estimate that I kind of feel pretty good about.
If you look at the quarter the operating expense for that segment's a little bit higher.
So there are some indirect allocations or overhead allocations that we have in the segment that won't go away.
But if you look at the direct costs we think that's roughly around $15 million a quarter as we get out of the portfolios.
Our next question is from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on credit.
Scott if I heard you correctly I think you said provisioning was a little bit elevated and maybe comes down a bit going forward but it can bounce around a little bit.
But if I look at your charge-offs this quarter and if I kind of add them back to your non-accrual loans it looks like nonaccruals on that basis would be flat to up slightly compared to the end of the year.
So should we look at that and kind of say that this is really maybe a bit of an inflection point and then we see charge-offs rising from here.
I mean I guess another way of asking is what gives you comfort that charge-offs still stay relatively low because when you made that adjustment it looks like charge-offs could rise.
So is that the wrong way of looking at it or can you just talk of what you're thinking around credit quality charge-offs and provisioning a little more.
Yes Sameer.
I wouldn't link the charge-off gross charge-up off because the non-accruals.
The non-accrual trend is moving the right direction.
I just need to call off on the charge-off line we moved another portfolio into our Non-Strategic Portfolio in the quarter.
And when we do that you see -- you saw that in the fourth quarter also.
So we had about 2/3 of the increase and the gross charge-offs was driven by that portfolio move.
So what happened is you charge-offs the specific and nonspecific reserves.
So net is not an impact on the provision but it will show the elevated gross charge-offs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then portfolio move into the charge-offs that was at the SBA or something else? No it's one of our international platforms that we moved into Non-Strategic Portfolios.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then that's helpful.
And then just kind of stepping back a little bit and thinking about total assets of $48.6 billion then you subtract from that the student loan held for sale subsequently sold in Q2.
So that comes down a it but you then factor in some growth and then you talked about in the past may be looking at acquiring a bank.
I mean how do you think about the fact that you could go above $50 billion and you could be subject to the CCAR at some point if you do that.
I mean is that something that you think you're prepared for now? Is that something that factors into your calculation as you think about acquisitions and specifically that of the bank how do you think about that? I think the way to think about it is it's-- we're mindful of the $50 billion level but we want to do the right thing to build franchise and shareholder value.
So if that means that's more the priority for us Sameer.
When you do get that do we feel that we're ready I would say that we feel good about that.
Would there be additional cost and activities as you see with some of the other regional banks that kind of are going through that process.
Sure there will be some additional costs that we wouldn't entail.
From -- at least from a capital and a CCAR point of view I think we made a big investment in that couple of years ago.
So we would say that we feel pretty good about that but there is a lot of increased reporting and data that is required as being part of over the $50 billion threshold.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just lastly.
Looking at the quarter's numbers let's say you adjust for that $0.05 roughly of nonrecurring charges that's a restructuring charges and we pegged the number at $0.60.
And you talked about a number of different items the margin dynamics OpEx.
It seems like the number could be higher than what you reported let's say $0.60 number.
But it still seems like it's a little bit of a stretch to get back to where I think the consensus was and where we were roughly around $0.87 $0.88 or so.
So it's that the right way to think about it? I mean do you think you can get back up to that level on a sustainable basis as you kind of parse out the moving parts and look out the next few quarters.
Sameer.
I guess the way I'd answer that is we talked a little bit about where we are on the margin side.
On the credit side we said that we feel we'll probably go back to kind of some of the prior quarter provision barring kind of any one -- kind of unusual items.
So it really comes down to the other income line.
So I think that's really the big difference that in regards to the analyst expectations out there.
And my sense would be is in the capital market side of our Corporate Finance business the market as you saw fees were down quarter-on-quarter.
They were up year-over-year.
the marketplace I mentioned some of the stability on the pricing and leverage.
But there also is less underwrites and capital markets fees currently in the marketplace.
So our hope would be is that with increased activity with the economic growth that John mentioned that could be an upside going forward.
And we will have aircraft sales as part of our normal portfolio management.
And depending on the aircraft type and the market there could be gains on sales for that.
But I wouldn't think that it's going to get higher than kind of the ranges that we put.
We kind of mentioned that we're kind of in around 100 basis points.
We're at 84 basis points in the first quarter.
But that's probably more the norm then it's going to be unless there's a change in the market environment.
Our next question is from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I'm still trying to parse this out but in looking at the increase in net charge-offs and provision a lot of it correct me if I'm wrong.
You had strong recoveries in the North American business and then you had losses again.
Is that a pattern that we're likely to see quarter-to-quarter sort of a lumpiness there? Or should we begin to think of the current charge-off ratio is kind of the new normal? No Henry.
As I mentioned I think on the gross charge-offs part of it was driven by -- 2/3 of that was driven just by a portfolio that we moved into held for sale.
So that's something that is not doing that.
We have seen lower recoveries.
And as you know in our business we will have a little bit of lumpiness in the Corporate Finance business both on the recovery side as well as on charge-offs if a individual company is impacted.
But if you look at the trends that we've had for the last few quarters we think that's probably more indicative of the current credit metrics we have in the credit environment.
Research Division</strong> And sort of a similar question on margin.
It -- well first on the portfolio held for sale where was that impact seen was that in the North American Commercial Finance business or did that show up -- when you do that where does it get picked up? It's in the Non-Strategic Portfolio.
Research Division</strong> So that was the increase? It's one of the platforms that we will be exiting.
Research Division</strong> And then in very simple terms margin somewhat under pressure.
Credit will bounce around but obviously it's a pretty low measure.
To make a meaningful 10% ROE basically you have to earn something like $1.10 a share.
And if you look at where you are to where you need to be what are the items in the equation that you can tweak? And about how long do you think it takes us to get there? Henry I'd say that the thesis is continuing to grow the business.
So as we talk about the asset growth has -- was very good in the quarter and year-over-year we did the railcar acquisition.
We have a strong order book both in the rail and the air that will put those earning assets on.
And as those come on you will see that it will help offset some of the current pricing pressure in the marketplace.
I think the other pieces as we exit the Non-Strategic Portfolios that will provide an opportunity to get our expenses more in line with where we want them to be.
And I think the last piece is we're -- as we've talked about in the debt maturity we're holding the cash.
So if you look at our cash balance at the bank holding company of about $3 billion at the bank holding company $1.5 billion of that is waiting to pay down the debt kind of in February.
So as you get through early next year our cash levels will kind of decrease and we'll be able to pay off that debt item that will provide us some runway next year to offset some of the current pressure.
Our next question is from Eric Beardsley of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> As we look at your mix of business roughly 50% today is in Transportation assets.
As we think about the growth moving forward do you think that ratio of transportation to the total book will stay similar? I mean it seems like you guys are becoming more of a transportation business overall.
And if you just comment on how you feel like that fits into a bank holding company strategically? Yes so I would say that yes the transportation business has grown well over the last kind of couple of years.
As we've talked about we'll break that down because there's multiple pieces of that.
So if you look at the Commercial Air portfolio the lending part of the Commercial Air is originated in the bank.
And those assets outside the bank we feel we have attractive financing both in the unsecured market the secured market in ECA and XM financing.
On the railcar business which has grown through some of the new orders that we put in on assets that are going into the energy sector and are very attractive.
And what we've talked about is we have about 25% of that portfolio that's currently in the bank.
So all the new assets are going in the bank and are very very good margin business.
The Maritime business that we kind of launched relaunched about a year ago is doing very well.
And all those assets again are also going into the bank and the last piece that's not in the bank would be the International portfolios within the Transportation business.
So we feel that these are very good franchises.
We have great expertise and the risk-adjusted margins even with the capital provide the target returns that we're looking for.
Since those tend to be a little bit larger kind of per ticket item they grow a little bit faster than some of the asset classes in the North America Commercial Finance segment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And as we look out at M&amp;A opportunities and loan portfolio growth I mean how's that shaping up or are you guys looking at more acquisitions now or are there more opportunities out there than there were over the past couple of quarters? I hope there's more.
We continue to look.
There are opportunities.
On the portfolio side less so.
I think on the portfolios I think you'll see more like we've been doing portfolios are nonstrategic that one party may be something strategic to another party.
So we continue to look for opportunities to grow through portfolios.
That one it's really a matter of price discipline.
And then when it comes to M&amp;A type activity it's the same kind of dynamic right now.
If there are activities -- if there are things out there that tends to be a lot of potential people looking at those transactions.
So we're going to stay discipline and make sure that they meet our return hurdles for the long-term.
Research Division</strong> Where would you guys like to grow in terms of specific asset classes? Is it trying to where where you feel like you're not large enough now and you up some scale? I think we want to definitely given our net operating loss in the U.S.
looking at the U.S.
marketplace in regards to all the core franchises we have.
We think there's opportunity to grow each one of our kind of businesses in the North America Commercial Finance business and that's one of the things that we'll both be able to leverage the net operating loss as well as grow the franchise.
Our next question is from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
Could you just remind us what you have coming the remainder of this year in aircraft and railcar deliveries? And then could you also comment on what's the impact might be on your railcar business if there are new regulations requiring I guess thicker and heavier tankers to protect against accidents? You have new deliveries coming kind of new safer cars or? Yes David.
So I'll start with that one and then work back to the other one.
My sense would be is on the railcar side we are definitely safety first and focused on what the industry changes might be.
We'll be supportive and move along that path.
All I'd say on that one is that with those standards are not kind of out there but we have most of our tank cars have been purchased recently from 2011 and on.
And so that's kind of from our perspective what changes need to be made will be part of something we'll speak to you about.
With respect to the railcar the railcar has kind of been coming in on a stable basis kind of somewhere in the $150 million to $200 million a quarter.
So that will kind of continue on.
And on the aircraft side we have a heavier placement in the next 2 quarters versus the end-of-the-year.
So second quarter is going to be the from a dollar -- from a number point of view we have more deliveries in the second quarter and then the third quarter decreases a little bit and fourth quarter we don't have a lot of deliveries.
And in terms of dollars? I don't have that off the top of my head David.
So I'll just -- we can follow that.
Barb will follow-up with you.
Okay.
And then could you just revisit again what you're saying about the credit costs and provisions.
So I look at the sequential increase in North American Commercial Finance just what was in the increase in charge-offs from Q4 again there? So charge-offs would be a combination on that one in North America was an account that was charged-off that had a previous reserve on it.
So you would have saw that but in general the provision was for new business new business volume and the mix of the portfolio.
And as we mentioned lower recoveries also is coming through on the North American Commercial Finance side.
And our next question comes from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> You've been highlighting for the last couple of years about the growth in the banks in the bank and that you're able to originate new assets in the bank and fund them with deposits and not long-term debt.
And it just seems to me that given that the bank has gone from essentially nothing to $13 billion in deposits that there should have been room to lower your debt footprint more than it has been.
And I thought a number of quarters ago you'd said that that was a goal.
But I look at it on year-over-year basis year your unsecured debt is up $1.7 billion.
And if we think about the $1.3 billion debt maturity that you had in March you did a $750 million offering in August and $1 billion in February.
So you actually over the last 8 months 9 months you added $450 million to your debt footprint rather than decreasing it.
So is that just not part of the game plan to decrease your debt footprint? I don't think so Chris I mean I think part of it when you go to market you kind of have to look at what the opportunities are for the long haul because last year we issued a very long-term debt instrument and this recent one we did a 5 year.
So I think it is a matter of timing right.
So we've issued $1.75 billion.
We have $2.8 billion.
The debt maturity actually was in April 1 so it doesn't show up in kind of the quarterly numbers you have.
It happened on the next day.
And so where we are today is the cash liquidity we hold at the bank holding company is both for that debt maturity in February of 2015 as well as our normal liquidity planning to support the business growth.
And then from that point of view we also did purchase Nacco.
So part we had to fund part of that Nacco acquisition at the parent company not the complete amount.
So our viewpoint is we're going keep building the business.
If you look at it you'll see a rotation and with regards to the overall where the debt and deposit growth.
But it's not going to be a quarter-to-quarter thing.
I think we have to look at the longer-term horizon given kind of the size of those maturities that we're kind of addressing.
And we're going to have a little bit of negative carry.
But I'd rather do that than have to be kind of subject to the capital markets at the time that you'd want to do it to get a little bit closer to the maturity date.
Let me just add though also that we are growing our assets our commercial assets.
And although we're originating as much as we can in the bank still the significant portion of our aircraft deliveries are not going in the bank and so those have to be funded at the parent level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess I mean look -- if I look at the asset side of the balance sheet between the cash the investment securities and assets held for sale there's almost $13.5 billion there.
It just seems to me that that would have afforded you some liquidity to meet the debt maturities.
Well Chris.
The largest one that we just talked about was the student loan portfolio.
So as you know that was mainly secured debt.
So the cash that we freed up from that transaction was a -- was what we are returning in regards to the increase of the $300 million authorization.
So that one is kind of how we're redeploying the cash from that transaction.
Our next question is from Cheryl Pate at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on Chris' question.
I guess when we sort of think about the deposit mix over time as more assets are funded through the bank and now with some aircraft funded there too.
And working down some of the international portfolios that couldn't go through the bank.
Is there any reason that the deposit mix which I think has been targeted around 40% couldn't go significantly higher over time? I mean I understand that the securitization market remains a attractive way to fund some parts of the business.
But sort of thinking forward more to having some other deposits perhaps replace some of the unsecured funding over the longer term? Definitely Cheryl.
I think you'll see that so we just call out just with the taking -- selling the student loan book and having that secured debt out of the overall mix.
And then we have the debt maturity.
It was paid down in April.
And we get to the next debt maturity.
The debt -- the secured debt or the unsecured debt is kind of out there already.
So all the actions we do from now to then will show that the deposit percentage will continue to increase as a portion of our overall funding.
But we are going to grow the deposits more in line with the asset growth.
So we're not -- it's not something where we can have it -- the cash upstream from the bank is really predicated on the earnings of the bank not based on kind of the cash at the bank.
So yes you will see that transition.
We're not holding back the percentage of deposits.
It just happens to be how the portfolio and the asset growth happens.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you maybe just update on your most current thoughts around buying or building a retail branch network? Yes it's something that we continue to look at relative to other alternatives.
We've been able to grow our deposits very nicely over the last couple of years.
We continue to add new product offerings.
But we do over the foreseeable future we would like to have a portion of our funding mix in some kind of core retail deposits.
So that's really based on market opportunity and the different capabilities that those branch or retail deposits could provide for us.
Our next question is from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I want to just circle back to the margin just for a second.
As I understand it you had the debt maturity on April 1.
So that large cash balance helps pay down that debt.
The student loan portfolio is now closed by rough math I get like a 30 basis point NIM benefit just from selling that -- those student loans.
So I'm a little confused why we won't see the margin in the second quarter in particular start to go back up just given those 2 dynamics and what's the offset? Well as I mentioned on the piece I did called out the fact that we will see an improvement in the interest expense.
And that driver is really the elevated operating lease expense as we work through the remarketing of our aircraft portfolio.
And we also will have the continued kind of new business is coming on at a lower rate then that is refinancing.
So that margin compression plus the operating lease will offset the benefit from the funding cost improvement.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and on that margin compression Scott I think we've talked about in the past or at least on some of these conference calls some just rough guidance on what the new business margins look like.
I think I have a pretty good handle on the Transportation side.
But on the Corporate Finance side if you're funding it in the bank is it sub 3% now or is it gotten that bad? Or is it still north of 3% and sometimes 4%? And just competitively with the new segments which are actually quite helpful can you just talk about the Commercial Finance business I'm sorry the Corporate Finance business and what kind of prepayment levels you're seeing? Has that accelerated? I wasn't quite able to sort it myself yet.
Yes.
So I'll start with the last of questions.
So we did see a slowdown in prepayments in the first quarter.
But as you know that's every -- that depends on the particular assets that we're in.
So in the fourth quarter we actually had a higher level.
So it has been up and down quarter-to-quarter.
So that's one thing that if that trend continues that will improve our asset growth within the business.
I think that's kind of the core thing.
When you look at the margins of the business that we're doing in the bank I still think we're kind of in that that range that you mentioned relative to the overall yields of the North American Commercial Finance business.
And a lot of the noise that you see and the trends that we provided in the supplement really has been things that we've called out on the earnings call before.
Last year we had some of the prepayment fees.
We had some of the interest recoveries.
And also we had some loan smaller amounts of loan FSA that was still remaining on the portfolio.
So as we kind of go forward it's really just a matter of the new business volume and the pricing on that relative to the assets that are refinancing and going away running off the portfolio.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
So I guess more broader of a question.
My last question.
I think you've -- it's clearly expressed in the past a desire to be conservative when it comes to capital and liquidity.
I think some of us was really hoping that we could refinance the first quarter debt maturity [ph] net of deposits in cash and not continue to access market but the pricing you got on that 5-year paper is certainly very attractive and makes a lot of sense.
I'm just wondering just given the difficulty from a macro standpoint with all the liquidity and the refis and the difficulty of getting spread and ultimately growing your business and your earnings.
How much pressure do you feel or how much patience does your board have in taking a very conservative approach and continuing to hold lots of excess capital and liquidity and cash in their balance sheet rather than starting to really drive earnings growth and then ultimately higher ROEs.
I mean do we -- is 2014 still only a year removed from the formal agreements so we're going to continue to be very conservative or is there a way that you could sort of layout maybe at the Investor Day a plan to really to improve the returns here.
Because I think we've been waiting for the stocks to trade more on earnings for a while now and with these results it seems like it's going to be a lot longer away.
On the question about laying out that framework it will be something I will lay out in Investor Day given some of these transactions behind us kind of try and I know it.
We'd like to get to more not having these items flowing through the financial statements especially the student loans will be something that on your side as well as on our side.
But it is something we have to kind of do.
My sense would be is that we continue to focus on improving the profitability and the returns of our businesses.
I think on the capital actions I think we have been -- we've made very good progress over the last year.
If you look at the actions we've taken and I think that's a positive momentum.
We start off with a 200 share repurchase.
We implemented a dividend at the end of the year in the third -- in the fourth quarter.
We had a 300 authorization in January and in April we have another 300.
So I think we're making progress on the capital side.
The asset growth has been very good so we continue and invest in the franchise and I think the piece that we're working through is we had some assets we determined did not fit our business model and did not fit our return expectations and so we're have to kind of have that headwind of those discontinued operations and the -- from the student loans as well as the other Non-Strategic Portfolios.
So it's not lost on us it's kind of the focus that we have.
And the question would be is is it kind of fast enough? I think we've made steady progress.
Yes let me just add.
I think that we are less than 12 months from getting out of our written agreement and the idea is that we have $800 million of share repurchase authorized in that timeframe and then plus the dividend.
I think we are very aware of the need to return capital to our shareholders and to improve our ROEs and I would say that we're doing that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I would agree.
And I just think it's maybe 2014 clearing the decks we hope we'll see better returns in 2015.
Our next question is from Dan Furtado of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> The first is just on this discontinued operations business and the student loans.
How should we think about the impact to income and expenses in the next quarter or so because of this? Well when they goes to discontinued operations most of our metrics will be on the continuing business.
So it was a large asset base but the costs were fairly modest because we had outsourced and had servicing done by third parties.
So it will be a little bit of an expense move on that one but mainly it's going to be the asset balance is going to drop.
So that will be the impact of the student loans.
When you look at when we exit the small business loan portfolio you will see more OpEx reductions on that but there also be some loss revenue in both the finance margin as well as well as in other income that we'll have to play through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess another way to think about that is that the pretax profitability or the loss before provision for income taxes would be lower this quarter without those 2 businesses than otherwise was printed? The dollar amounts would be down slightly.
I think on the percentage basis since they're lower returning assets I think it's going to be the inverse.
Research Division</strong> No no that's fine.
I was just trying to get from an EPS perspective of the impact of these moves.
As you say there is a minimal impact on pretax income.
It's just more of then what we'll have is left in the Non-Strategic Portfolio would be over $500 million of assets that are losing money.
So both the student loan and the small business loans are actually profitable.
The other operations are not.
So that would be the impact.
You have slight impact on pretax but it's not going to be material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then what about FSA accretion this quarter versus last? Most of the FSA was related to the student loans.
And now with the sale we will accelerate all the debt FSA that we used to have as well as any of the loan FSA that we had on that portfolio will all be gone.
And the net of all that was a $50 million gain.
So that will all kind of take place and the only real remaining FSA that we'll have on the portfolio is what we've talked about on our operating lease business that is a reduction of depreciation that will decline over time.
But it's something that will be out there for the next 10 years.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then my last question if I may.
Is just where are the -- what is the net finance or about the finance margin that you're originating at today or your bogey for today? Well it's different between the 2 segments based on the economic capital.
So we're looking at trying to get new business on at kind of low double-digit ROE.
So for each business as you know the transportation has a little bit higher capital.
So you need a higher margin than you would on the North American Commercial Finance business.
But we're focused on ROE kind of target for each one of our business segments.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you this morning for joining us.
And if you have any remaining questions feel free to give the Investor Relations team a call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Drew and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session later in the call.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you and good morning and welcome to our CIT's conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Scott Parker our CFO who will first review the quarters result and then discuss the OneWest acquisition.
The supporting slide presentations for both the earnings and the acquisition are available in the Investor Relations section of the CIT website.
After their prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the call queue if you have any additional question.
We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of the call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2013 Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
For more information on CIT please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
And at this time I would like to turn the call over to John Thain our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for being on the call.
We have three good things to report on this morning.
First a good second quarter; second a good strategic transaction; and third a further share buyback and return of capital to shareholders.
We are going to be a little briefer this morning than we normally are to leave more time for questions.
Were going to talk about the second quarter first; then well discuss the merger and then well leave time for questions.
So as you saw we reported net income of $247 million for the second quarter thats a $195 million after tax from continuing operations.
We have good funded volume $3 billion in our core segments our credit quality and our portfolio remains stable.
And while the economic activity in the U.S.
improved in the second quarter low interest rates and slow economic growth still are restraining our middle market lending and leasing businesses.
We had solid utilization in our transportation businesses our commercial aircraft were 99% utilized our railcars were 98% utilized; and the Nacco integration -- Nacco is our European railcar business the integration process is proceeding nicely.
We are making progress on bringing down our expenses into our cargo range and our capital and liquidity positions remain strong.
I'll turn it to Scott to give you more details.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
So we can spend more time discussing the announced acquisition.
I am only going to cover a few highlights for the quarter.
And we have provided a more detailed earnings presentation on our website for your reference.
We had a solid operating result in the quarter as we continue to execute on our priorities.
Our underlying performance has been fairly steady in the first half of the year and reflects the strength of our franchises.
However quarterly financial results have been impacted by discrete items that caused some variability.
If you look at page 3 of the presentation it provides the highlights to the quarter some of which John just mentioned.
In addition our commercial franchises had strong asset growth of 4% sequentially and 15% from a year ago.
We improved our capital efficiency as we sold our SBL portfolio and announced the acquisition of direct capital a business with much higher returns.
We also significantly advanced our return of capital.
We bought back over 550 million worth of shares so far this year and increased the quarterly dividend to $0.15 a share.
And this morning the Board authorized an additional $500 million share repurchase authorization.
Turning to Slide 5 of the presentation adjusted net finance margin for the quarter was at the high end of the near term outlook at 426 basis points.
Our funding cost improved by about 15 basis points primarily from the recent debt actions we did in April probably offset by continued portfolio reprising.
In addition the margin benefited by about 10 basis points from lower operating lease expense from the first quarter and about 5 basis points of higher prepayment benefits in our corporate finance unit.
We expect the adjusted net finance margin to be closer to the midpoint of our near term outlook.
On Slide 6 you can see other income increased sequentially to about $94 million mainly driven due to gains from railcars sales as part of our on-going portfolio management and about $20 million of benefits related to the TRS.
In the current environment we expect other income to remain at levels similar to the first quarter around 75 to 100 basis points of average earning assets.
If you turn to Slide 7 operating expenses excluding restructuring charges improved to about $290 million representing about 264 basis points of average earnings assets.
Our expenses benefited primarily from lower employee cost as the annual restart of benefits normalized this quarter.
We continue to take actions to improve the efficiency of our business and the expense ratio will improve as we exit the remaining non-strategic portfolios.
As I mentioned at Investor Day I shared a path to achieve sustain 2% profitability on our (pre-patch) [ph] ROE basis in the near-term.
On Slide 9 we show how our profitability improves in the second quarter from lower funding and operating cost and also benefits from lower than expected loss provision in several discrete items.
As youll see on Slide 10 our year-to-date profitability is more reflective of our near term outlook.
So in summary we have made good progress this quarter on our strategic priorities to improve our profitability and deploy capital.
We are now going to move on the discussion about the OneWest acquisition.
And Ill it turn it back to John.
Thank you Scott.
So first I encourage you all to refer to the slides that we posted on the transaction.
I am not going to refer to each slide specifically but my comments will generally track the slides.
At our Investor Day we told you a number of things we said that we needed to make our bank bigger.
We told you we needed core retail deposits both to diversify the funding of our bank and to lower the cost of funding in our bank.
We also said that we were prepared to go over $50 billion of assets and therefore become technically a $50 billion although we prefer not to be $52 billion.
And we also said in any transaction we would propose would be attractive to our shareholders.
I believe that the acquisition of OneWest which we announced this morning satisfies all of those criteria.
Our bank more than doubles in size to 41 billion in assets with $28 billion in deposits we add $15 billion of deposits of which over $2 billion are commercial deposits.
And we reduce the cost of our deposit funding by about 40 basis points.
And we reduced our overall cost of funding by almost a 100 basis points.
Our combined companies will have assets of $67 billion the transaction is financially compelling.
It is 20% accretive to estimated 2016 earnings per share.
It significantly improves our return on tangible common equity and Scott will talk more about that.
The IRR in the transaction which is a way of thinking about how were investing this capital is a 15% IRR so attractive return on the investment to capital.
OneWest earnings which are almost all U.S.
earnings will accelerate our ability to use our NOL.
And as you can see from the deck the price that were paying 1.2 times book is an attractive price and thats before giving any benefit to the accelerated use of the NOLs.
Now OneWest has been growing a west coast focused middle market and specialty lending business its complementary to our businesses.
OneWest also has commercial deposit and payment solution capabilities that we will be able to offer to our existing client base.
As you can see from the deck the transaction consists of $2 billion of cash and 31.3 million shares of CIT stock so its a 59% cash 41% stock deal agree consideration of $3.4 billion.
Now CIT Bank which is our Utah bank will merge into OneWest bank which will remain an OCC regulated national bank and will be renamed CIT Bank.
Steven Mnuchin who is the Chairman of OneWest will become a Vice Chairman of our Company.
He will also become a Director of CIT.
Joseph Otting who is currently the CEO of OneWest will become Co-President of CIT and President and CEO of what will now become CIT Bank.
And Alan Frank who is a OneWest Independent Director will also become an Independent Director of CIT.
We expect the transaction to close sometime in the first or second quarter of 2015 and its subject to the customary regulatory approval.
Just a little bit of background on OneWest which is also in the slides.
OneWest was founded in 2009.
It has 73 branches in California.
It earns $243 million net income in 2013.
And I just want to comment I think Stephen and Joseph have built out a management team that have a proven track record in growing commercial loan volume and in growing deposits and you can see that in one of the slides very attractive very successfully growing both loans and deposits and there are also an attractive market.
The L.A.
area is an attractive market from both lending and core deposit growth.
Our combined company will be majority funded with deposits.
More than half of our combined assets will be funded in the bank.
And if you look at our businesses our commercial lending businesses fit well together and we have a similar credit philosophy we spend a lot of time talking about how they make loans and how we make loans and our credit philosophy is very similar.
And as I mentioned before OneWest cash management services will be an attractive offering to our client base.
OneWest legacy portfolio is relatively low risk and generates U.S.
taxable income as I said.
And the run off of that legacy portfolio over time will be replaced by newly originated commercial loans.
The combined management team has deep experience and there is very little overlap in the management.
This will make the integration process less risky and the transaction does not rely on significant expense savings.
As I said earlier this transaction does put us over $50 billion but weve been planning for that for the last several years and we believe that were well positioned to satisfy all of the criteria of being a 50 institution.
With that Ill turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John.
And I am going to pick up somewhere around slide 15.
This transaction as John mentioned provides an attractive opportunity.
If you look at the price multiples on the slide it compares favourably to recent transactions and in particular California banks.
The purchase price of $3.4 billion is roughly 1.2 times tangible book value which has an implied premium around $625 million.
In addition this transaction unlocks the value we talked about at Investor Day around our NOL utilization because of the U.S.
earning income.
On page 16 we believe the combination offers compelling returns with very modest synergy assumptions.
Weve assumed about $20 million of annual cost savings beginning in 2016 and that also includes our estimates for 50 readiness.
In addition weve assumed about $20 million of savings from funding synergies which will be a combination of improved liquidity management and the ability to invest in short term security and also the growth of a lower cost core commercial deposits.
We have an estimate for restructuring charges about $75 million.
The cash portion of the transaction we plan on issuing unsecured debt between 1.5 billion and 2 billion depending on closing and other cash actions we might be able to generate before that.
And the coupon for kind of long duration seven to 10 years somewhere around 4.5% as well as is the as we mentioned that we repurchased or had authorization repurchase another $500 million shares on top of the $800 million thats been authorized since May of 2013.
If you go to page 17 this is a very accretive transaction in the first full year.
In the back we provide a new appendix a little bit of information around that.
We took the consensus analyst expectations for 2016 on a pretax basis.
Its our belief that with this transaction in addition that what weve already been considering on the valuation allowance that our effective tax rate in 2016 will be closer to 30%.
So we did tax affected at that 30% that is subject to change as we go through the next period of time but is a good estimate.
And then we use OneWest earnings from 2013 as a basis for our 2016 estimates.
And when you do that math you come up to the 20% accretion that John mentioned.
As laid out on page 18 at the Investor Meeting we were focused on improving our return on equity.
We had actions that we said we were doing to improve the profitability of our core business.
And then we had a bucket that we said would be based on an acquisition as well as additional capital returns.
While this morning we did both so we did both the capital return as well as as an acquisition and the only difference between the slide presented a month ago in Investor Meeting that assumed no reversal of valuation allowance given the assumptions we had.
If you look at this slide at the bottom this gets us to the 12%-13% return on tangible common equity and that includes the reversal of the valuation allowance so we think thats very attractive for us from an overall target for our return on equity as well as this transaction close will get us to our target kind of capital ratios weve talked about over the last couple of years.
So in conclusion if you look at the transaction it advances our bank's strategy with the addition of core deposits and the bank franchise it complements our current commercial franchise both on the middle market as well as being able to offer cash management services to our customers.
It accelerates embedded value in our portfolio which is the use of excess capital and the NOL.
And the deal itself is very financially compelling.
So with that well turn it over to Drew when we take your questions.
We will now being the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital.
Please go ahead.
I have a few questions here firstly I know you have given the accretion estimate for 2016 and you mentioned that you didnt have any revenue synergies baked in there.
But as we look at the numbers and as you think about them I mean what can we reasonably estimate as a potential range of accretion that could be possible from revenue synergies as you think about that because that would be additional gravy on top if you will.
So how should we think about that? And can you give us a rough range of what that could be? Yes Sameer I would say that on the revenue synergies I think their core commercial lending platform as we said will kind of replace them as a legacy run-off.
But I think on the cash management services I think part of that will kind of be the part of the integration process.
We think there is opportunities that build out a good infrastructure for that.
So I think that would be the main area on the revenue synergies that we have opportunities for.
But I am not prepared I think this morning to kind of give you exact precision but that would be most of thing on a fee income related to that.
Sameer we do think that there are significant revenue synergies in transactions like this I think a lot of times its more conservative not to build those in but we definitely think they exist.
And then you did mention that you're planning to run-off OneWest residential mortgage portfolio.
What is the duration of that portfolio so we can get a sense for how long it may take to run that off? We put a slide in the deck Sameer as you kind of see that this portfolio naturally kind of runs off.
But the prepayment fees is definitely going to be kind of over the next five years youre going to see significant reduction.
I think the slide actually shows the run-off.
Transformation of that.
Thats the natural run-off of the portfolio.
Its not that were really doing anything to it its just the legacy portfolio as it naturally runs off.
But you could take steps to accelerate that possibility right? Is that something youll contemplate or would you just expect it to just run-off over time? I think our expectation will just run-off over time and create U.S.
taxable income for us.
And then just my last question you did mention that you were prepared for the -- to go over the $50 billion mark and stress testing and investments in BSA/AML compliance.
But as you think about OneWest and you look at their financials and presumably in your additional kind of -- in your EPS sales or expanse sales you baked in between now and then do you feel that they are going to incur a lot of costs in terms of getting compliant and they would be fully compliant by the time you complete the acquisition.
Or how should we think about any expenses or shortcomings in their infrastructure as they kind of integrate with your operations as it relates to all these compliance issues? Well I would say that the bank OneWest is a large bank thats regulated by the OCC.
So some of the processes that they have built are in line with the size of the banks they are.
And as we mentioned we did build in cost for additional build out on the SIFI side we said we had areas that we had to make improvement.
So as part of the integration process we would just integrate them into our capital planning process our stress testing process they do as the size of bank they have do (some FD fast) [ph] as given the size they are.
And so we will work through their processes and we as we did the due-diligence process we feel they built good infrastructure but of course as we mentioned at investor meeting we will have to have some incremental improvements on that side.
And in particular on our BSA/AML which is a big focus right now we believe that their BSA/AML systems are state-of-the-art as are ours.
The next question comes from Eric Edmund Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Just to follow up a little bit on Sameers line of questioning.
As I look at slide 11 Scott which I think is the slide that you referenced with respect to the portfolio growth.
On a go forward basis sort of a pro forma go forward will the assets of CIT Bank be net growing or net shrinking? They would be net growing but they wont be they will be muted by the run-off of the legacy portfolio.
Okay.
And then can you just kind of walk me through what the different capital actions are and the timing and what the resulting CIT Bank tier 1 common ratio will be as a result of the actions? So the capital actions so you know that we already previously announced so we have about $55 million left on the authorizations that have been announced previously.
This morning we had an additional $500 million authorization so that is through to the next year.
And then from a perspective of the capital ratios our expectation through this process that we get the target capital ratios that bank the both -- both at the bank and the bank holding company.
I mean I guess what I am trying to sort of see through is why accelerate repurchase and order to issue shares? Well so that the share component of the transaction so as we said the transactions 59% cash 41% stock.
There was a desire on the part of the OneWest shareholders who are very sophisticated investors they wanted to get CIT stock.
So part of the transaction part of negotiating the deal was their view that there was significant upside in the stock and so we could not have constructed this transaction as an all cash transaction.
I see so in other words the share repurchases in between [indiscernible] sort of optimized the ratio heading into that event.
Correct.
You're exactly right.
To get the capital ratio at close.
Yes so we are targeting the capital ratio at close and thats what we are doing.
The next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Could you talk a little bit about the underlying assumptions the pre-tax the pre or after tax earnings for CIT in 2016 because thats based upon consensus number same for OneWest? And then consistent with the last question about the capital and share count I mean you are assuming 20 million essentially 30 million shares repurchased between now and closing right? I dont think so if you look at the -- if we go to the consensus nodules we took the approximately $900 million that was out there and the change that we made there was different assumptions for the tax rate so we normalized that for the 30% that we think we're going to be at.
And then you see that in that share estimate there was some assumptions for capital actions but we've already taken a lot of those actions and you look at our share count as is of second quarter.
And then from a OneWest point of view we kind of used the baseline 2013 earnings and since its a private company we used that as a proxy to kind of get to the accretion dilution calculation.
Yes and as you know we have a little bit of repurchase left from our last program but we used most of that.
We talked about that at Investor Day the $500 million incremental authorization if you want to use kind of an estimate obviously depends where the stock is but thats more like 10 million shares.
Right but the number you used is 172 there is 186 million shares now and then you took another 10 million off so thats 14 and 10 its actually right.
So I guess my question is will you be able to buy back stock in 2015 after while this deal is in process in addition to the current authorization? It depends on the timing of the transaction and as we mentioned the basis is to achieve target capital at the time of closing so thats kind of what the assumptions that we're working under.
So the share count before the -- I guess my question is what is the share count you're assuming before you issue the 31 million shares to OneWest? I think -- why dont we circle back with you?  Okay   The next question comes from Eric Beardsley of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Just curious in terms of how you are going to manage lending franchise of OneWest already or are you going to look to keep that in place as it is or are you going to look to run that down and just keep your national lending platform that you have with CIT? The lending platforms are actually complementary to each other.
Actually we intend to really combine them.
Their lending franchises really are primarily West Coast base.
They do overlapping us in a few of our verticals but we believe they are additive and so we would continue them.
Okay.
And then from a branch and online bank strategy (I assume then) [ph] that you are not going to be rebranding OneWest to CIT at the branch level or are you and how does this impact the growth of the online bank? I think the branches will be rebranded CIT Bank and the online franchise we have will complement the branch network.
So we'll continue to have both offerings.
I guess as you look at growing (out term) [ph] deposits moving forward and try to optimize that base would you look to run off what you have at the online bank now in terms of some of the higher cost CDs? We will look as part of the transaction if we can optimize our kind of deposit offerings and lower the cost that will be something we'll look at.
I wont say we'll run anything up.
We may emphasize and re-emphasize different products as we integrate the branch deposits.
The next question comes from Mark DeVries of Barclays; please go ahead.
Presumably at the Investor Day this is already pretty far along then I think John when you talked about acquisitions you were clear to point out that very few were getting approved.
Could you give us a sense of what if any conversations you may have had with the Fed at this point on how receptive that they be to this deal? So we are not really going to comment on conversation we have with any of the regulators.
However I would say that first of all one of the main comments that we heard back from the regulators on an ongoing basis is the fact that we didnt have core retail deposits.
And so this transaction really satisfies one of the deficiencies that the regulators including the Fed as well as the FDIC felt we had when they looked at how we were capitalizing and how we were funded.
So from that perspective this transaction should be attractive to them.
Second of all if you look at the size of the resulting company we are still significantly below $100 billion.
And there have been comments from the Fed about transactions that stay below $100 billion.
And then thirdly and we talked about this we have been doing a lot of work to become a SIFI even through organic growth.
And so I think our ability to convince the regulators and particularly the Fed that we have the infrastructure to become a SIFI I think is important to that approval process.
So we are confident that this transaction can in fact get approved.
Okay great.
And just one other question; do you have any sense on how much excess capital you think you will have post this transaction relative to what your economic capital needs are or what your regulatory capital needs are? I cant give you an exact number.
I think as we integrate the portfolios and their risk rating assets versus ours; my sense as we get through the regulatory process and we kind of come out on the other side we'll have a better feel for that but I think its a little bit too early to that other than -- we want to get our enterprise in position near close to be at our target.
And then if there is additional opportunities post that that would be part of our expectations.
I just want to go back one second on the question on the share account because it is detailed on slide 23 in the deck.
And basically the simple math is we are issuing 31 million shares the buyback assumes 10 million shares so the net addition is 21 million shares.
The next question comes from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer; please go ahead.
First of all I was wondering do you need any other approvals to actually execute the $500 million buyback? No.
And then I guess more broadly what is the strategic vision for CIT going forward? Meaning that you are bringing together -- CIT historically is a national and/or even global commercial wholesale lender and this is a kind of narrow regional franchise.
Is the vision for CIT to be a regional bank or to continue to be a national wholesale lender? We are a national -- I would have said middle market lender.
So that is our business to be a national middle market lender.
The strategic vision is we will continue to do that.
But before we were funding 90 plus percent of our U.S.
lending and leasing businesses in our Utah bank.
Now we have a much bigger and better capitalized and better funded California bank.
So I dont think that the strategic direction is different at all.
Were just much-much better funded now.
And we do have a core set of branches that diversifies our business base but basically what we're doing is we were moving from a Utah bank to a California bank thats twice as big and has lower cost of funds and has a more diversified funding base.
And does that diversified funding base -- you still have a I guess a large footprint of debt funding.
Do you anticipate being able to shrink that down over time? Yes I think thats a component Chris of the assets that we have at the holding company so some of the non-strategic portfolios we said we'd use that to kind of recapitalize the bank holding company.
So as we grow out the bank franchise if there is opportunities you see our debt maturities we do have opportunities to prune at that and it really depends on the growth of the aircraft leasing business which is predominantly whats funded at the holding company.
The next question comes from Brad Ball of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Do you have the ability to transfer assets from the holding company to the bank as part of the transaction? And are there any implications for the transportation finance business as a result of this? Will you end up using the bank to fund more of your aircraft and rail leasing and lending assets? Well the answer is no different than the previous one I mean the transfer of assets from the holding company and the majority of whats left at the holding company are our aircrafts leasing business predominant of those are in Ireland.
And then the legacy railcars but were taking on due deliveries of the railcar in our bank and we will continue to do that going forward.
Weve talked about we do have some leases on the aircraft side in the bank and all of our U.S.
lending is already going in the bank.
So I think its just some of the aircraft leasing thats outside the U.S.
as well as the legacy railcars at the holding company.
Right and there is no ability to move assets from the holding company to the bank in this transaction but the other thing that does happen so there are limitations on high residual leases for banks and so one of the things that we do get here is because the bank is much bigger that limitation is also much bigger so it does allow more room for a greater number of in particular aircraft because they trigger the high residual test.
Great.
And then follow up Scott could you talk in more detail about how you expect to unlock the value of the NOLs? I guess so you talk about a $300 million revaluation.
So does it go from 5.2 billion to 5.5 billion the total NOL? And did you say that you expect to realize the full DTA in your 12% to 13% return on tangible common forecast? Yes so the answer to your first question that the -- it's an MPD its not a rebalancing of that.
So if you look at the kind of pre-tax earnings of OneWest and you discount that back at our kind of cost of equity thats how you get the MPD of the pretax earnings streams that they were acquiring.
The second piece as you would expect with more U.S.
income that will free up regulatory capital faster because when the DTAs reverse youll have a mismatch between book equity and regulatory capital because there are limitations on the DTA based on your U.S.
earnings profile.
So thats kind of the concept Brad that were trying to do that.
And then the third piece is on the ROE walk yes the ROEs that we put out there did have the assumption that the valuation allowance was reversed.
And so thats all still subject to our analysis process that this transaction would be additional evidence that we would have to factor into the work weve already been doing prior to the transaction.
And Im sorry just a quick follow up that DA was like 1.2 billion 1.3 billion at the end of 1.3 billion.
Okay.
And you werent we assuming that a lot of that might have been reversed anyways? I think thats why there is two concepts one is at the Investor Meeting we try to keep everything on a pre-DA reversal to reduce complexity.
So thats the reason why we did that.
This transaction we were already going down the path and we mentioned that just based on our normal analysis that we would have that.
So the delta or the difference on this Brad would be because its more U.S.
income than were currently generating that will be beneficial to us both from a regulatory capital perspective as well as the cash flow generated from the cash savings from the NOL.
The next question comes from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
You mentioned in the slides that the transaction is going to be dilutive to tangible book value with the four year earn back.
What will the pro forma tangible book value be? Its in the appendix.
Its 40 to 53 its on page 23.
If you look at page 23 is the pro forma.
And so this captures the effect of the reversal of the valuation allowance and kind of other than moving parts with the issuance of shares and all that effectively this is a pro forma 42-53? Thats correct.
Okay thank you.
Separately to go back to your comments about the economics of the deferred tax of the NOL carry forwards does this transaction in anyway change that $230 million annual limitation on your pre-emergence NOLs or is that still in place? Yes the 230 doesnt change and again remember thats only on pre-emergence NOLs and its not related to the NOLs that were created post the emergence.
And finally I wasnt really -- I am sorry if I missed this but I didnt really follow the adjustment process that you guys went through.
I look at facts that I only see four estimates for 2016 and its $4.06.
I am trying to understand kind of the adjustments that you guys made to get to that 3.73 standalone EPS.
If you could just talk about that in a high level and I could follow up with you guys.
Yes Bill you can kind of circle back with Barbara but we took the analyst consensus which have more than whats in Ibis as the basis for those estimates.
The next question comes from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
The $6 billion of mortgage loans at OneWest it's a very hot and heavy market out there for distressed assets.
What would be the dynamic of selling those assumably a carrying value? Would that eliminate a meaningful earning asset for you and complicate the utilization of the NOL.
Or could you sell those assets and then do something more meaningful with the cash? As you see on page -- if you look at the investor deck on Page 11 they are a pretty good yielding asset that we feel are kind of low risk.
So from that perspective Henry anything is possible and we have to valuate that.
But the earnings stream on that is productive for the NOL and because the yields on the portfolio it's a good yielding portfolio that we would have to see how would that compare to other uses of that cash if you could sell at book value.
I think from a practical point of view it would be difficult for us to rephrase that portfolio with that kind of yield in this environment.
So the fact that it is an attractive portfolio and the fact that its earning U.S.
income and that we can shelter that income and use our NOL.
I mean thats one of the drivers of the value of this transaction.
That portfolio to us with our NOL is very valuable.
And I think its not very likely that we could replace those assets.
So I would not anticipate that we would sell this.
Now is OneWest servicing these loans or did the servicing of these loans transfer when they sold the rest of the servicing assets? OneWest sold a big slug of their servicing but there is still lots of interactions between OneWest and the servicing but they did sell their service rights.
And then when we look at this business is this and I dont want to say just because they are obviously a lot of benefits on the side but is this just primarily the acquisition of a depository and a cash management product? Or do you look at this business and see potential commercial loan products that could be developed inside OneWest that may fit a bank franchise better than what youre doing at CIT.
I wouldnt say better I think it does complement.
Because I think Henry if you look at what Joseph and Stephen have done around growing the franchise they have a very good front end production and the loans that they are originating are kind of complementary to what we are originating in the middle market so we do think that their franchise is value that can build on and leverage some of the capabilities that they have.
And the other thing that weve talked about before were lending and leasing into the middle market space but were not capturing any of the commercial deposits were not capturing any of the cash management.
And a lot of people who we compete with basically cross sell those products and basically cross subsidize them.
And so OneWest takes commercial deposits.
As we said they have over $2 billion of commercial deposits today.
They have the cash management and money transfer capabilities that will allow us to offer those services that will generate fee income and thats a big plus.
We need to be able to do that and that will help us competitively really across all of our middle market lending and leasing businesses.
And then the last question and again thank you I think the detail in the slide deck really worked through a lot for all of us.
The thought process about being a bigger institution does this increase your hold size on future commercial deals? So our Chief Credit Officer is sitting here.
I think the answer is theoretically yes because of course were a bigger institution and were more profitable.
And so yes we can have bigger hold sizes.
I think how much will be a question of our risk appetite and the environment were in.
I think well have to wait and see on that.
The next question comes from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research; please go ahead.
I wonder could you just clarify how much your capacity to hold -- aircraft and (rail) [ph] leases would be increased with the acquisition in the banks? Its generally -- its a 10% test.
So its to the extent -- this is not exactly right because we havent done this exactly but basically were doubling the size of the bank.
So a way to think about it is its kind of doubling the capacity to hold high residual leases.
And then just to clarify in terms of getting over the $50 billion threshold if there are no changes to the Federals would you become subjective to CCAR in 2017 or before? It depends on when the deal front transaction closes and based on the averaging it could be it depends on all those.
So if it was 15 its four quarters.
So it could be 16 or could be 17.
I guess I am wondering is do you have to submit at the beginning of the year and if you have four quarters and you dont close till the first and second quarter next year it might not be 16 wouldnt that?  Correct.
Thats correct.
So it's all a matter of timing and where you are in that timing.
And then could you just talk about your assumption of OneWest earnings Im not that familiar with what they have been doing lately.
But is it conceivable that their earnings in 2016 would be higher or lower for some reason than what they earned in 2013? Are you are just being conservative? Is there -- We are using 2013 as just a proxy.
As you mentioned we have the run-off as a legacy portfolio and that being replaced with commercial loan.
So I wouldnt say that kind of transformation current run rate is consistent with 2013.
And so that would be I guess a good proxy to start with.
Is there some potential upside? I think we would call that more of the synergies as we kind of looked at that through the full innovation process.
Thats how we kind of got there.
I will just mention one thing is that they -- some of the portfolio is fair valued.
So when we did the closing we would move that cost basis so that would reduce some of the volatility.
So if you go back and look at some of the call reports there is some volatility driven by the fair value in their portfolio.
And so what we tried to use on the 243 is more of a normalized run rate based on the accounting that we would have the portfolio on.
And then is there anything more -- anything that you could say about just I guess affecting the deal in terms of negotiating with them that Bank [indiscernible] has been for sale for some time.
Nobody else has been able to do a deal.
What was different you think with you guys? Well first of all we believe in -- if you look at how we priced this and we believe that on a price to book basis in particular if you look at where transactions are getting done and particularly look at where transactions getting done for California banks this is a very attractive price.
That being said their owners are very sophisticated and the fact is they are taking a significant amount of stock in this transaction and they -- I know this from having talking to them as their rationale for them doing this; they believe there is significant upside in the stock.
So the way this transaction is structured the deal is structured so they get a fixed number of shares basically as of today so all of the appreciation in the stock they get on their shares and so that makes this deal very attractive to them because they believe there is in fact a lot of appreciation and thats from some very smart people.
The next question comes from John Parker of Neuberger Berman; please go ahead.
John that was my question actually but maybe you could follow on and talk about the role of the OneWest management team as you go forward and how are you going to integrate them in the process? Sure.
It is a very basically additive set of management team because we dont have branches we dont have much of a West Coast presence.
And so there will not be a lot of overlap in terms of the management especially at the leadership level.
So thats one of the reasons why Stephen is staying in his role as Vice Chairman of our company Joseph Otting is staying as the President and CEO of the bank.
We believe that the management teams actually are quiet additive.
Its one of the reasons why there is a relatively low number in terms of expense savings and thats because we think that we do represent a good combination here.
And even on the business lines where they are originating in terms of -- Ill just give you an example so they have a commercial real estate business we have a commercial real estate business.
But our business is mostly East Coast and their business is mostly West Coast.
So we believe its additive even in places where we do have some overlap.
So there will be some expense savings in some of the corporate infrastructure but for the most part this is additive.
The next question comes from Chris Brendler of Stifel Nicolaus.
I wanted to ask a quick follow up before I started on slide 23 about tangible books.
I believe the previous question was about the deferred tax asset coming back on balance sheet and coming in the book value.
It doesnt look like that slide includes the benefit of the DTAs.
I just wanted to make sure that.
Chris youre correct.
So I think what we did on the ROE was we put that assumption in there because from a deal economic point of view we're already going down the path of evaluating the valuation so we think that kind of an independent.
I just put it in the ROE walk to kind of demonstrate that that with that happening is very strong for us to get to our target ROEs.
So it is not in this tangible book details.
Great thanks.
And then just a little bit of following last question just trying to think about 1.2 times tangible book very attractive valuations for OneWest.
What are the risks associated with the transaction? Why is the price so attractive other than the fact that theyre getting very attractive CIT paper? I think it's in primary reason but I am just trying to -- I am just wrestling with what are the concerns around other acquisitions of OneWest that was able to give CIT confidence that it's going to be a great combination? So weve been talking to them for over a year.
This weve had a very long period of time to do due diligence.
This is I think a very good fit from a business point of view.
The alternative for OneWest is really an IPO which they certainly were considering.
In this transaction basically monetizes their stock faster theyll have a stock thats -- it has some reception on it but it will be tradable relatively quickly.
And they believe that this is -- when they look at the appreciation potential of stock they think this is -- they believe its a very attractive valuation for their company.
So this is really one of the situations where really both parties view the transaction attractively.
The other thing I would say is that we are sort of unique in that their U.S.
taxable income is particularly valuable to us because it unlocks the DTA and the ability to use the NOL.
So other people I think would not have value that stream of U.S.
income which doesnt have a lot of growth in it but to us has the ability to unlock a lot of value.
Okay great.
And gentlemen [indiscernible] question as well.
Would you prefer to pay more cash?  Well so the simple answer to that is because part of the value of this transaction is it also restructures that capitals of the company the more cash we use the more the capital gets restructured and the more we bring ourselves down to our target capitalization level you have to balance that with the having what I would say clearly sufficient capital from a regulatory approval process.
And so this was a balance of the desires of the OneWest shareholders to get stock the desire to us to get our capital into the kind of 12% to 13% range and also the need to get it approved for regulatory purposes which means that it has to be clearly very well capitalized.
But I mean [indiscernible] buyback its also playing and I think it's pretty impressive.
I want to ask one more question which is back to the quarter for a second.
I just trying to sort the numbers asking a lot of questions on the results this quarter they look obviously much better than last quarter.
Can you just talk at all about prepayment speeds and how they maybe moderate a little bit and the other factor sort of driving the strength in the top line yield? Is there -- may be touch I think for years about yield related fees that gets new business line actually generate yields and gets put into your net interest margin.
It seems like a pretty strong quarter from a yield perspective.
I am just trying to figure out how sustainable that is.
Yes so Chris I guess it is the first question on the quarter.
I would tell you that the deck that we put out on the investor website is pretty detailed.
We give you a lot of walks to go through that.
The answer to your question is prepayments fees in our corporate banks have kind of slowed down little bit given the longevity of one customers and how many customers have the ability to refinance.
So I think that has been positive in regards to the asset growth and maintain some of the yields that we had on the portfolio.
We did have some noise in the quarter which I tried to pull out related to what I called at Investor Day when we restructured the aircraft securitization that did pull some income into the margin line as well as other income that we detailed out in the presentation.
We did have one large recovery in our corporate finance business that I mentioned but outside of that if you look at the year-to-date numbers are very much in line with what I laid out for you at Investor Meeting.
And so I think the margin is kind of in that 4% range credit I mean if you look at the charge-offs outside of the portfolio we'll move to held for sale was really kind of back to the levels that we had mentioned before.
And so we're making progress on OpEx.
So I think that all the key metrics are kind of moving in the right direction but there is not something where we will still have some unusual each quarter that will create variability.
The other thing which we did talk about at investor day as well is we have been seeing stabilization in the pricing on our middle market lending.
So whereas in earlier quarters we talked about pricing pressure there we really have seen that stabilize.
One quick follow up there.
Generally new business were putting on is it at or better yields than existing book or is it still largely dilutive? No I wouldnt say I think in general the new business is below the portfolio average.
Yes so it obviously depends on which of our businesses but our corporate finance business the new businesses is on a lower yield than the portfolio as a whole.
The one place thats not true is really on the rail car business where the new rail car leases are being put on at rates higher than the portfolio.
Good to have a nice bounce down in funding cost.
The next question comes from Ken Bruce Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Couple of question though that havent been addressed.
You have pointed out that the deal is contingent upon the law sharing agreements being extended maybe you can give us some sense as to what some of the sensitivities around that would be I understand you cant really discuss any discussions with the regulator.
But how should you be thinking about that or what risks would we expect in terms of extending that law share agreement? So there are a number of loss share its a little bit complicated but there are a number of different loss sharing agreements and a number of different things that have to get transferred.
But the single largest loss share which really came out of the IndyMac transaction.
This is single largest and the most valuable we are comfortable that FDIC approval or consent is in fact not required on that largest one.
And the merger agreement has provisions in it that allows that will basically provide for us to be able to get those approvals.
And so I think were confident that we will be able to get the approvals we need.
And then youve shown the numbers just with respect to the 2013 actual performance.
I am not as familiar with OneWest maybe as I hope to be.
But is this a business thats going to be rate sensitive? Do you envision there being any interest rate sensitivities between now and the deal closed? Do you need to establish any hedges for those any related costs? No they are very sophisticated so they hedge their portfolios.
As I mentioned it is a mark-to-market portfolio and the majority or the largest portfolio they have that we would move to cost accounting post-closing.
But they manage that very very tightly and so were comfortable with that.
And do you anticipate this transaction having any impact on the debt rating? We will meet with the rating agencies as part of that but we think given what this deal brings to us and what we've talked about in the past that the rating agencies have been looking for.
It significantly increases our funding from deposits specially core retail deposits.
It provides strong capital and the post transaction gives us diversification of earnings and we think the asset classes that they are originating and consistent with ours.
So I think the acceleration around the portfolio is also very positive.
So we think that all these elements are items that weve been talking about.
So we think its positive for us but well wait to kind of have the reviews and discussions with the rating agencies.
And just lastly I am just trying to -- this goes back to an earlier question relating to the accretion.
I think you've pointed out that on Slide 23 the share count kind of roll forward.
There seems to be a little bit of a reconciliation difference between whats used for book value and the actual EPS accretion because its using a starting point of 2016 -- share count of 2016 estimates was like 172 million considerably below where it is today I dont know if that was intentional or how to I guess square that box? Yes I think the view point is the consensus did have some estimates in there regards the capital returns and so our expectation on putting the slide together was really around getting to our target capital ratio as part of the closing process.
And given the timing sensitivity that will impact some of the analyst expectations in there versus the kind of the role forward we put out there.
The next question comes from Cheryl Pate of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and congratulations on the transaction.
Just a question first of all on the deposit side.
Obviously on a pro forma basis this nicely increases your deposit as percent of funding.
Can you maybe help us think about I guess number one; outside of the aircraft leasing business how much of the business could move to deposit funded over time? And then secondly how do you think about the broker to CD component given sort of the lower cost of retail deposits and opportunities for growth there? Well I think Cheryl the assets that we have been originating in the bank will continue to originate in the bank.
And as we mentioned the things at the holding company really will not be transferred into the bank.
So I think going forward its the growth of our commercial lending operations in the bank.
We still think that the broker CDs is as weve talked about before we still believe those are a good source of long term duration to match fund in our longer duration railcar and also loans that are greater than five years.
So that will still become -- will still stay a proportion of our funding.
But it may moderate depending on the asset mix within the bank.
Okay.
And then second question can you speak to any potential litigation risk that maybe attached to legacy RMBS assets or any field legacy real estate assets sort of similar to what weve been seeing for example at JPMorgan and [indiscernible] is that a potential risk to consider here? So OneWest has done a very good job managing that litigation risk.
When they sold their mortgage servicing rights they capped their liability on that sale.
And also as part of the transactions where they acquired these FISC protected assets they -- when OneWest was formed they bought assets out of the whatever the remainder of IndyMac was so they bought assets and did not pick up the liabilities that save there.
So theyve done a very good job obviously thats a risk for anyone who has mortgages and mortgage servicings and they done a very good job at minimizing their exposure to that type of risk.
They do also have significant reserves for other types of issues but theyve been very conscious about that and done a very good job at managing that.
The next question comes from David Hilder from Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
In your response to the earlier question on the prospects for regulatory approval the one thing you didnt mentioned was the BSA AML issues that obviously be kind of (cooked) [ph] up M&amp;T.
Whats your view on how the regulators will view both your capabilities and OneWests capabilities in that regard? Yes so youre absolutely right.
The BSA AML is very-very important to the regulatory approval process as weve seen from one of the other transactions.
So one of the reasons why you havent really seen us doing anything on the MA front for the last year which is since we got the written agreement is weve been spending that period of time bringing our BSA AML systems and processes and procedures up to what I would call state of the art.
And so we are very confident that our BSA AML systems and procedures and infrastructure will in fact be acceptable and weve also spent time talking to OneWest about theirs.
So were comfortable that were well positioned in that front.
But that is absolutely one of the critical elements to getting any transaction approved.
The next question comes from Louise Pitt of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just didnt hear any potential comments on the timing of the debt transactions.
Would you look to do those as soon as possible? Are you targeting them around the close? I think we would most likely target those around the close or as we get to the regulatory process slightly in advance of closing.
The next question comes from Justin Mower of Lord Abbott.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Scott just relative to the run off you talked about just curious the earnings in 13 that are 243 million 9 billion of assets currently.
How should we think about the 5 billion of single family in the billing and reverse mortgage? Just have you guys are been very good at managing through kind of the shrinking ice cube phenomena of exiting businesses and such just wondering how you guys are modelling that out for the next few years? Well as we mentioned the portfolios kind of have the natural kind of run off as it matures.
And so I think there were some questions about would we look to the accelerating some of that and it really would be a matter of whats the economics of doing that.
So we think that that will just continue to run off and then Joseph and Steven really have been building the commercial franchise such that the overall asset and earnings power of the enterprise continued to offset that run-off.
And depending on the growth of the U.S.
economy and things like that if the commercial lending and services that they provide that could be positive to the 243? Or depending on what that is it might be a little bit below that.
So I thought we just use it as a good proxy for where we are at.
But at least in the next two to three years with the [indiscernible] at least at a minimum tier point offset the loan run-off with growth and then depending on the yield I mean tier to John's point its a fairly healthy yield thats coming off so provided rates don't anything in the intervening time What we have kind of looked at what theyre building the franchise that they've built is really kind of has good momentum but you are right.
Its depending on the environment the new assets they're putting on.
But theyve been demonstrating great growth and traction on the commercial side.
So we think its fair.
There could be a plus or minus of course on the 2013 earnings.
The next question comes from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee; please go ahead.
Yes just to clarify something the $42 tangible book value that you put in the slide deck that excludes the NOL capture which would be -- but the ROE analysis does is that correct? Correct.
What we try to do Henry I mentioned that to Chris is there are two different concepts.
For the deal the reversal of the valuation allowance is an independent discussion and was going to happen.
So when we looked at the tangible book dilution page we didnt include that.
But if you -- when we did the ROE what I was trying to do is take us back to the investor meeting that with this transaction actually we get at a 12% to 13% even with the DA reversal.
So we think thats even more positive than we kind of laid out a month ago.
That was the only point I apologize [indiscernible].
Yes.
So not to state the obvious so you are going to be earning a quarter -- we'll call it a 12% ROE on what theoretically will be a book value thats about 8 -- call it $6 or $8 higher.
Obviously my number is not yours.
It maybe a $48 or $50 book value.
Another question I know I just missed this the closing date on the transaction I thought I heard it but I wanted to double check it.
We're saying -- the deck says first half of 15.
We're hopeful we can do it in the first quarter but thats obviously totally depends on the regulatory approval process.
The next question comes from Michael Rogers of Conning &amp; Company; please go ahead.
Okay we will go to the next question that comes from Brian Schinderle of BAM; please go ahead.
My questions have been asked and answered.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Vincent Caintic of Macquarie; please go ahead.
First one a quick clarifying question and another broader question.
The cost of kind of exceeding a $50 billion total asset is that contemplated in the restructuring charges 75 million or would that potentially be above that and if you could quantify? Im not going to quantify for you but we did factor it in as I mentioned into the operating synergy.
So it's a dis-synergy of the cost that we think that we need to comply with the new level of going over 50 billion.
Its not in the restructuring charge.
Okay and then back to the business and particularly the aircraft and railcar portfolio.
It appears to have kind of pointed to kind of strong market valuations for those and I was wondering if you could compare kind of where your portfolio is in terms of kind of the book carrying value.
And then another question one of your peers in the railcar business has said that there is a significant opportunity from the safety retrofits of tank cars.
I was wondering if you could speak to that.
Thanks.
Well I'll just clarify what we said in investor meeting that we said in general Im not going to go through the specifics or a portfolio we said that the transportation operating lease book is -- the market value exceeds the carrying value that we have on our books.
So I think that answers that question.
I am not so sure I understood the question on the railcar.
On the tank cars I mean the first -- we have about 20% of our portfolio are tank cars.
And then a significant amount of those are actually newer tank cars.
Its not clear to us yes because the regulations really havent come out yet to what extent that they are going to have to be retrofitted.
So its not clear to us exactly how much thats going to cost.
We do have provisions in our leases that allow us to cash through some of those cost.
And of course we will comply with whatever the regulations are.
So we will have fully compliant tank cars.
But I wouldnt have called it an opportunity.
It actually I think the peer said that its kind of refinancing of tank cars that could be replaced or retrofitted that maybe thats an additional couple of billion dollar opportunity for refinancing those guys? I dont think that would be true in our case.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations for any closing remarks.
Okay well thank you Drew and thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
And if you have any follow-up questions please feel free to give me a call or any of my colleagues in Investor Relations.
Thank you.
That concludes todays call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Drew and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only-mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session later in the call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Drew.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO and Scott Parker our CFO.
After John and Scott's prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the call queue if you have any additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2013 10-K that was filed with the SEC in March.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Also as part of the call this morning we will be representing a presentation that is available on the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.cit.com.
I'll now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for being on the call.
We reported solid results for the quarter from our core businesses with some noise in the numbers.
Our financing and leasing assets from our core segments grew 17% from a year ago and 4% from the prior quarter.
Our core segments originated funded volume of $2.9 billion up 22% from a year ago.
We completed the acquisition of Direct Capital and then our credit metrics remained at or near cyclical lows.
Our Transportation &amp; International Finance segment earned $162 million pre-tax in the quarter.
Financing and leasing assets in that segment grew to $19.1 billion up 22% from a year ago and up 4% sequentially.
We've ordered 30 new aircraft.
Our commercial air fleet and our railcar fleets were both 99% utilized.
The segment's net finance margin was 4.82%.
And we announced a strategic partnership with Century Tokyo Leasing which will give us another tool to provide attractive financing solutions to our key airline customers.
Our North American Commercial Finance segment earned $62 million pre-tax for the quarter.
Financing and leasing assets grew to $16.4 billion up 12% from a year ago and up 5% sequentially.
We originated funded loan and lease volume of $1.6 billion.
North American Commercial Finance's net finance margin was 3.91%.
The credit quality of the portfolio in the North American Commercial Finance segment remains stable with reserve build due to growth and higher reserves on a small number of accounts.
Expenses in the segment were up due to the addition of Direct Capital.
Scott will cover this in more detail but the noise in the quarter was from the partial reversal of the tax related valuation allowance the impairment on the non-strategic portfolios that we're in the process of selling and some other tax and restructuring items.
And the impact of these items are highlighted in our presentation deck.
On the acquisition of OneWest we continue to work through the regulatory approval process.
We are actively involved in integration planning and we continue to expect the transaction to close in the first half of 2015.
On the U.S.
economy one of the better indicators of how the U.S.
economy is doing is the utilization of our railcars and at 99% the implication is the U.S.
economy is growing probably in excess of 3%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We continue to make progress on the strategic initiatives we highlighted at Investor Day in June.
The underlying performance of our core segments has been in line with our near-term profitability outlook with most of the quarterly variability coming from our portfolio repositioning activities.
Here are some highlights for the quarter.
John mentioned net income was $515 million or $2.76 a share which included a $375 million reversal of the valuation allowance-related to the U.S.
Federal Net DTA as well as a few other noteworthy items we highlight in the presentation.
Our commercial franchises had strong asset growth of 4% sequentially and 17% from a year ago.
We completed the acquisition of Direct Capital which added over a $0.5 billion to our portfolio and we continue to work on the integration of OneWest.
We've made significant progress towards the exit of our remaining non-strategic portfolios.
And we returned approximately $135 million to our shareholders this quarter.
We've repurchased nearly 2.2 million shares for about a $106 million and we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.15.
Turning to Slide 2 of the presentation we'd like to discuss  before I discuss the third quarter results I want to recap the performance of our commercial franchises and the impact that portfolio repositioning activities have had on our financial metrics.
Our core commercial franchises North America Commercial Finance and Transportation &amp; International Finance have had double-digit asset growth from a year ago 13% organically and 17% including acquisitions and had a pre-tax ROA of over 2%.
Portfolio repositioning activities have driven most of the quarterly variability and also reduced our earnings.
This month we signed an agreement to sell about $100 million of our European non-strategic portfolio.
In addition we are in the advance stages of negotiating sales in Mexico and Brazil and recorded an impairment of $48 million after tax this quarter.
We expect to conclude the sale of Mexico by the end of the year and Brazil in 2015 due to the required regulatory approvals.
And as we exit these portfolios we will improve our profitability and free up cash that can be redeployed in our commercial franchises.
As I've previously mentioned there is over $60 million of currency translation adjustment related to our investments in these countries and has already recognized an equity through AOCI.
As we complete these exits we will recognize the associated CTA as a charge to earnings some of which will likely occur in the fourth quarter.
Moving onto our operating segments.
Transportation &amp; International Finance reported pre-tax income of $162 million or 3.5% pre-tax ROA.
The sequential increase in pre-tax income primarily reflects asset growth and higher gain on asset sales.
Assets grew 4% sequentially and 22% from a year ago to slightly over $19 billion with strong sequential growth in aerospace and maritime.
We originated $1.3 billion of volume including about $600 million of operating leases and $700 million of loans.
And we continue to make strategic investments in our order book to position the commercial air and rail franchises for the future.
John mentioned the joint venture with Century Tokyo Leasing which combines our commercial aircraft originations and asset management expertise with their relationships and funding.
We expect to sell a $0.5 billion of aircraft to this joint venture in the fourth quarter and we will start earning recurring management fees.
In addition in the fourth quarter we expect to complete the sale of about $350 million of international loans currently held for sale.
While these initiatives will enhance returns it will dampen the near-term asset growth.
Contractual utilization in aerospace continues to be strong.
Lease rates on new aircraft are attractive and renewal yields are generally stable.
In addition our commercial customers have performed well and we have seen a good demand for lease renewals and extensions which has resulted in lower operating lease expense than previously anticipated.
Rail utilization was over 99% which is a near all time high reflecting strong demand across most industries with renewal rents averaging above expiring rates.
Overall we continue to enhance the franchise by managing our core leasing portfolio investing in new technologies through the order book growing maritime and originating more assets in CIT Bank.
North American Commercial Finance reported pre-tax earnings of $62 million or 1.7% pre-tax ROA.
The decline from last quarter was mainly driven by higher credit loss provision primarily reflecting a reserve build due to asset growth.
Assets grew to over $16 billion up 5% sequentially and 12% from a year ago and included the acquisition of Direct Capital.
Despite a competitive market environment we originated over $1.6 billion of loans and leases this quarter.
While new business volume was strong in real estate finance prepayments were also higher this quarter as several deals paid-off due to good market demand.
Commercial Services also had a good quarter as factored volume rose both sequentially and from a year ago.
We continue to have success retaining clients and growing in non-apparel sectors.
In Corporate Finance new business pricing remains stable and we continue to win more agency roles despite pressure on deal terms and structures.
And new business yields and equipment finance have stabilized as we maintain pricing discipline.
We are excited about the opportunity to leverage Direct Capital's technology and business platform to enhance our profitability and returns.
In summary the segment had organic growth of 8% year-over-year in a competitive market while maintaining credit discipline effectively managing expenses and delivering double-digit pre-tax returns.
Now I'd like to turn to Page 12 in the investor presentation to discuss our key profitability metrics.
Adjusted net finance margin remained at the high-end of the near-term outlook as a benefit of lower funding cost was offset by portfolio repricing.
Credit metrics continue to be near cycle lows while net charge-offs and reserve coverage were unchanged sequentially the provision increased to reflect the higher reserves primarily related to asset growth.
Excluding the impairments on the non-strategic portfolios other income was at the low end of the near-term outlook consistent with the current middle market deal environment.
Operating expenses before restructuring changes was flat sequentially at about 260 basis points of average earning assets and improved by about 30 basis points from a year ago reflecting progress on several initiatives.
In summary our commercial franchises delivered over 2% pre-tax ROA.
Turning to Slide 13 on taxes we started the year with $1.3 billion domestic net deferred tax asset that was fully reserved through a valuation allowance of which about $900 million related to U.S.
Federal income taxes.
This quarter we met the cumulative profitability and other criteria and reserved $375 million of the $900 million valuation allowance against the U.S.
Federal Net DTA.
The amount reversed did not incorporate the announced acquisition of OneWest.
Once that deal closes we anticipate the taxable income profile of the company will support to reversal of the remaining valuation allowance against the U.S.
Federal Net DTA.
As a result of this action our book value increased by $375 million but there was minimal impact on our regulatory capital ratios.
We expect our reported tax expense for the fourth quarter to remain around $10 million to $15 million excluding any discrete items and our global effective tax rate for 2015 to be around 30% and cash taxes will continue to be around 10% of pre-tax earnings.
In summary we have made good progress this quarter on our strategic priorities.
We achieved strong asset growth and profitability in our core commercial franchises while maintaining underwriting discipline.
We made significant progress towards exiting non-strategic portfolios.
We grew CIT Bank which now represents nearly half of our financing and leasing assets.
And we continue to deploy capital for organic growth and accretive acquisitions and return capital to our shareholders through repurchases and dividends.
With that I'll turn it back to Drew and we will take your questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
Could you give us a little bit more clarity on kind of why you saw the net finance margin near the high-end of your long-term or your near-term expectations and kind of where you expect that trend from here? Yes Mark I would say that in the quarter we had continued the portfolio repricing but that was offset by the improvement on the funding cost.
So I'd say that given where we are utilization's kind of at an all time high.
So we do see some pressure there in the fourth quarter but we think we're going to be  continue to be above the midpoint.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one quick follow-up on John's comments about approval of the OneWest transaction.
Are you far enough down the road with that that you'd have some sense as to whether there'll be any issues with the approval? No.
We're just going through that process.
There is nothing to lead us to believe there'd be any issues but we wouldn't necessarily no.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Brad Ball with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Scott I wonder if you could talk about what initiatives you have that would drive OpEx into your targeted range 200 basis points to 250 basis points.
Obviously you're still above that you've been running above that and working to get below.
But what do you think will get us down into that 200 basis points to 250 basis points in the next 12 months to 18 months? Yes.
It's mainly Brad the non-strategic portfolios.
So as I mentioned as we've embarked on that initiatives that we thought there was about $15 million a quarter associated with the non-strategic portfolio.
So we sold the student loan and the SBA portfolio.
Student loan didn't have a lot of direct costs because we outsourced most of that.
But the student loan or the SBA business benefited us in the third quarter.
And as we get through the remaining we think that that's going to be the main driver to get down into the expense ratio on top of our good asset growth.
Got it.
And then my follow-up related to the tank car issues I know there is some new standards that have come out.
How should we think about the costs associated with the potential replacement or upgrade of your existing tank cars? So the regulations haven't been totally finalized yet.
So we're still waiting to see what the final regs are but I think the way to think about it is our tank car fleet is relatively new and it has an average age of about four years.
And so whatever the final regulations come out to be it's likely that we will in fact retrofit all of our cars and we'll capitalize the cost to do that and there's plenty of life left in those cars to earn the return back on those capital expenditures.
Do you have a sense as to what the cost of retrofitting is? It's different for each type of car depending upon the  when the car was built.
And so it's  and also those numbers  the final specs haven't really come out yet.
So it's a wide range right now.
But you will be able to capitalize and pass on some of those costs to your lease partners? Yes.
And also when you compare our cars even after the retrofits they'll still be attractive versus what we estimate the cost of a new car will be.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Ken Bruce of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Scott you mentioned in your comments that there's been a pickup in new agency mandates yet the actual fee income associated with the middle market business remains kind of low relative to your targets.
What is it that you're thinking is going to get that moving? Is it just more M&amp;A deals that are actually consummated or what's kind of if you will lagging on that particular line item.
Yes.
I think it's a combination of M&amp;A activity it would be the main driver on the capital market fees.
As we've talked before a lot of the transaction today are kind of club deals and there is not a lot of opportunities to underwrite and then syndicate.
So I think being continuing to build our relationships with our clients and being in that position when the market starts to pickup is kind of what we're looking for.
Okay.
And then maybe just a clarifying comment just on the OneWest approval.
Is there anything  are there any visible milestones that we'll have to look at prior to the actual approval or non-approval or is it  is there anything that you can kind of look at that's going to give you some indication that things are progressing towards a favorable outcome there? So the process is a continual one so we have an ongoing dialogue with the regulators.
And as I said there is nothing to indicate at least at the moment that there is any issue.
But that ongoing dialogue will take place really between us and the regulators.
So there really isn't a very good milestone for you to look at other than you can see whether we continue to reiterate that we expect the deal to close in the first half of 2015 which of course we did say that today.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'll get back in the queue.
The next question comes from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
I just wanted to make sure I got the loan growth metrics right.
I mean you went from roughly $18.6 billion in loans to $19.8 billion but roughly $550 million of that is the Direct acquisition? Correct.
Okay.
So that I guess it still gives me like 3.5% linked quarter loan growth but when you look at the gross interest income on the loans it actually went down a little bit.
I mean is the yield compression really that much? Or is there a mix shift? Or is it the exiting of non-strategic portfolios? When should we start expecting to see the loan growth translate into revenue growth? Yes Chris.
I think it was a combination of what you mentioned.
So definitely on the NSP side you're going to have some of that decline especially when we sold the small business portfolio in the second quarter leading into the third quarter.
We did have  as we talked about in second quarter we did have a large prepayment in our Corporate Finance business in the second quarter.
But the overall fundamentals we have  some of the assets came on a little bit later in the quarter but I think as we kind of go into the fourth quarter the asset growth plus the utilization in the rail business will help stabilize the revenue line as we get out of the non-strategic portfolios.
And I mean I guess how  can you give us a breakdown on how big is the non-strategic portfolio.
I mean I guess I feel like it's been almost five years now since CIT emerged from bankruptcy and quite frankly I guess I would have thought one would get to the end of this a bit sooner.
And so how much is left to go and do we think it will all be more or less exited by the end of this year? Chris I mentioned in the prepared remarks we have about $500 million or $600 million remaining in the non-strategic portfolio.
We closed about a $100 million which were multiple countries in Europe earlier this month.
And then we have Mexico and Brazil.
Mexico is anticipated to close this year and Brazil since it's a regulated bank requires regulatory approval.
So we don't expect that to close this year hopefully be kind of some time first half of next year.
Okay.
And would any marks against any of those items; is there enough visibility to know what the final  to market so that it doesn't disrupt earnings into next year? What we took is you know and as I call it out as a noteworthy item.
We took a $48 million after tax charge on the assets that we have in the non-strategic portfolios.
And given we felt that was based on the best information we had around the value of the assets.
So we will have to revisit those on a quarterly basis but we think we have the majority of that covered with the charges we took in the third quarter.
Okay.
All right.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
The next question comes from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Good morning everyone and thanks for taking my call.
You talked earlier about the currency items and the deferred tax related assets.
In simple terms will that impact book value in anyway? On the CTA item it's currently in our equity in the accumulated other comprehensive income.
So when it goes through the earnings that will have a net impact of zero on the equity line so that will not impact it.
So that is  that one  in regards to  what was your other part Henry? Agee</strong> The rest of the deferred tax.
Yes.
The rest of any additional valuation adjustment will be just like in the third quarter will be an increase in both book value and tangible book value.
Agee</strong> And then in terms of headcount and sort of other going forward actions do you think your improvement rate your efficiency will more a function of revenue growth or do you think there is more cost cutting to go? I think that's going to be more on the revenue side of the asset growth.
Henry as you kind of look at what we've talked about around  once we get out of the non-strategic we've been continuing to invest in the core franchises.
And as we've had a little bit of integration elevated integration costs for both Nacco and Direct Capital.
And as we work on the OneWest I think it's really going to get the asset growth side will drive more ex the NACF from NSP.
Agee</strong> All right.
Thank you very much and thanks for your help.
Thanks Henry.
The next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
You had talked a little bit about the impacts of the charges from the non-strategic portfolios.
But if you take the non-strategic portfolios in the aircraft JV what does that do kind of to revenues and expenses as you go forward? So on the non-strategic portfolio as we called out Moshe was that if you look at the size of assets and the profitability so revenues will go down but the net profitability was negative.
So it actually improved our earnings profile as well as returned cash from international to the U.S.
that we can use to invest in our franchises.
So I think that benefit is far outweighs the revenue loss.
On the JV structure it's two things; keeping those assets on our books we think that with the management fees and the structure that we have that it'll be a good ROE enhancer.
As John mentioned it's strategic also in regards to growing our capabilities and being able to serve more customers is a benefit to the overall franchise.
So there is going to be a little bit of difference between net  rental revenue and that will be supplemented with fee income.
And you had mentioned in the prepared remarks that the increase in the provision was a combination of growth and for some specific credits.
Could you kind of flush that out a little bit I mean what types of credits and how much of it and what should we expect from growth as we go forward? Yes.
So I would say the majority of it came from asset growth in the quarter.
And then we always have as we've talked about in our portfolio if we have one or two credits that we needed to put additional reserves up the overall portfolio is stable and fine the metrics are very solid.
So it's just a nuance of the kind of portfolio that we have.
But I think majority of it was asset builds.
So as we have  continue to have receivables loan growth the reserve coverage as you see stayed around 1.8% so that's kind of our indicative reserve coverage on new business.
Great.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from Eric Beardsley of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
In terms of the OneWest deal is there any potential for the cash consideration should be funded more from cash on the balance sheet as opposed to the unsecured debt issuance that you outlined last quarter? Eric of course as we look at  as we get into next year and we look at our planning around asset growth.
If we have the opportunity to issue less debt that would be advantageous for us.
So it's something clearly we're focused on but it will be both the acquisition plus also commercial growth that we see in our different platforms will decide how much we issue at that time.
Got it.
Have any of these portfolio sales including the JV increase that probability? They were part of as we were embarking on just I think Chris made a comment it seems like it has been in the multiple years.
But yes that's always been a consideration is to free up that cash to redeploy use for capital returns or to reduce our debt cost.
So that's how we look at it.
Okay.
And how should we think about the pace of share repurchases ahead of the deal? Do you think about the remaining $450 million as last thing you through that or will you have some afterwards as well? When we committed to the $500 million it was to complete that prior to the acquisitions.
So that's still our plan.
So if you kind of look at the first half as John mentioned kind of what we're expecting I think the pacing should be commensurate with that timing.
Could you go back to the fed in between now and the deal to do more? That's a possibility but I think it really depends on where we are in the process and making sure that we focus on getting the deal closed versus kind of trying to push a little bit too hard on the capital return side.
Okay.
And then just lastly do you have any visibility into the income statement impact of all of the one timers and the portfolio sales and exits and the CTA in the fourth quarter? Well the CTA is hard because it's a very technical decision regards to when we have completed substantially the exit of the different entities that we have.
And some are equity deals and some are asset deals.
So what I think that there is a possibility that we can have up to 50% of that CTA balance could hit in the fourth quarter but the range is very wide.
It's all dependent on meeting specific trigger points.
So that's kind of the majority of what's left on the CTA side.
I think there was a previous question around the mark we took so we feel comfortable with the mark we took there could be a little bit both positive or negative hit on that depending on the final closing.
But those would be the items on the non-strategic side.
And we will have as we go through that exit depending on each one of the transactions that we've gone through there will be some incremental restructuring charges as we exit some of those non-strategic portfolios.
Got it.
At this point you couldn't size a range whether it's somewhere between X and Y in terms of dollars and millions.
If I did I'd probably be incorrect.
So I'd rather just say that there is definitely a possibility for both CTA hit restructuring charge and maybe an incremental charge as we exit the platforms.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
The next question comes from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi thanks.
I wonder if you could just provide some color around the maritime loans you booked this quarter you had pretty good growth.
Just wondered about pricing in maritime? I think pricing continues to be a good spot with maritime the structures are good.
And so I think as the team just like the real estate we were kind of -- I think they're getting good exposure in the marketplace and I would say that we feel good about the growth trajectory at the Maritime business as the teams had a period of time to really get out in the marketplace as well as kind of get the right type of transactions we're looking for.
Was there any change in sort of average size? Or types of loans you are doing? No.
No.
Okay.
Then could you just give us again kind of an update on the railcars what kind of cars did you take delivery of in the quarter? And how many tank cars do you have at this point that might need refurbishing? I think we said that the numbers of cars again depending on the regulations but our best estimate is probably around 10 000 railcars.
From a perspective of what we're taking deliveries we continue to take deliveries of both tank cars as well as sand cars.
I don't have the split David but you can follow-up with Barb if you need the details around that.
Our total tank car portfolio right now is about 25 000.
Okay.
And what's the prospect for deliveries in Europe with Nacco? The prospect  the team is doing very well.
We're focused on integrating the business I think I talked about last quarter that given the size we're able to compete on bigger transactions bigger customer transactions.
We are looking at what the growth trajectory that we're looking for in the business but we see good opportunities as the economy is kind of stable.
But we think we've got in at a good kind of place in the cycle and expect to grow the portfolio over the next couple of years.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
The next question comes from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could give a little bit more perspective on what's accounting for the compression in aircraft leasing rates.
And also discuss how much competition you're facing from private equity companies and BDCs getting into that space? On the aircraft leasing side? Yes.
Yes.
So I would say that as we've said before some of the gross yield decline has really just been the portfolio repricing and the releasing aspects of the business.
I wouldn't say as we saw we had a very elevated level of remarketing this year.
But I think that's  still the yields on the portfolio are very much in line with the industry.
So I don't think there is tremendous amount of unusuals there it's just a normal part of the portfolio repricing.
From a perspective of private equity and BDCs again that tends to be kind of on the smaller end.
I mean people can put money to work in a small size portfolio.
But that is something that where we are.
We're positioned very well with the manufacturers as we have the order book that we have and our customer diversification and then with the kind of the joint ventures that we announced in the quarter.
I think we continue to grow the franchise.
I don't see a lot of kind of impact from them at this time at least on the aircraft side.
Okay.
I had a question  follow-up question on separate topic relating to the adjusted net finance margin.
So we see it at the upper end of your range stable from last quarter.
But as we look forward I guess when you've seen a competitive pricing pressure that you have and your competition is intensifying and kind of think about the point where we're in the cycle where kind of everyone is backup post  although the significant credit losses that many lenders faced and then people are lending again.
I guess is it fair to say that kind of environment pricing usually doesn't get better again unless something happens and if that's the case then when we think about kind of where you guys are at the top of the range should we think about there being I guess gradually compressing towards the lower end of your range or I mean certainly would move higher.
Maybe any commentary around trajectory and kind of in the light of the competitive environment and kind of where we are in the cycle would be great.
Yes.
When we put out the near-term outlook we did put the margin given the economic situation.
And the competitive market we did put 3.75% to 4.25%.
My sense would be is that we've seen some stabilization in different parts of the market and the utilization continues to be very strong.
And so it's actually increased from when we kind of gave out the targets.
So I'd say that the rail and aircraft utilization is helping keep it at the levels that it is.
That will  it's not much more that can go up to your point.
But we see that as we've talked about that it could drift down to kind of the mid-point over the next year if you're trying to do that forecast.
But that would be partly the roll off of higher yielding assets and the new business being put on as lower yielding assets.
So that dynamic is happening but we do see stabilization in several of our markets.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Cheryl Pate of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow-up on the net finance margin question a little bit.
Just wondering if you can give some color maybe as to what type of economic and rate backdrop we should think about for the high-end and the low-end of the range and sort of the sensitivities there should we move into a higher rate environment particularly on the short-end? Well as we - as you know Cheryl we're asset sensitive.
So if short-term rates go up then you will get the pick up on the asset size quicker than we will have on the funding side.
But as I just mentioned to Bill some of the pieces keeping us near the high is just the utilization of the air and rail business which won't be as correlated to the interest rates but that is a dynamic that is there.
But I think it's a combination of what the rate environment is and what's the competitive marketplace around pricing that I said kind of stabilize that asset change depending on what the rate outlook kind of ends up being in the near future.
So I guess what would we need to see specifically to really be at sort of low-end of the range which is fairly significant compression from where we are today? Well I don't know if I want to give that forecast Cheryl but I would just say when we gave out the range it was kind of looking at what could happen and if pricing would continue to deteriorate and things of that sort that would be the main drivers really on the U.S.
business.
Or I would say the other thing would be if the U.S.
economy were to deteriorate which by the way we don't see so as I said in my comments we see the U.S.
economy doing better.
But if you saw a significant slowdown in the U.S.
economy that would impact the rail utilization and probably the yields as well as the Corporate Finance book.
Okay.
That's helpful.
As I said though we don't see that happening but that would be a negative.
Right right.
Okay.
And just one last one for me.
Does this near-term outlook embed the OneWest acquisition and the expected cost of funds improvement? It did not.
Remember we put these out before we announced that transaction.
So depending on the closing Cheryl I think we would come back out with updated guidance based on the transaction.
Right.
Okay.
That would be really helpful.
Thanks.
Yes.
The next question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just a couple of questions.
I mean the  when you look at Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo he has been talking about this concept of raising the CCAR threshold to above $50 billion.
And I think this Friday he is meeting with several executives from regional banks.
I know your sub-$50 billion currently.
But first I was just curious John or Scott about whether you are headed to D.C.
to meet with him related to this issue because with the acquisition of OneWest you will be a CCAR bank.
And then secondly just wanted to get a sense related to that if that $50 billion threshold is raised how much could you potentially save from an expense standpoint in terms of stress testing related expenses that you wouldn't have to incur? Well I think I'll start with the first part.
So I believe that the people invited to that meeting were all already SIFI.
So they were already over $50 billion.
Obviously to the extent that there is talk about raising that SIFI level we are very supportive of that.
The number that Governor Tarullo has mentioned before was $100 million so which we would obviously be under.
So we would be very supportive of that type of change.
So Sameer on regards to the cost I mean we still have investments given the increased size of the institution and depending on what is part of raising the limit and what activities are kind of  are pulled out of that process then we would  if there was less activity and less work then yes there is some opportunities on the expense side.
But we still believe that we want to continue to enhance several aspects of our business consistent with the size of the institution.
And the other thing which we have had said before we were anticipating that we would go over $50 billion anyways just from organic growth.
And so we have over the last couple of years been investing in the infrastructure to do that in any case.
Yes.
I mean I was trying to get a sense for some stress testing which could be just good business practice in terms of trying to figure out how the portfolio perform.
And the other part of stress testing which is more regulatory mandated kind of specific things you need to do in terms of stress testing.
So I was trying to get a sense for how much your savings might be if that threshold is raised but doesn't sound like you're willing to quantify that at this point? Correct.
Correct.
Okay.
All right.
Fair enough.
The other thing I wanted to ask was I was seeing some news articles related to your OneWest transaction and some objections raised because of loss sharing benefits that OneWest is getting and these were agreements that OneWest entered into a few years ago.
Now it's unclear to me whether these are objections that are raised regularly by groups similar to whenever an M&amp;A transaction is announced there is a slew of lawsuits announced or is this something investors should be concerned about that all of a sudden either the loss sharing will be changed or somehow this derails their transaction.
How should investors think about that? Sure Sameer.
So the first thing is these objections and the press you've seen are coming from these CRA groups.
And so these are groups that it is a normal process for them to protest transactions.
It's also a process that we anticipated.
So these are kind of expected types of protests.
We have a good CRA track record OneWest has a good CRA track record and both of us on a combined basis are committed to doing more in our local communities.
And so we very much are invested in the local communities.
So this process that you're seeing is a normal and expected process.
The loss share agreements as we talked about when we announced the transaction the most significant loss share agreement we spent a lot of time making sure was in fact transferable and that continues to be the case.
And the protests are really about CRA investment not about the loss share.
Okay.
That's helpful clarity.
And the last question I had and I am sorry I just got on the call a bit later but the timing of the valuation adjustment reversal the partial reversal I was under the impression that reversal is usually something that happens after the end of the calendar year and you filed your tax returns or have a better sense for how your taxes are going to be trued-up relative to your GAAP balance sheet and your book taxable income for purposes of the test but it seems like you've done it a bit ahead of year-end.
So clearly I was mistaken on that assumption or was it something unusual that than happened that allowed you to reverse that valuation allowance more quickly than you otherwise might have been able to do? No.
Sameer I think there are definitely taxes tend to be more of a year-end process but as we called up before it's a three-year cumulative profitability  cumulative profitability look.
And I mentioned that at the Barclays conference in September that based on some of our outlook we could hit that either in the third quarter or the fourth quarter.
So you have older years falling off and you have the profitability at the current quarters.
And once you trip that critical criteria then we had to assess other evidence related to the ability to reverse the valuation allowance.
Our assessment of those criteria were that we could do that and so the process it was able to be done based on when you meet the criteria not based on kind of a year-end closing process.
So it could happen anytime during the year it's just a matter of when you feel you've been to able to meet multiple criteria that suggest that the valuation allowance is no longer required.
And what is the other criteria that need to be matched to reverse the rest of the valuation allowance for the Federal deferred DTA? You're going to look at the suitability that profitability your ability to forecast out to the time to those NOLs get utilized you got to take into consideration economic environment trends and things of that sort.
And other I'm sorry just to clarify this quarter you did a partial reversal of your valuation allowance related to your U.S.
Federal DTA it seems like there's an another piece of it.
So were those related to this quarter some particular business lines and the other one's are related to other business lines as you evaluate your three-year profitability? I was just trying to get some sense for the difference between what's included with this reversal versus the remaining reversal? Yes.
So there's three components of our valuation allowance.
The largest that we mentioned in the deck is about $900 million that's related to our U.S.
federal taxes.
There's about another $350 million related to U.S.
state taxes that we have valuation allowances up.
And then there's about $200 million that's related to international operations.
So those are three components of the piece that was reversed this quarter relates to the U.S Federal DTA.
So Sameer what will happen is we only reverse part of it because we can only justify that based up on our own projected earnings.
Once we complete the OneWest transactions their income is almost all U.S.
taxable income.
So we'll then be able to project out a higher expected future earnings and the expectation is we'll reverse the rest of it at that point.
Okay.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Sameer.
The next question comes from Matt Schultheis of Boenning.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Quick question on the $22.8 million FX and derivatives loss in the quarter is that related to the exit of the non-strategic portfolios? There's multiple pieces on that but the main one is our TRS total return swap structure because we sold student loans out of that structure.
The unused piece is viewed as a derivative for accounting purposes and so we had a negative hit on the fact that we had the unused capacity in there at the end of the quarter.
So we think that's temporary.
We are working on refilling up the facility with assets in the fourth quarter which will then kind of readjust that derivative mark that we took in the quarter.
That was the main piece we have normal a little bit of FX is going through the line.
And then we've got a small bit of CTA related to a small country that we exited.
Okay.
And so looking forward the change in the Irish tax structure that's going to get phased-in is that going to change your approach to the air lease business does it give you guys a competitive advantage or competitive disadvantage and how do you think it impacts the industry? Yes.
The change in the Irish rules don't relate to the structure that the aircraft leasing businesses have that was kind of look through double.
Our aircraft are actually domiciled in Ireland our infrastructures in Ireland and all the income that we earn on the business is taxed in Ireland.
Okay.
And the structures you're hearing about is not consistent with kind of the approach we have for our business.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris Brendler of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus</strong> Hi.
Thanks good morning.
Scott just on the margin outlook.
Again can you just talk it all about how much of that would be on the gross yield side? And the competitive environment not necessarily  I think we talked about transportation.
But I'm focused on Corporate Finance and Equipment it looks like Equipment came down quite a bit on the gross yield this quarter I'm assuming that Direct Capital.
And Corporate seems to be bouncing around like a quarter  last quarter and came back down this quarter.
What contributes to the volatility and if you just comment on how much of the yield or the NIM compression you're looking from near term comes from the gross yield side.
Thanks.
Hey Chris I'd say on the Corporate Finance when you look at the quarterly trend second quarter as I mentioned we did have an accelerated recovery interest recovery on a loan so that kind of distorts the kind of the trend line I would say that excluding that the trend over the last four five quarters has been fairly stable right which is really just the mix issue.
On the Equipment Finance side actually Direct Capital has higher yields than the core Equipment Finance business that was existing here.
So some of that is just the competitive pressures in the U.S.
in regards to our small ticket Equipment Finance business.
We also mentioned that we see some of that kind of stabilizing also.
So it has come down but we see a kind of stabilizing there.
So that's kind of the  the view is that we're going to have a little bit of  it doesn't take much to have the quarterly variability based on some of the actions that we've talked about.
But we think there is stability in the yield line.
And then the pressure is really that's going to be normal how much new business we put on versus how of the old book runs off and that mix is very hard to forecast.
It's really dependent on kind of the market environment.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
That leads to actually very well into my follow-up question which was on prepayment activity and how much of that old stuff is running off naturally or it's worse getting prepaid.
I think we talked about the Investor Day that the prepayments had slowed a little bit.
I'm calculating a little bit of a pickup in runoff this quarter but nothing huge.
If you can just talk about the prepayment it sounded like we were seeing some stabilization some improvement how to look at this quarter? Yes.
I think we've seen stabilization on the Corporate Finance book but as I called out in my prepared remarks the real-estate business given the lot of money kind of back into the real estate market we did have some loans prepay in the real estate business in the quarter that was something  the first signs we've seen that as we built the business.
So that's the area not that Corporate Finance area.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
And then last sort of housekeeping type question do you expect to still disclose and talk about economic earnings or give us a sense of the cash taxes number so we can continue to focus on a better true measure of your profitability once we have the full tax impact in 2015? We disclosed  it's in the Q right today in regards to the cash flow statements.
So it does talk about what the cash taxes we paid but I think Chris we will kind of make sure that information is available because I think as you said from an economic point of view that's kind of how we are trying to run the business to ensure that we utilize the NOL and get the benefit both the capital benefits and the cash benefits of using the NOL.
Nicolaus</strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
The next question is a follow-up from Ken Bruce of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you again.
My follow-up relates to the JV specifically if you could help us understand the rationale behind that is that leveraging CTLs origination platform or is it more of a lower cost of funds that ultimately you're able to leverage through this joint venture if you could just give us a little bit better understanding around that? I think you mentioned both of them so I think both of those but I think it's the local relationships that CTL has in Asia plus we do have lower level  they have lower cost of funds than we do.
So both those were very valuable inputs in for the joint venture and then we partnered that with our  kind of our origination and asset management capabilities.
So we think it's a good partnership.
And essentially that you're accomplishing which you can accomplish in the U.S.
aerospace business with the bank effectively providing that cheaper cost funds to  you point out that there was some pressure on leasing rates in aerospace.
And I'm wondering if this is trying to kind of get around some of that pressure that you see that maybe appearing globally? No.
I think it's an ability to continue to grow the franchise from an optimizing both our on-book and off kind of using  getting some additional capacities to grow the business leveraging this partnership.
I don't think  it's not a matter that the yield and kind of pressures on different aircraft is going to be something that that goes through this  the cycle which is more of a supply and demand.
But the overall macro for the aircraft leasing market is very positive.
And this just helps us get a increased exposure in our Asian platform.
Okay.
And then there has been a lot of discussion around these maritime portfolios in the European banks.
And John you've spoken in the past that they didn't see a lot of activity there for various reasons.
Has the AQR you're saying changed the calculus around any of those portfolios possibly making their way out into the marketplace and separately if it was a large portfolio that became available.
Could you structure something similar to what you're doing on the JV side in aerospace in the maritime area? So in terms of  the part of your question we have not seen any willingness on the part of the European banks to sell any significant pieces of their portfolio.
So at least so far it doesn't seem to have that effect.
If there was a big portfolio either  we would buy the parts of it that we like which is the more likely one or could we structure joint venture like the aircraft one? Sure.
That would certainly be an option if it was a particularly big portfolio.
Okay great.
Thank you.
That was it.
The next question comes from Vincent Caintic of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks and good morning.
On the Century Tokyo JV I was wondering if you could give us a sense for how much CIT's fee income could grow as the JV grows to its target I believe it was a $2 billion in assets by 2016 if you could give us a sense for the economics that'd be great? Yes.
I mean we talked  I'm not going to give you specifics around kind of what that would be.
But we do see a good fee income stream from the JV and as it grows our fees will increase as the JV grows.
So we can get into more details but I think it's fair to say that the economics for both parties are attractive and we see this as a good enhancement of the returns in the transportation business.
Okay.
Got it.
Switching to the tank cars do you know what the average remaining lease duration is of those 10 000 tank cars you mentioned? John mentioned we have a fairly new portfolio on the tank cars between what we've ordered and even some of the ones that were pre-order.
I don't have the exact number of top of my head but I would say it's probably less than 10 years.
But as we mentioned before is that the analysis really on the economics is what's the retro fit cost how long can you amortize that cost relative to the lease rates that you'll get on that versus buying.
And so based on the age of our tank cars we believe right now based on our interpretation that would be better economically to make the CapEx investment versus the cost of what new railcars might be.
And also even on cars that are already under lease the leases typically have provisions in them.
If we're required to make capital investments in the car we can adjust the lease rates.
Okay.
Got it.
And just the last one for me and this is a broader one on North American Commercial Finance.
So if you could give us a forward look say two years from now after the OneWest deal closes how North American Commercial Finance is going to look like? So what sort of products on the consumer and commercial side you'll be having? And then also what's helping the earnings mix could be relative to the Transportation segment? And that's all for me.
Thank you.
Well I would say that the North American Commercial Finance will be much bigger much bigger right? So if you kind of look at that  the current commercial portfolio is around $5 billion and so that continues to grow as the legacy portfolio amortizes off.
And then there was a comment they do some jumbo mortgages out of their branch banking networks.
So our expectation is that's complementary to the branch strategy and so we see that as a go forward product.
I would say the size of that is not going to be anywhere near the size of the commercial franchise so that would just be something to support our branch network.
So I would say that I can't give you the exact math of that but the North American Commercial Finance will be at least kind of 50-50 or we'll see based on the growth opportunities.
Great.
Thanks so much guys.
Final and last question comes from Bill Carcache.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
As a follow-up I was hoping that you could discuss the timeframe over which you guys would expect to enjoy the regulatory capital benefit of the DTA recapture? The timeframe well I think the  on the regulatory capital point of view as I mentioned you don't get the regulatory benefit for that when you have exposed DTA.
So I think the way we kind of talked about it as part of the OneWest transaction is the faster you use the NOL actually get taxable income that builds regulatory capital to get closer to your book capital.
So the whole focus is on utilizing the NOL so that you have the  you get the regulatory capital benefit from that.
And so that's one of the bigger if we talked about with the profitability profile  the U.S.
profitability profile of the OneWest transaction.
Got it.
Thank you.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Drew.
And thank you everyone for joining this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact me or any member of the Investor Relations team.
You can find our contact information along with other information on CIT in the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.cit.com.
Thanks again for your time and have a great day.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keith and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only-mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session later in the call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Keith.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's fourth quarter and year-end 2014 earnings conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO and Scott Parker our CFO.
After John and Scott's prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the call queue if you have any additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have remaining this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2013 Form 10-K.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Also as part of the call this morning we will be referencing a presentation that is available in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning and thank you all for being on the call.
We appreciate you braving the snow to be on the call this morning.
We had a very good fourth quarter.
We reported $250 million of net income or $1.37 a share.
But please listen to Scott when he covers the benefit in the quarter from discrete asset sales.
All of our businesses performed well in the quarter.
We originated $2.9 billion of funded volume.
Our factoring volume was 7.4 billion which was up 10% from the prior quarter and up 9% from the prior year.
Our maritime finance portfolio reached a $1 billion.
Both our railcars and our commercial aircraft were 99% leased.
We sold the first group of aircraft into the Century Tokyo Leasing CIT Aviation joint venture.
And both Nacco and Direct Capital which were acquisition that were completed earlier in the year performed well in the fourth quarter.
Our credit metrics remained stable at historically low levels and we continue to return capital to our shareholders both through dividends and share repurchase.
Our book value per share grew to over $50 at December 31st and our tangible book was $46.83.
On our combination with OneWest we continue to believe the transaction is on track to close in the first half of this year.
The commentary from some of the California based community reinvestment groups was not unexpected.
We and OneWest remained committed to substantial investments of both time and money in our communities.
On our exposure to lower oil prices in our North American commercial finance business we have approximately $500 million of loan exposure 80% of which is secured.
We have reviewed this portfolio on a name-by-name basis and we will continue to review it to ensure that we're adequately reserved.
In our North American transportation business we have approximately 19 000 tank cars that carry flammable liquids of which 12 000 carry crude.
We also have approximately 9 000 sand cars.
Both our tank cars and our sand cars currently have strong utilization rates and are typically on long-term leases.
So any impact on lease rates which so far have been stable would row in over multiple years.
As we begin 2015 we're focused on expanding our commercial banking franchise through the completion of the OneWest transaction maintaining our credit discipline through the business cycle growing our business franchises with attractive risk adjusted returns utilizing our NOLs and continuing to return capital to our shareholders.
I'll now turn the call over to Scott to give you more details.
Thank you John and good morning to everyone.
CIT reported full year 2014 net income $1.1 billion and EPS of $5.96 which includes over $400 million of reversals of the valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset.
As John mentioned 2014 was a good year and we made progress on our strategic priorities.
Our commercial franchises grew 8% organically and 12% overall.
Our recent acquisitions Nacco and Direct Capital are performing well and we are progressing with the OneWest integration planning.
We have either sold or signed definitive sale agreements on the non-strategic platforms and decided this quarter to sell the remaining small-ticket equipment assets in the UK.
We grew deposits by 27% from a year ago.
This growth moved deposits to 46% of total fundings and contributed to the decline in funding cost of more than 20 basis points.
Our credit metrics remained stable and our non-performing loans are now less then 1% of finance receivables.
And we distributed nearly $900 million of excess capital $95 million in dividends and $775 million through repurchase of common shares.
And since the start of this year we have repurchased an additional 4 million shares for approximately $180 million.
While our annual performance was inline with a 2% pre-tax ROE target we discussed at Investor Day we have experienced some quarterly variability.
Turning to slide 2 of the presentation fourth pre-tax income increased to $222 million which represents a pre-tax ROA of 2.6% reflecting the performance of our commercial franchises offset by our portfolio repositioning activities.
As detailed in slide 3 of the presentation the fourth included benefits related to discrete asset sales in our commercial franchises that are unlikely to recur at similar levels.
These activities positively impacted net finance margin the credit provision and other income.
Excluding the gains from these discrete asset sales the performance of our commercial franchises was relatively unchanged from the third quarter adjusted pre-tax ROA of 2.2%.
As noted on page 4 of our presentation there was net pre-tax charge of $17 million from the portfolio repositioning in the quarter.
And we expect the future impact of this activity to be driven primarily by the recognition of currency translation adjustments in earnings as we complete our legal entity exits.
This quarter also benefited from the reversal of an international tax valuation allowance.
Now I'd like to move to our operating segments.
Our Transportation &amp; International Finance segment had a strong quarter generating $185 million of pre-tax income which represents a 3.9% pre-tax ROA.
For the year pre-tax income was $612 million with a 3.4% pre-tax ROA.
The results reflected continued high utilization in both the air and rail leasing businesses growth in the loan portfolio and benefits from our strategic initiatives.
During the fourth quarter we sold about $300 of the $500 million targeted-seed portfolio to the aerospace JV and we expect to sell the remainder in the first quarter.
We also completed the sale of our $350 million UK corporate lending portfolio.
While these sales will dampen net finance margin they will be accretive to long-term return on equity.
Despite these asset sales assets grew $2.6 billion or 16% from a year ago with growth in all of our transportation divisions.
In aerospace as John mentioned utilization continues to be strong at 99%.
All of our 2015 and nearly two-thirds of our 2016 deliveries are placed.
Lease rates on new aircraft are attractive and renewal rents are generally stable.
Lease rates on new aircraft  the decrease in the aerospace portfolio yield reflects a larger proportion of lending in the portfolio and the reversion to industry averages in our leasing business which we expect to continue in 2015.
In rail utilization is at all time high  utilization is at an all time high and renewal rents continue to average above expiring rates.
However that differential is narrowing.
We have not seen any impact from the decline in oil as John mentioned but we are closely watching that trend and related developments.
All of our tank cars delivering in 2015 are placed and fewer than 2015 tank cars used to transport crude expire this year.
Our maritime portfolio is grown to over $1 billion and we are pleased with the quality of the loans.
We have nearly 30 clients and the average loan to value is less than 50%.
In summary Transportation &amp; International Finance has good momentum going into 2015 but there is a fair amount of uncertainty in the global environment.
That said we have a seasoned team that has managed through many cycles and the long-term industry fundamentals still remain favorable.
Turning to North American Commercial Finance reported pre-tax income was $122 million which represents a 3.4% pre-tax ROA.
The quarter benefited from a large refinancing and syndication of problem loan as well as gains on our equity investments sold to comply with the Volcker Rule.
For 2014 NACF earned $390 million [ph] before taxes or 2.3% pre-tax ROA which included several work-out related benefits over the course of the year.
Excluding some of these event driven benefits pre-tax ROA was more inline with our expectations for the business of 1.5% to 2% ROA.
Assets grew by 8% from a year ago or 5% excluding Direct Capital and we originated about $1.6 billion of loans and leases inline with the third quarter.
While the market remains competitive we have maintained our underwriting and portfolio management discipline.
We remain focused on leveraging our strong relationships as well as our industry and product expertise to identify opportunities to generate attractive returns and growth either organically or through acquisitions.
Corporate Finance continues to benefit from their strong private equity sponsor relationships.
New business pricing remain stable but we continue to see pressure on deal term and structure.
While overall middle-market loan volume growth was modest at best we continue to gain market share and win more agency roles as demonstrated by our move into the top 10 of the middle-market sponsored lead tables.
Competition in the commercial real estate market has increased which along with a favorable CMBS market has resulted in an elevated level of prepayment and created a challenge to portfolio growth.
In response to this market trend as well as some concentrations in our portfolio our team is expanded its geographic footprint and diversified the type of properties financed.
For instance we recently provided a financing to a Class A warehouse and distribution center at a site in Pennsylvania that is ideally situated for fulfillment and distribution.
The equipment finance market remains competitive in some of the more traditional areas such as office products.
We continue to look at new opportunities to use our industry expertise and servicing capabilities enhanced by direct capital which is already exceeding our expectations.
We expect the combination of the low cost customer acquisition via Direct Capital's LendEdge platform and lower deposits funding to enhance our profitability and returns in the segment.
Commercial Services continues to successfully expand into higher growth non-apparel sectors and had very strong volume quarter.
In the year ahead we look to capitalize on opportunities to further expand our product offerings including introducing the LendEdge product to our commercial services large client base.
In summary the segment continues to prudently grow in a competitive market while maintaining underwriting discipline.
Turning to page 5 of the presentation on our key profitability metrics we anticipate asset growth at the low end of the range with commercial franchise growth consistent with 2014 levels partially offset by the impact of sales on the non-strategic portfolios and the UK equipment finance assets.
Based on the current environment we expect to continue to generate the pre-tax ROA of around 2% excluding the impact of the CTA charges I mentioned earlier.
We will revisit these profitability targets after the complete the OneWest acquisition.
So in summary we continue to focus on our strategic priorities in creating long-term value of our shareholders.
Our business franchises have performed well and continue to originate assets with attractive risk adjusted returns.
We have maintained disciplined underwriting and credit performance is stable.
Our capital and liquidity positions remain strong and we have returned excess capital to our shareholders.
All these actions contributed to nearly a 10% growth in our tangible book value in 2014 to $46.83 per share.
With that I'll turn it back to Keith and we'll take your questions.
Yes thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
It's actually the detail on your  rail business is actually quite helpful.
Could you just maybe expand a little bit in terms of your thoughts about the prospects post 2016? How you think about anything about that business and the risk of cars coming off lease and what you've got in the order book? Thanks.
Okay.
Moshe I'd say that 2016 I think the question is depending on the longevity and severity of the oil prices being down at this level.
As it translates if you're talking about 2015 if they stay at this level I think the drivers would be mainly around utilization and potentially lease rates.
One of the things that also should be taken into consideration that the newer cars will probably be more attractive than some of the older tank cars.
So as you know with our portfolio we have mostly newer tank cars and have a very small proportion of our portfolio in the older tank cars.
But those dynamics will play out depending on how long this happens and how much actual production declines where we havent seen a lot of that production may not increase but the question would be is how much would production decrease and the implications on overall demand for those type of cars.
Moshe the other impact in the tank car market will be we do expect some time over the course of this year that they will finalize their regulations on the tank cars and the retrofit of the existing tank cars will take a certain number of tank cars out of the marketplace.
And so its a little bit hard to know exactly because we dont know what time frame yet those cars are going to have to be retrofit.
But whatever time frame that is some percentage of the tank cars will get taken out of the market because of that.
Maybe could you just update us as to what percentage of yours would be in that and what you think the cost per car would be? Yes.
We really dont know yet because the regulations havent been finalized.
We do have a mix of newer and older tank cars and  but overall our cars are relatively new.
So our expectation is we will in fact retrofit them but we dont yet have a good estimate of what the cost is per car.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Sameer Gokhale from Janney Capital.
Hi.
Thank you and good morning.
If you could just remind us how much you anticipate selling in terms of planes to the joint venture going forward that would be helpful.
I mean have you committed to some sort of annual target or other types of target in terms of planes that you will sell? That would help us size potential future gains would come from that.
Yes.
Sameer so as I mentioned with the seed aircraft that we're selling into the JV is a little bit around $500 million.
And so we did about 60% of that in the fourth quarter and we expect the remaining to close in the first quarter.
I was looking more longer term Scott since this is a joint venture should we assume that beyond the $500 million you'll have additional sales also to the joint venture on some sort of regular basis? That's what I was more curious about.
No I think thats possible but I think the seed capital is kind to get the JV structured and up going.
And I think from there they will kind of grow the business within the JV commensurate with purchases outside of  just from CIT and also placing new orders with the manufacturers.
So its kind of independent kind of JV thats focused on growing their business.
But time-to-time its possible to do that but the original piece was put the seed capital in there to get it going.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just another question in terms of the commercial real estate expansion.
I think you had brought on a pretty seasoned team of people to kind of manage and grow that business.
So based on your announced expansion I think you mentioned somewhere in Pennsylvania should we assume additional expansion into other geographies? Can you give us a little background? Has this team lent to anybody in that region before is this a completely new thing for them.
That would be helpful? Thank you.
Yes.
I think thats  as you said we do have seasoned team and we continue to invest in with Matt in the team in regards to the portfolio.
I wouldnt say this a large adjacency Sameer its just kind of looking in the marketplace using our expertise to high grade real estate properties.
And as you know with OneWest they also have a real estate business thats kind of more west coast focused.
So I think there is definitely a lo of opportunities post closing of OneWest to leverage the capabilities of both CIT as well as OneWest to look at additional growth opportunities in the real estate area.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Hi thank you.
I was wondering if you could just comment on OpEx trends and when we would start to see the benefit from the non-strategic portfolios going away and what the right level is to think about longer term? Yes.
Eric I would say that again our focus is to get to the kind of high end of the range.
I think on the fourth quarter we had a good trend.
In the fourth quarter we had a little bit blip up.
Part of that was cost of some of these strategic exits that we announced in regards to retention for the timing between signing and closing.
We also had some additional cost related to the integrations of Direct Capital and Nacco and some increases in some professional fees around that.
So thats one piece of it.
The quarter also had in it  we closed Direct Capital in August so we also had another month of the full quarter of expenses for Direct Capital.
We had a little bit of increase in our bank deposit funding marketing cost.
And then we had a little bit of increase in compensation.
So I'd say that if you take out the NSP non-strategic portfolios we will be near the high end of the range.
And so as we exit as we  John mentioned at the Goldman Mexico was planned to exit in the first quarter and then Brazil will probably be kind of late second quarter maybe third quarter depending on regulatory approval.
But if we  its still the benefit from those NSP exits is still online with what I mentioned before about the run rate.
So we  we said it was going to be about $50 million per quarter run rate when we exited all those and based on when those will happen we will achieve that.
Its just  its going depend on the actual closure or sale of those remaining assets that we have.
Got it.
And then just on your earning asset growth guidance you talked about gains at the lower end of the range on an organic basis.
Just wondering if you could comment on where you're looking for portfolio acquisition what type of asset classes? Yes actually I'll clarify that.
What I was trying to say is the organic is going to still be around that 7% or 8% that we had this year and to get down to more of the 5% is because of the sales of Mexico Brazil as well as the UK small ticket equipment business.
So thats kind of what we are kind of saying overall the reported growth will be around 5%.
Okay.
And are you still looking to do portfolio acquisitions in addition to the OneWest deal or are you just focused on that now? We're focused on the OneWest and the other Direct Capital and Nacco but there are some portfolios out there we're constantly looking.
I'd say some of the pricing for those have not been attractive to us.
But we continue to look for other ways to build out our franchises and we will continue to do that.
Yes.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from David Hochstim with Buckingham Research.
Could you give us more of an update on growth at Nacco? Have you had much growth there yet? Then I have a follow up.
I would say that we've been successful in  as I've mentioned before in the calls of growing the portfolio with the  as private company and given kind of our capital base and funding cost.
So we've grown in very prudently.
We like what we've been able.
We won some larger accounts over the last year and we continue to look at areas to grow even faster than we have been able to grow in the first nine months far.
We're very happy with the progress and the growth rates of the portfolio.
And we've also been improving the utilization rates of their rail cars.
Okay.
And then could you just give us some guidance on the tax  effective tax rate? Yes.
I think our best estimate as you know its going into 2015 US earnings will be taxed at the marginal rate of 35% and then our international will be dependent on what region its in.
Our current estimate right now would be around the 30% still and any variation from the 30% will be the mix of US earnings versus international earnings.
And then NOL utilization what's reasonable per quarter? Yes.
We had modest taxable  US taxable income in 2014.
We expect that to continue and then post OneWest as we mentioned thats  their portfolio is predominantly US income with very little kind of deferred item.
So it will just drop to taxable income.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Brad Ball with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
Just back on the lower oil prices I wonder if you could reconcile your comments about $500 million of North American commercial finance exposure with your third quarter Q which showed about $1.3 billion in oil and gas and another $1.5 billion in energy and utility exposure? Could you talk more broadly about your exposure to the oil decline? Yes.
The oil and gas in the Q Brad would include the rail car and then the other piece on the utilities is really kind of not really linked to oil.
I mean its our project finance business and thats really around utilities and kind of gas fired co-gen facilities of that type of stuff.
Okay.
So in terms of direct loan exposure the net number is $500 million then? Its about $500 million you're correct.
Okay.
And then separately on the  well still on oil but on the aircraft portfolio could you just let us know what kind of discussions you've been having recently with your clients.
With the decline in oil prices have we seen any slowdown in demand for your new technology aircrafts? Have you been able to sign any new lease agreements in the last couple of months on the more efficient A320neos or 737 MAXs? So in general there has not been any significant change in the demand for the new technology aircraft.
I think you have to remember that these  first of all these new technology aircraft are just beginning to be delivered.
And so they won't get delivered  really they get delivered over the course of the next 5 years.
There are also aircraft that are going to be in use for the next 20 plus years.
And so the efficiencies of these aircraft people are  airlines are not expecting oil to stay some $50 a barrel for the next 20 years.
And so the advantages of the aircraft is over a much longer period of time and the expectation is that they will still continue to be attractive and there is always a demand for the newest technology aircraft.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
If I could just sneak in one quick one Scott? What was the dollar amount of the gain on the discrete asset sales in the quarter? Dollar gain its said on the chart its about 85 basis points.
Brad I'll have to get  Barb to get back to you on that one.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you just discuss the growth outlook maybe a little bit more in detail on the corporate finance side of the business? You typically see a better fourth quarter on a seasonal basis in the commercial finance business.
And corporate in particular looks to be the area of weakness.
Is it pre-payment activity again or is it more just not seeing enough demand on the corporate side? I think its combination of both.
I mean remember last fourth quarter we had some activity was pulled into the fourth quarter from the first quarter.
The pipeline is pretty good going into 2015.
But I would say that the overall kind of in the middle market the loan growth is not being great.
So as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we're continuing to find areas to grow in the business.
But the growth rate is a little bit muted right now in the corporate finance area.
And along those lines I think you'd highlighted fracking and oil and gas as an opportunity for growth in the past.
Is that going to have a meaningful impact on the growth as you slow that business or are you slowing your investment in that business at this point? I think at least in the mid ticket equipment finance business with the CapEx reductions that have been announced that would be an area that we'd see some softness in 2015 relative to some of the past trends because that was an area that we were involved in.
But I wouldnt say it would be a large piece but it does  it is an area that we'll  we think there is going to be softness in 2015.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
And then just one last one if I could squeeze it in? On OneWest its been quite awhile since you announced that deal and I'm sure this call is not the right opportunity to reexamine what the financial impact will be.
But as we get closer to hopefully approval there are you planning on giving us an updated financial outlook on what these two companies look like together? Yes.
I think we would do that most likely kind of after closing as we kind of came out with new targets and give a perspective on the combined entity.
I think trying to do it prior to closing would be a little bit premature.
Okay.
Thanks.
Looking forward to it.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A lot of banks are talking about how pricing has become so thin on their commercial loans in this environment that their decision to lend is really a function of their relationship with certain clients.
And what they view as their ability to generate fee income in other product areas given that the profitability on the loans that they are making today is at such thin spreads that they aren't very attractive on their own.
So I was hoping that you could talk about how that dynamic is unfolding inside of CIT and whether you're finding it more difficult to compete on the basis of your product offerings given the thin profitability that's out there on the lending side? Well what I would say is similar to others I mean we definitely are as I mentioned very focused on our relationships and building out our relationships and ensuring that the business that we're putting on meets our risk adjusted returns.
So as a previous question was that that may mean that loan growth may not be at the same pace that we've seen in the last couple of years.
But we are clearly focused on ensuring that the business both the loans plus some of the fee income around supporting those and other opportunities with those customers that we maximize that to improve our overall profitability.
I would also that the pricing in the middle market space is not been as severe as in the bigger company space.
And so I dont think we've seen that same level of thinness on pricing in the middle market space.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thats really helpful.
And if I may last question just separately different topic.
There was a lot of noise this quarter but I was just hoping that you could help us strip some of that out as we think about your earnings power going forward? Just from a high level your stocks trading below tangible book suggesting that the market doesn't believe that you guys can generate returns that are sufficient to cover your cost of equity.
Just again high level if we use a 13% capital minimum that you guys agreed to with regulators when you became a bank holding company that would imply an asset to equity ratio of about 7.7 times.
If we multiply that by your pre-tax ROE of 2% that suggests that you're earning a pre-tax ROE of around 15%.
But on an after-tax basis it's only about a 10% return.
So I think most people would view a 15% return as relatively attractive but a 10% return as being barely enough to cover your cost of equity.
So that kind of leads to the question that we've been getting from investors.
And is the reason that someone would want to own CIT purely due to that tax benefit? I'd love to hear how you would respond to that and maybe talk a little bit about whether the earnings power of the business model you think is strong enough that you'll eventually be able to get your GAAP ROAs to at least that 2% level? Okay.
Well that was a long question.
I'd see if we can kind of break it.
I think the presentation when you get a chance to look at the presentation we did try to highlight some of the discrete natures.
And over the last couple of quarters we've been doing the same thing.
So if you look at the commercial franchise its kind of been in the 2.2% pre-tax ROA business and we've had some negative impact of some of the portfolio repositioning of getting out of our non-strategic portfolios.
So as you kind of drift into 2015 we will have some noise in the non-strategic portfolio around some of the CTA charges that I mentioned.
But the core franchise as we've mentioned will kind of stay in that around the 2% at the franchise perspective.
I think in order to  as we mentioned as part of the OneWest deal and what we think we can get on a pre-tax ROA and a pre-tax ROE basis you're correct that on an after tax basis given the NOL that we have and the reversal the deferred tax asset we will have to accelerate the utilization of the NOLs that builds regulatory capital faster than our book equity.
Right so its already 100% in our book equity we dont get the benefit in our regulatory capital.
So as we accelerate the utilization of the NOL thats how you get the parity of getting the after tax ROE inline with our cost of capital.
I would also say I would hope that our investors as well as all of you covering us can look through our GAAP numbers and since we obviously dont pay taxes in the US and won't pay taxes in the US for a long time I think our pre-tax ROEs are more indicative of the real economics of the business than the after tax GAAP ROEs.
Thank you very much for answering my questions.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to touch upon the net finance margin the guidance.
I think we've been towards the top end of the range for a long period of time now and have talked about interest recoveries and suspended depreciation and some of these benefits fading.
I guess maybe could you just provide some more color on sort of how you see that trajectory towards the middle point of the range? And then secondly what would it really take to get to the low end of the range at this point? Yes.
So I would say Cheryl there is couple of things.
So the items that we highlighted on  in the supplemental presentation these benefits that we've had like on the interest recoveries and prepayments some of those were some of the restructurings and the work-outs that we did and those are very hard to predict and they just when they happen they do provide an uplift into the net finance margin.
What I'd say is that we've seen less prepayments on our corporate finance and now we're seeing a little bit as I mentioned in real estate.
So part of that there is going to be a portion probably going forward of prepayments that becomes stabilized or the way it would go to nothing would be as if rates go up and people are not refinancing their loans earlier that might dissipate.
On the suspended depreciation there is two elements of that one is the assets that we're selling so some of the non-strategic portfolios have operating leases and that is a phenomenon that we've gone through as you remember back a couple years ago where we suspend depreciation so that the margin is higher and then we have an offsetting impairment in other income.
And that was elevated on the last couple of quarters because of the aircraft we had in held for sale for seeding the JV as well as some of the assets that we have in the non-strategic portfolio.
So as those kind of dissipate I think thats will be what would bring down the net finance margin in the near term is really the suspended depreciation.
Okay.
And then just secondly on the aircraft yields can you just maybe provide a little bit more color on what has really been driving the sequential decrease over the course of the year? Is it really more lending versus leasing? Is it to do with the asset sales and the JV? Maybe if you can just help us size that a little bit? Its a combination of both.
So part of it is the greater proportion of lending in the portfolio and two is that some of the leases that we had that are renewing were at above  reached out above market yields.
And so when you kind of get back to market you are getting a little bit of impact of that.
But still if you look at the yield its very consistent with the industry.
So we feel thats a very good performance.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Vincent Caintic with Macquarie.
Hi good morning guys.
I have a few questions centered around your thoughts on energy exposure across your business and I'll break it up into three pieces.
First on the North American commercial finance wanted to confirm that that $500 million loan exposure is just for oil and gas extraction? And then also if you could let us know how much exposure OneWest has and how has provisioning been affected by oil prices? And then secondly on rail specifically one of your rail car leasing peers actually last Thursday gave pretty positive 2015 outlook for rail car demand.
And so I was wondering what you've been seeing in terms of discussions with your lessees and orders? And then how have used car prices been doing? And then finally on aircraft leasing you're the first guys the aircraft clusters to report.
How has the order book been affected if there's been any repositioning orders and also how have used aircraft prices been affected? Appreciate it.
Okay.
So I will  Scott and I will divide it up a little bit I guess.
So let's go backwards.
So first in terms of aircraft order book there hasnt been any impact on the aircraft order book.
And its really goes to the  what I said before which is the newer technology aircraft are going to get delivered over multiple years and they are viewed as 20 plus year assets.
And so we have not seen an impact on the aircraft order books.
In terms of the $500 million of exposure that is to both E&amp;P and oil field services.
Actually its more oil field services than it is E&amp;P and as we said we have reviewed that portfolio name-by-name and are comfortable with how thats reserved and we'll continue to review it.
But its  it is actually more oil field services than it is actual E&amp;P.
On the rail cars I'd say that we havent seen any impact on our growth as I've mentioned all the cars that we have committed in 2015 are already leased.
We dont see at least today we dont see any impact on pricings.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks that the renewal rates are still above expiring rates on things that are coming back.
So the piece would be is that we dont see any differences between some of the peer that you mentioned in regards to trends and its a longer cycle business so its going to take some time for things to kind of change in the portfolio if oil stays down at the level that is today.
And the last piece of the question you asked was about OneWest energy exposure and OneWest as a non-public company.
We cannot comment on that.
Obviously when the transaction is completed we can comment on it but not until then.
Got it.
Okay.
And just one final point on the aircraft.
With lower energy prices have you seen any effects on the used aircraft prices? In particular I'm interested in the I guess the gain on sales that you could be realizing for the sales to the JV? Thanks.
Not really we dont tend to have the much older aircraft that presumably would be somewhat more benefited by lower energy prices.
And so I would say no not really.
Got it.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
And as there are no questions at the present time I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing comments.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to give me a call or any member of the Investor Relations team.
You can find our contact information along with other information on CIT in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Thanks again for your time and have a great day.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kate and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session later in the call.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Kate.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After John and Scott's prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the call queue if you have additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2014 Form 10-K.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Also as part of the call this morning we will be referencing a presentation that is available in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning and thank you all for being on the call.
We reported pre-tax income for the quarter of $148 million and net income of $104 million.
The pre-tax income was higher than the prior year but below our fourth quarter 2014 number.
This quarter was impacted by lower profitability in our North American Commercial Finance business and by lower utilization rates in our transportation businesses.
The utilization rate in commercial air declined to 97% as we took aircraft back early from three troubled airlines.
We are actively working to redeploy these aircraft.
We completed the second piece of the sale of aircraft into TC-CIT Aviation which is our joint venture with Century Tokyo Leasing.
Utilization in rail declined to 98% which is still a very attractive level and renewal rates remain above expiring levels.
We ordered 2 200 new railcars to be delivered in 2016 and 2017.
And we purchased approximately 1 000 railcars in Nacco which is our European rail business.
Our Corporate Finance business experienced lower originations and lower portfolio yields; the lower portfolio yield primarily due to the absence of interest recoveries.
The completion of the OneWest transaction with its lower deposit cost and expanded commercial banking capabilities should improve the profitability of this business.
Both Direct Capital and our equipment finance businesses generated strong new business volumes.
The overall credit quality of our portfolio remains stable.
The consecutive quarterly increase in non-accrual loans was primarily due to one energy-related account.
We continue to review our energy loans on a name-by-name basis to monitor the impact of lower energy prices.
Our capital and liquidity positions remain strong and we will return additional capital to our shareholders.
We continue to target the completion of our OneWest transaction in the middle of this year.
And we are exploring the various opportunities created by the GE announcement to divest much of GE Capital.
However we will have nothing specific to discuss on this call.
With that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning to everyone.
CIT reported first quarter net income of $104 million or $0.59 per diluted share.
On a pre-tax income basis we made $148 million.
Our GAAP tax provision is now around 30% up from around 10% last year given the reversal of the valuation allowance.
As we have highlighted in the past our quarterly earnings will be somewhat variable given the transactional nature of some of our businesses and the impact of executing on our strategic initiatives.
This quarter's operating performance was impacted by a lower level of activity in the middle market and the absence of interest recoveries on loans in our North American Commercial Finance segment as well as additional aircraft off-lease and losses related to our UK business in the Transportation &amp; International Finance segment.
As John just mentioned we continue to proactively monitor our energy portfolios.
This quarter we increased our reserve slightly for one account.
We've included a slide in the appendix of the earnings presentation with some additional details.
We made progress in some key areas as we position the company to achieve our near-term targets.
Assets in our commercial franchise grew 7% from a year ago.
Deposits are now over 50% of our fundings which has helped reduce our interest cost by 8 basis points.
Credit metrics remain at cycle lows.
And we've returned nearly $360 million through share repurchases and dividends.
And our board of directors recently approved an additional $200 million repurchase authorization.
Turning to page three of the presentation excluding the portfolio repositioning the pre-tax return on assets of our commercial franchise was 1.9% slightly below our near-term outlook and down from prior quarters.
We continue to find ways to prudently grow our franchises despite the challenges of a sustained low interest rate environment and growing competition.
The impact from our portfolio repositioning activities was relatively small this quarter while the Mexico and Brazil assets are still on track.
The regulatory process related to Mexico is taking a little longer than anticipated and we now expect both to close in the second half of the year.
Also we made good progress towards the sale of the UK equipment finance platform this quarter.
Details on the timing and the expected CTA impact of these transactions are included in the earnings presentation appendix.
As I've said before these platform exits will reduce operating expenses by around $15 million a quarter and improve our return on equity.
Turning to slide four of the presentation the fourth quarter 2014 contained benefits from several discrete items that are shown on the box on the left hand side of the slide.
The decline in this quarter in pre-tax ROA also reflects several items which are listed on the right hand side of the slide.
I'll elaborate on these items as part of my review of the segment results.
I'll start with Transportation &amp; International Finance which generated $157 million of pre-tax income which is a 3.3% pre-tax ROA in line with the 3.4% ROA for the full year 2014.
TIF assets declined sequentially reflecting $400 million of asset sales including the remaining $225 million of aircraft to complete the seeding of the joint venture and fewer deliveries of new aircraft.
The sequential decline in net finance margin was driven by the lower asset utilization.
And losses related to our UK business also contributed to decline in pre-tax income.
We had a higher number of aircraft off-lease during the quarter due to a few carriers that had performance issues as John just mentioned.
As a result utilization fell from 99% to 97% still a strong level.
We are working on re-leasing these aircraft.
This process may take a little longer than usual given they were taken back on short notice and therefore maybe a headwind to net finance margin in the near-term.
The fundamentals in our aircraft leasing market remain positive supported by continued financial health of the airlines as well as consistent growth in demand for air travel.
Lease rates on new aircraft also remain attractive and renewal rates are generally stable.
And our current order book positions us well for the shift to new technologies.
Moving to Rail Rail utilization also remained strong at 98% but declined modestly from last quarter's peak of 99%.
Renewals continue to average above expiring rents although that differential is narrowing.
As I mentioned last quarter fewer than 2 000 of our railcars that service the oil sector expired this year.
In summary our Transportation &amp; International Finance segment continues to deliver returns in line with the target pre-tax ROA.
North American Commercial Finance reported pre-tax income of $36 million which represents about a 1% return on asset which is below prior periods.
We originated about $1.4 billion of loans and leases down sequentially in line with seasonal trends but at similar levels to first quarter of last year.
Assets were down slightly from year-end as growth in commercial real estate partially offset declines in other NACF divisions.
The sequential quarter decline in net finance margin primarily reflects the absence of interest recoveries given our low level of non-accruals.
The middle market has the slowest start to the year since the financial crisis with M&amp;A and LBO activity down about 50% from the fourth quarter.
Private equity deal flow has been impacted by the higher cost of second lien debt and the continuing disconnect between buyer and seller expectation on valuation.
On a positive note new business pricing remained stable and is generally in line with the current portfolio yields.
The pipeline is improving but second quarter volume will likely be below a year ago period.
Our real estate finance team continues to leverage its relationships to underwrite deals with strong attractive risk adjusted returns.
The market remains competitive and we continue to see an elevated level of pre-payments both of which will challenge the rate of growth in the portfolio.
Equipment finance had a strong new business volume for the quarter and growth in originations at Direct Capital offset lower yields in other channels.
Commercial services also had a good quarter with factoring volume up 4% from the first quarter of last year as it continues to maintain its leadership in its core industries while expanding into non-apparel sectors.
Over the course of 2015 we will continue to prudently manage through the difficult lending market while maintaining underwriting discipline.
We expect to achieve a pre-tax ROA of between 1.3% and 1.4% consistent with the near-term target for this segment.
Turning to the slide nine.
We anticipate asset growth of around 5% with growth on our commercial franchises partly offset by the platform assets.
Net finance margin will remain pressured in the second quarter given the headwinds I just discussed.
The operating expense ratio will continue to be above the high-end of the range until we complete the platform exits in the second half of the year and as we incur OneWest integration costs.
Given the current environment we are targeting a pre-tax ROA of approximately 2% excluding the impact of CTA charges.
We will revisit our profitability targets after OneWest closes.
In summary we continue to focus on our strategic priorities to improve our return on equity by maintaining disciplined growth of our commercial franchises exiting low return businesses returning excess capital to our shareholders as well as closing OneWest which will lower our overall funding cost accelerate the realization of our U.S.
DTA and enable us to achieve our target capital ratios.
With that I'll turn it back over to Kate and we'll take your questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my questions.
The first question I just had was about your buyback authorization the $200 million.
And I'm just trying to get a sense for whether you would be inclined to use that buyback on top of any potential asset purchases from GE Capital or should we assume that if you purchase assets from GE Capital that you wouldn't be pursuing the buyback.
I'm just trying to find out if the two are mutually exclusive or do you think you have the capacity to do both together? Well one I think Sameer the buyback is really consistent with what we've been doing.
We have some asset sales that we've done both in the UK portfolio and the Hibernia sales that generated cash and capital that we wanted to return to shareholders.
In regards to any potential on the GE Capital that would be bought in the bank or that would be our expectation is buy in the bank.
And as you can see with our financials we have liquidity and capital depending again on the size and magnitude.
But I don't think they're linked together.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks for clarifying that.
And then the other question I had was Scott I thought I heard you say in terms of the private equity yields that somehow volumes being negatively affected by the higher cost of second-lien debt maybe I didn't get that correct.
But if that's true it seems to me a little bit strange given all the spread compression all the competition which you've seen in the market so if you can help us reconcile that commentary around the higher cost of second-lien debt whether it's all the competitive forces we are seeing elsewhere on the market? Sameer it's a good point.
I think part of it is given the  we are five years from the last cycle and I think a lot of the losses as you remember kind of happen in that part of the capital structure and I think that given the current environment that the expectations around pricing are for a little bit longer period of time than some of this pressure you see in some of the other asset classes in the market.
So there is a little bit of stability there given the experiences of five years six years ago.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just my last question is on the yield side it was just a little bit lighter than we had anticipated you gave some color on the aircraft side it seemed like there were some three carriers and that affected your utilization rate.
And the railcar sequentially there were some trends that negatively affected yields.
But it still sounds like overall when you look at your leasing portfolio you're still pretty comfortable in terms of the yield dynamic going forward.
It doesn't sound like you were anticipating a significant amount of margin  yield compression going forward because of any sort of market forces.
So is that fair to say that it just looked like there were more idiosyncratic things going on this quarter and you're fairly comfortable in kind of the yield trends going forward? Yeah.
So I guess I'll answer.
If we take rail for specifically there is a seasonal process of true-ups in the fourth quarter.
So yes our yield and we called that out in the margin was elevated on a sequential basis.
If you look at the trend of the rail leasing over the last five quarters if you take that out it's been as we've talked about an upward trend.
And as I mentioned we see the differential between expiring rents and new rents kind of narrowing.
And so at some point in time that trend will kind of slow down and plateau off on the rail side.
Then it's really the utilization that we talked about.
On the aircraft we've talked about that we had some above market yields on some of our aircraft from many years ago and that we've had that re-pricing happening.
So absent the aircraft we took back there is still some pressure on those yields to get back to market norms but most of that has taken place as you mentioned.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Sorry.
Excuse me.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Eric.
Yeah good morning.
Good morning.
I've learned to use my mute button.
John can you just remind us what is left to accomplish in terms of platform exits or portfolio sales beyond the Brazil and Mexico equipment leasing exits and what is the timeframe for those remaining exits? Eric this is Scott.
So Brazil and Mexico we were hoping that Mexico would've been done on the second quarter and I mentioned we have a little bit of delay in the process.
So we say second half but I'd like it to be probably in the third quarter.
Brazil is subject to a much more rigorous because of the bank acquisition process similar to what we go through here in the U.S.
So as we we've said it'd probably be later in the  in 2014 (sic) [2015?] (19:51).
And then the other business that's in process is our UK leasing business equipment leasing business and as I mentioned previously in the call that we're making very good progress on that and we hope to get a signed agreement this quarter and hope to close in the second half.
Earlier is better but I'd say second half is a good expectation.
All right.
And that represents the entirety of the remaining portfolio exits? Yeah.
That's the extent of it yes.
Okay.
And then finally can you just give us some sense of sort of your confidence interval around the timing of the OneWest closing it's good to hear that you're reiterating the same timeframe but I think the recent experience has been that these deals always take longer than even your longest expectation.
So how do we frame what would be sort of a worst case regulatory scenario in terms of the closing of that transaction? Well given the only other example that's out there which is M&amp;T I guess I can't give you a worst case scenario.
But all I can tell you is we're continuing to target mid-year.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Yeah first question on the OneWest acquisition.
Can you give us any kind of update on how they're doing with their balance sheet runoff and particularly with kind of their higher yielding assets and what that may mean for your accretion expectations post close? Well Mark I would say that they published a call report and if you look at some of the trends there their new asset origination is exceeding the run-off of the legacy portfolio.
I think as mentioned in the past is the legacy portfolio has a fairly high coupon and the new business that they are putting is not at that same level.
But from a perspective of the overall business dynamics of the businesses transforming and doing a very good job and growing their commercial franchise.
And as we've talked about in the past we've factored in the difference between the legacy book run-off and new business as part of our pro forma.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And just a follow up I just wanted to ask a question about capital deployment a slightly different way.
Is there any way you can give a sense of how much dry powder you would have for GE Capital acquisitions I mean given what you have today and what you expect to deploy around the OneWest acquisition? I think I prefer not to kind of get into the specifics of the deal the one company itself.
But I think overall as we talked about our focus is on OneWest.
When we did the OneWest transaction we talked about the debt got us down to our target capital ratio based on where we were at that point in time.
And I think we have to focus on closing that deal integrating that deal well.
In regards to speculating about how big of an asset we could buy I think it's probably premature at this time.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
The next question is from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi thanks.
I'm wondering could you give us an update on what's happening with Nacco and talk about the railcars you bought this quarter? And then also talk about what's  apologize for the construction noise here.
If you could talk about the railcars you bought in the U.S.
and kind of the portfolio mix now it's shifting away from oil to oil again? I'd say on Nacco it's performing well kind of in line with what we kind of expected when we underwrote the transaction a year ago.
The order that John mentioned was really to expand our market presence.
We thought it was a very good opportunity to put some earning assets on the books with customers that wanted those assets.
So we think it's performing well.
We're kind of being prudent in regards to the growth of the platform given kind of building the right infrastructure to scale it but you'll see continued growth in our Nacco business from where we originally purchased it.
In regards to the cars we ordered in the U.S.
it's a continuation of as we have been is to continue to order product that our customers are looking for the future not just for the next couple of years.
So a lot of these purchases we make in railcars are as you know we keep the assets for 20 years 30 years.
And so that's more of an overall kind of sense of where customers are requesting product from us.
As you see in the back of the decks yes over the last couple of years the proportion of tank cars in our portfolio has increased but it's still a very diversified fleet that we have that caters to many segments and many industries outside of just the oil sector.
Inc.</span></strong> And what's happening with the upgrades the improvements to the tank cars? Well as you probably know Canada has come out with its proposed regulations the U.S.
has not done that yet we are expecting the U.S.
to come out with its regs soon.
We're anticipating that they are likely to be similar to Canada but we don't know that until they actually come out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
The next question is from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
When I look at your slide deck obviously in the end we can get a sense of the drag from the non-strategic portfolios.
If we roll forward call it 6 months or 12 months does that drag go to zero? And I guess we could also assume that we get back to more like 98% 99% utilization rate maybe you can give me a sense of what some of those numbers might look like? Yeah Henry.
So at least in the non-strategic side when we close those activities there might be a little bit of tail  the assets may go there might be a little bit of tail on the operating expense but the majority of the P&amp;L will be gone  with the CTA going through the charges as part of that.
And then on the UK business again that's part of Jeff's business.
So you all will see is we'll have some reduction in assets and for the quarter that it happens there will be a decline because those are higher yielding assets but the performance of the business is a negative.
So it actually will improve Jeff's profitability.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> And then the impact of  I know it's only a couple of 100 basis points but what would the impact of getting back to a more robust utilization rate be on the air and leasing  the air and rail business? Well as we've said I think at least in the air let's make that more discrete because those aircraft if you look at the run rates in the fourth quarter outside some of the comments I've already made about the aircraft portfolio some of the yields are still coming off at lower rates or being re-leased at lower rates than they were coming off.
Overall if utilization gets back up which is really the aircraft we took back proactively that we'll see that pick up once they get back on rentals.
So we think that that could be later in the second quarter or maybe goes to third quarter depending on what it takes to get the right new lease agreement.
So that would be the air.
I think on rail 98% 99% is kind of  I'm not so sure it's going to kind of move the needle that much.
It would be great to go back to 99% but I think we're  the markets had a very high level of utilization even past based on historical norms.
So I think that's probably  it's really probably air and then the NSP exits will be the main driver.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> And then Direct Capital by our reckoning you have the second or third largest online lender there.
Can you give us a sense of what the growth rates on that business has been since you've acquired it? We've grown it very well since we acquired it back in August.
I don't know if we'll put the numbers out right now.
But we're very happy with the franchise.
We continue to kind of leverage the platform as we talked about.
They had a lot of growth initiatives.
We continue to invest in the platform.
And as you mentioned we think there is a lot of runway because of the underserved nature of the small medium sized businesses up in the U.S.
Yeah.
Let me just add the team we have there is doing a great job and we're very very happy with how they're doing.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Eric Beardsley of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I was just wondering if you could expand a little bit more on what you're seeing in terms of competition in loan yields.
Are you seeing more pressure in the cash flow or asset base and are there any signs of stabilization? Yeah.
So I think I've mentioned the cash flow in the middle market has stabilized for the last few quarters.
So that piece is beneficial.
There is still very much a lot of competition in the ABL side especially as you get into the we call more rate retail ABL and some of that's actually drifted up into the capital equipment financing side of the house as people are trying to find ways to deploy liquidity.
But overall as I mentioned we see the stabilization in pricing which is good for where we are in the cycle.
From a perspective of competitors outside of the banks given the other non-bank enterprises this is a area where a lot of people want to get into and we have to focus on our underwriting expertise and our industry expertise and our longevity in the marketplace because that does play a role in decisions that are made by our customers not just kind of liquidity.
Got it.
In terms of your outlook for the 5% asset growth is that a net of the disposition so I think the comparable number you might have had in last quarter's presentation was 5% to 10%? Yes what I said on the fourth quarter is we said that we're targeting the core commercial franchise to be consistent with 2014 which was around 8% and if you take in the platform exits plus we knew Hibernia was going to happen that's a lot of headwind.
So yes that's how we get back to around the 5% in total but the commercial franchise we expected that has similar performance to 2014.
Got it.
So has anything changed relative to last quarter in terms of your growth outlook? The only thesis as I laid out our middle market Corporate Finance business first quarter was pretty light on volume.
We see the pipeline picking up a little bit and our best estimate right now is it's probably going to be a little bit below second quarter of last year.
So that might be an area that if that continues  it picked up several years ago.
First quarters have been light before so if that picks up that would help us to get to that target.
But I think that's the main one because we don't have a lot of aircraft deliveries this year.
So we know the deliveries on rail and air so it's really the Corporate Finance business will be the driver of the variability around asset growth.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning.
On the aircraft that you took back I'm wondering is there a geographic pattern to it and/or is there a risk in a given region or softness? And can you give us a size of the pool of aircraft that are at risk for this kind  for take back? Yes Chris it's clearly not a regional.
Though as I mentioned in my remarks that the overall trends in the marketplace are doing fine.
We have a lot of customers and I would say that these are discrete items.
There is no trend or linkage about any change in that outlook.
It's just part of our business model.
We're an asset manager and so we'll redeploy those aircraft.
Jeff and the team have done a great job over time.
This one just happens to be multiple in one quarter where usually it's one or two customers.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
But it's not like they're all in one region of the world? No no.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
As a matter of fact they are in fact spread around the world.
Yes.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
It's more that the customer itself the nature of the customer itself not that it has any inclination on the overall aircraft leasing market at all.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then when you indicated that the rail utilization was down about two percentage points this quarter you said there are 2 000 tanker cars up for re-lease this year.
That's in addition to the 2% that we lost.
So you'd be at risk there of another 2%? We went from 99% to 98%.
The 2% utilization was in the air side Chris.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
But on the railcar side the one point decline from fourth quarter actually was not related to energy or the oil sector.
It was actually a little bit of softness in steel and coal.
So the 2 000 tanker cars that I mentioned was is we don't have a lot of cars re-leasing that have exposure to the oil sector.
We haven't had any of those come up for renewal in the first quarter.
Those are in the second half of the year.
And so there could be some impact on pricing or utilization as those cars come up for renewal in the second half of the year.
So yes that's true.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then can you give us an idea on a year-over-year basis how much direct capital contributed to both revenues and expenses or was it an accretive or dilutive acquisition as we stand back and look at it here in the first quarter? It was very accretive to us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> In terms of revenues more than expense? Both  both profitability and revenue.
Right I guess what I'm getting at also is just at one point a year or two ago I remember you talking about expenses in the like $215 million a quarter give or take range and it just seems like we're trending way above that now.
Yes the $215 million when we gave it unfortunately Chris as you know we did that back I think at the end of 2012 and that was based on what we knew at that point and really was around exiting some of the international platforms.
Since that time some of the cost that we have taken out of from the exit of the sub-performing platforms we've re-invested in growth franchises.
So back from there we invested in the Maritime team that has produced over $1 billion of assets we bought Nacco and so that cost base comes on to our income statement and balance sheet and then Direct Capital clearly they have expenses in order to generate the revenue and the profitability they have.
So really it was a re-shifting from low returning businesses to redeploy some of those expenses to continue to grow our commercial franchise.
And so where we are unfortunately we still have three platforms left to kind of  once those are gone that helps us on our run rate expenses but I think those investments we've made in both Direct Capital Nacco and the Maritime business since I think I put that guidance out there I think has been very successful and very accretive for the company.
But unfortunately we still have the tail of getting out of the remaining three platforms we talked about.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
That's it for me.
The next question comes from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Can we talk a little more? I guess some of the asset growth weakness this quarter looked to me though that the prepayment activity actually slowed a little bit sequentially.
Can you just talk about the level of prepayment activity and then I have a follow up? Yes Chris so I'd say most of the prepayment pressure we'd been under for the last few quarters really was on the Corporate Finance.
And so that's why there was a lot of refinancing volume.
And so that was the one where we were getting most of the pressure.
That has kind of subsided.
As we said we had a soft first quarter.
So asset growth was muted but it didn't decline.
So the area that we had some re-pricing now is really in the Real Estate business because that was new business we originated over the last couple years and some of that activity is now refinancing given one of the prior questions around liquidity in the marketplace a lot of people are coming back into the real estate market that had exited when Matt and team built a very good portfolio.
So we still see growth in the Real Estate business.
It just won't be at the rate that we've experienced for the last couple years.
So that's really where the  what I'll call the re-pricing pressures had moved from really the Corporate Finance business into the Real Estate business based on the shift in liquidity.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes great.
I guess the only true follow-up there is on the Corporate Finance side.
Volumes down year-over-year.
Yield looks like they fell 60 basis points almost 10% sequentially.
Anything one-time going on that yield decline? And I just wanted to ask again obviously first quarter was one of the weakest you've seen for a while.
What gives you optimism that this business will grow this year? So on the yield one especially sequentially is really driven almost exclusively by the lack of interest recoveries.
So it's been something that we've talked about.
But as we've mentioned our non-accruals after last year we've cleaned up our non-accruals to a level that there is not much left in regards to deferred revenue which is really the nature of what that is.
So I think the yields on the portfolio around where  it's trended back to what the market yields are for new business.
As I mentioned Chris the first quarter we don't want to over read the softness in the first quarter.
We have seen some pickup but my optimism would be is that the macros of the growth in the economy and what the business has been able to achieve would get us to the fact that we would get asset growth in 2015.
And the only change to that would be is if the market continues to be like it was in the first quarter then no that that will put pressure on us achieving asset growth in the Corporate Finance business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
Just quickly on the oil exposure I saw the slides in the slide deck where you do a good job of delineating exactly where you're exposed.
Any update on the lending side? It didn't look there was any credit issues this quarter.
Yes.
There was just Chris the one that I called out we had one account that we've put in on non-accrual and we did put up a specific reserve on that particular credit.
But other than that it was just part of the credit team reviewing all of our exposures and if there's any adjustments it will show up  unless it's a specific action like that it will just show up in our general reserve.
And I called out in the fourth quarter that we did provide some additional general reserves on our energy exposure based on what we knew in the fourth quarter.
And so that will just be part of our normal quarterly process.
But this quarter was just one account for a specific reserve.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
I have one last question that's more of a broader strategic question maybe for John or you Scott.
I've covered CIT for a long time and I've always thought of GE Capital as your strongest and broadest competitor in most of your businesses there right there or ahead of you.
How much of a strategic positive for the CIT Commercial franchise is their exit of this business? They've seemed to have had a funding cost advantage for years over CIT.
Is this a significant strategic positive that they're exiting the business and the size of the asset portfolio wise are there other  is there talent or teams that you potentially could be interested in as well? It seems like the OneWest transaction was much more by the right side of the balance sheet but I think what we'd really like to see is something on the left side of the balance sheet continue to have some (42:15) strength higher asset growth.
How much of an opportunity is there with GE Capital repositioning? So I think the answer is we're still evaluating it.
We do believe there will be some very interesting opportunities I think both on the asset side and on the people side.
Whether or not it's an overall competitive advantage or not depends a little bit on where the businesses go.
So it's certainly possible that they would go to someone else who had equal strength in terms of funding.
So I think it's really too early to say competitively what the impact is.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks gentlemen.
The next question comes from Vincent Caintic of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks so much.
Good morning guys.
I'm going to piggy-back on that last question with one question with the near-term focus and then one with a more philosophical one.
For GE has GE announcing its exit from commercial lending has that had a more immediate impact or been beneficial to any of your business organically like for example if your sales folks have gotten more calls from current GE customers? I just want to get a perspective there? Since I guess it happened a couple weeks ago so I think  are we getting phone calls? Sure based on the size and magnitude of a transaction clearly people would like us to come visit them and talk to them about what we bring to the table.
But I don't think that's any different than any other transaction would happen but it is something clearly we're focused on.
If there is something we can do to help support the customers we will focus on that for them.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then the longer-term question and this is assuming OneWest or after OneWest is complete but how do you envision CIT looking like going forward? Do you think about it as a  it will be half transportation and then half the commercial lending business with a small personnel lending side? Would you see it as a full service regional bank with transportation being a smaller contribution? Just trying to get a sense of you have a lot of moving parts here and what you strategically envision CIT being like going forward? Thanks.
Sure.
So I think there is no question that we want to be more commercial banking like and so part of the rational for the OneWest transaction besides lowering our deposit cost and getting retail deposits and also creating U.S.
taxable income which is all good for us is to expand our commercial banking capabilities.
So for instance today when we lend into the middle market space we don't capture the commercial deposits that are available we don't have the cash management capabilities that some of our competitors can cross sell.
So I think from our perspective we definitely want to expand our commercial banking capabilities and OneWest is going to help us do that.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And so  sorry and so it would be with your existing  your franchise just being a lot bigger with more capabilities is that kind of reading it fairly? Yes and I think also as has been mentioned the funding cost allows us to play in also other asset classes and customer basis that aren't as attractive today to us because of our overall ROE targets.
So that's another area that is a benefit as John mentioned around growing that commercial franchise.
Having those capabilities helps diversify our portfolio mix and product mix.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
There are no other questions at this time.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Barbara Callahan for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Kate.
And thank you everyone for joining this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact me or any member of the Investor Relations team.
You can find our contact information along with other information on CIT in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Thanks again for your time today and have a great day.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
Hello and welcome to the CIT's Group Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
My name is Keith and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session later in the call.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Sure.
Thank you Keith.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Scott Parker our CFO.
After John and Scott's prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the call queue if you have additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2014 10-K.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Also as part of the call this morning we will be referencing a presentation that is available in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning.
Thank you all for being on the call.
We were very pleased to have received regulatory approval last week for our OneWest transaction.
We expect the deal to close on August 3 that's next Monday.
The rationale for the deal remains as compelling today as it was a year ago.
It doubles the size of our bank it advances our bank's strategy it diversifies our funding it lowers our funding costs it adds commercial banking capabilities particularly commercial deposit and payment solutions and we pick up 70 branches from which we can expand a retail banking business.
This transaction provides a platform to transition CIT to a commercial bank for the middle market.
The deal remains financially attractive.
It is significantly accretive to earnings.
It adds U.S.
taxable income to accelerate the use of our NOLs.
And the two main differences from the numbers we showed you a year ago are one we do not intend to issue debt which is an obvious positive; and second our 2016 earnings estimates are lower today than they were a year ago.
Our 2016 earnings estimates are lower primarily due to the low level of deal activity in the middle market spread compression in our North American Commercial Finance businesses and the continued low interest rate environment which brings me to the second quarter results.
We earned $153 million pre-tax $115 million after-tax in the second quarter which was up modestly from the first quarter.
Commercial assets grew 1% from the prior quarter and 4% from a year ago.
Our net finance margin remained right around 4%.
The credit metrics for our overall portfolio remain stable however our energy book where given the level of oil prices are we expect to see further pressure and we experienced a charge-off on one account in the quarter.
This is a small piece of our portfolio it's less than $500 million and we continue to review it on a name-by-name basis.
Our Transportation business is preforming well.
We grew financing and leasing assets in all of our Transportation divisions.
Our railcars remain 98% utilized and our commercial aircraft remain 97% utilized.
Our middle market lending business continues to be negatively impacted by lower M&amp;A activity in the middle market and spread compression in certain sectors.
We reduced headcounts in the quarter to reflect these lower volumes and are working on additional opportunities to improve revenues and operating efficiencies.
Our expenses remain above our target in part due to cost related to the pending acquisition but we did bring down compensation expense in the quarter.
As we begin the integration with OneWest we will look for greater synergies both on the revenue side and on the expense side.
And we will continue to move more of our businesses into our bank becoming more bank-centric and optimizing our bank holding company.
With that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I will review the financial results and operating performance of our businesses as well as provide an update on the OneWest deal economics.
As John mentioned we reported second quarter net income of a $115 million or $0.66 per share and pre-tax income of a $153 million.
We also returned over $87 million of capital through both share repurchases and dividends.
Turning to slide three of the earnings presentation the pre-tax return on assets for our commercial franchise remained at 1.9%.
And we expect the year-to-date operating trends to continue into the second half of the year.
We made progress on our portfolio repositioning activities but there was a minimal impact on this quarter's financial results.
The sale of the Mexico platform is expected to close in the third quarter while the Brazil and UK equipment finance platform exits are still on track to close by year-end.
Please refer to the Appendix where we show the CTA impacts associated with these platform exits.
Turning to slide five Transportation &amp; International Finance generated $157 million of pre-tax income or 3.3% pre-tax return on asset in line with our expectations.
The continued strong performance reflects asset growth generally stable equipment utilization and renewal rates and low credit costs.
In air we made progress leasing the aircraft that we discussed last quarter and expect to place the remainder before year-end.
The joint venture with Century Tokyo Leasing is proceeding well.
Growth is exceeding our expectation and the structure is accretive to our return on equity.
Assets in the JV grew to $700 million from $500 million in the first quarter and we are on pace to exceed $1 billion by year-end.
Rails performance continues to be strong with utilization near all-time highs at 98%.
Overall lease renewal rates remain attractive and lease terms are stable.
We are starting to see some pressure in select car types such as coal and steel but the returns on new car deliveries in the bank remain strong.
The Department of Transportation finalized rules for tank car safety in May.
We have approximately 20 000 tank cars impacted by the new regulation.
Based on our interpretation of the rules we are required to retrofit less than 1 000 cars before 2018 and the vast majority of the remainder in 2023 or later.
Although based on customer demand we may opt to retrofit some sooner.
The North American Commercial Finance segment reported pre-tax income of $47 million representing a pre-tax return on asset of 1.3% an improvement from the first quarter but still below our target.
We saw a slight uptick in new business volumes during the second quarter though middle market lending and leasing activity remained slow particularly in the energy sector where we have been cautious.
We saw a sequential quarter improvement in volume in corporate and real estate lending as well as in the equipment finance business.
In commercial services however while commission rates are generally stable volume and assets declined during the quarter driven by lower activity in a few accounts.
John mentioned that credit metrics remained stable though we did a charge-off related to one energy account.
We continue to actively monitor the energy portfolio and to adjust our gradings based on current information and depending on the near-term trends in oil prices we could see additional pressure in this portfolio.
The persistence of an environment marked by slow activity combined with increased competition has resulted in financial performance that is below our internal targets.
Nelson and his team are focused on opportunities to enhance both revenue and operating synergies as we integrate and prepare to offer OneWest commercial banking products and services to our customer base.
Now turning to OneWest we are engaged in a substantial effort to integrate the front-end and infrastructure of OneWest into CIT.
After the close of the transaction next week we will have the data required to complete the purchase accounting valuation for the third quarter reporting.
We will also file a historical pro forma financial statements in mid-October.
Given the size and complexity of the OneWest balance sheet and the fact it is a private company this is a time consuming process.
In addition we will be filing a three-year plan with the OCC in early December after which we will be in a position to communicate new performance targets.
John mentioned that the benefits to the OneWest acquisition in advancing our bank strategy remain intact.
We will expand our commercial banking and deposit capabilities.
We will further diversify our sources and lower our funding cost.
We will accelerate the utilization of our net operating loss and we will bring our capital levels closer to our targets.
John also mentioned that the deal is accretive to CIT's earnings.
On slide seven of the earnings presentation we have provided the original assumptions for the 2016 pro forma that we did at the deal announcement and our updated expectations.
Compared to a year ago CIT's performance has been impacted by lower asset growth and profitability in our North American Commercial Finance segment as well as the persistence of low interest rates which delayed the benefit from our asset sensitivity given our sizable cash balances.
On the other hand we repurchased more shares than expected and we will use cash generated from our platform exits and other bank holding company initiatives to fund the acquisition.
For OneWest Bank recall we used our 2013 actual results in the deal pro forma we provided.
Their current year performance is trending slightly above the 2014 full year results in their regulatory filings which showed net income of approximately $200 million.
As John mentioned we are also developing plans to achieve more revenue and expense synergies given the current market environment.
And the last item other adjustments won't be determined until we complete the purchase accounting in the third quarter.
In addition to integrating OneWest we are taking additional actions to optimize the bank holding company to improve our return on tangible common equity.
These include transferring additional U.S.
based business platforms into the bank improving the efficiencies of our secured debt facilities and generating incremental cash at the bank holding company to pay down high cost debt.
We are excited about the opportunities created by the combination of OneWest and CIT as we build out our capabilities to better serve our middle market customers.
With that I'll turn it back to Keith and we'll take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And the first question comes from Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks.
Appreciate all the incremental color around the OneWest deal.
I was just hoping with all the puts and takes you walked through could you give us a sense of kind of where your expectations are for a 2016 pro forma EPS? Mark I think one of the last items I just mentioned is until we complete the purchase accounting and valuation I think that we would be premature to kind of provide that 2016 guidance.
As you know not only are we fair-valuing their balance sheet we are changing some of the go-forward accounting that was used or OneWest was under prior to the acquisition.
So the combination of those two I think we need to get through that process and provide you guidance later in the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But if you just look at above the line all the other adjustments would that be kind of a net negative or positive to your previous expectation? Well I'd say there are three items that we talked about we are not issuing debt so you can kind of see the benefit of that.
I think we talked a little bit about where CIT's kind of earnings are currently and the real challenge between OneWest and CIT as we have substantial cash that we have not gotten any benefit from rising rates which was part of the forward curve back then.
So I think that item as we are using we are using cash at CIT to buy the acquisition so that is a benefit but OneWest also has a sizable cash balance in their bank so we will need to work on optimizing that kind of post-closing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Sameer Gokhale with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just a couple of questions.
The first one was in terms of the timeline for the close you talked about I think in August 3 date but then Scott you referenced in a portion of the OCC document as well there was a  the requirements were laid out as far as the financial plan.
And I think you talked about between October and December you'll be submitting some financial plans to the regulators.
And one of the things I just want to clarify is how is it that the deal date is expected for August 3 before you submit these other plans.
So are these other financial plans that are submitted not in any way shape or form going to affect the closing of the deal? Is that the way to look at it? And you just have to work with the regulators and make sure you submit something that meets with their approval.
If they don't approve it then you go back and submit another plan.
I'm just trying to get a sense like how that guides with the closing date of August 3? Thank you.
Yeah.
So Sameer I think that there's two different pieces.
One is publishing the historical performance is actually for the SEC so that you have historical financials for the new enterprise.
So that's just a normal process as part of the acquisition.
The second piece is we did as far as the regulatory filing process have business plans submitted.
And as you can imagine given the timeline part of the requirement was to have a refreshed updated business plan submitted to the OCC as you saw before the end of the year.
So I think that's part of a normal process to do that.
And as John mentioned the closing is next Monday.
Yeah.
Sameer the deal will close next Monday.
The business plan submission is a post-closing requirement.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just to go back to the railcars you did talk about the final rules that have come out and you cited the cars that need to be retrofitted.
Do you have at this point an estimate? I know in the past you talked a lot about the fact the fact that your customers would shoulder some of these costs of retrofitting.
But do you have a sense for the financial impact of retrofitting now that the final rules are out? I think we haven't had any cars go into the shop Sameer.
So I think that'll answer two parts of the question.
One is it's customary for regulatory or changes in regulatory kind of conditions that the part of the contract that could be passed on to customers.
As we've mentioned before that is kind of a supply demand kind of determinant.
In regards to what we wanted to size up is the size in the near-term of the cars that we need to retrofit is significantly lower than the 20 000.
And so I think as we go get through some of the cars and the retrofitting we'll provide you additional color on the cost of doing that.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the question comes from Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up on the purchase accounting were there assumptions embedded at the deal announcement last year and I guess what are the considerations to take into account? Will you actually be marking up OneWest balance sheet at this point potentially and having some type of gain on closing? Well I think in the process I would say that two probably largest items that were part of the initial pro forma were credit marks as well as the intangible for the OneWest deposits and franchises.
And so I think given that process the one  those two items would be the key part of the valuation in the purchase accounting.
Got it.
So given that we are one week away from closing and I guess you've had quite a bit of time now to work on this.
Is there any way that you give any thoughts on whether those marks are still appropriate or if it's possible to actually mark the balance sheet up here now given the rate environment or the credit improvement and also just if you could help us think about what happens to indemnification asset as well? Well I think Eric there is kind of three different pieces of the puzzle.
On the balance sheet you have the commercial portfolio which is one process; you have the legacy cover portfolio that is much more complicated from a fair value point of view as we move that into our accounting methodology we will use going forward; and the third piece is really on the deposits and intangibles as we walk through that process what we did at the deal pro forma was typical kind of bank transactions what those would be So ours could be all those items when we put them altogether I'd rather have the specifics versus trying to forecast what that is without the accounting support for that.
Got it.
Will you actually put out numbers at deal closing next week? There won't be a deal closing.
Remember when we're closing I know we've been doing this we have to roll forward we've been doing a lot of work and that was as of a month or two ago.
So we have to roll forward that process and conclude several remaining items that were in process regardless of the date of the close.
So I think kind of thinking about as I tried to mention all the things that we have to submit as part of the closing I think looking later around the third quarter would be more  third quarter fourth quarter is more realistic.
Okay.
So nothing really you could say in terms of what happened for the OneWest accretion if that goes away or not under you accounting? Correct.
It's very hard to give you too much guidance on that until we actually book all the loans accordingly and we have a quarter or two  or a month or two under our belts in regards to that projection.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Great.
Scott I have actually been kind of thinking about this really since last July.
Those potential changes why weren't some element of them kind of contemplated in the pro formas? And I've got of a follow-up.
Well I think there is two pieces of them Moshe.
One is I think it's customary to use the kind of the forward curve in regards to using future periods and number two is as we talked about versus a year ago if you look at the middle market corporate finance business the slowdown was not something that...
Scott I'm talking specifically though to the expected earnings out of OneWest I guess.
To the extent that you expected to change their accounting I mean the numbers I would have thought contemplated what you thought it would earn not what it historically earned I guess? I think the OneWest the way we've dealt with that Moshe was putting that in the other adjustments because as a private company we kind of use what the public available information that we had for that.
And then the marks that we would have taken on the portfolio would have been in the other adjustments purchase accounting.
So you did include those marks on a fair value of the portfolio in those? We had an estimate at that time.
But they didn't include an interest rate mark they only included credit right? Correct.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim.
Thanks very much.
Just to follow up another time on some of the directional changes to the guidance can you give us some sense of what incremental synergies might exist because as I recall from the discussion a year ago there were no revenue synergy assumptions but there were cost synergy assumptions? So what  where would the incremental benefits derive from? There were three things Eric.
You're correct.
So the two that we put out there were funding synergies and an expense synergy.
And we said that the reason we didn't include revenue was is that those take a little bit longer time and that they would  there's clearly revenue synergies but they will manifest themselves over time when we gave the 2015 guidance.
So based on that I think the funding synergies us using cash was a big opportunity.
The other piece was remixing the deposit base in respect to our deposits their deposits as well as the cash on hand.
The second piece on operating expenses I think it's one where we factored in and we have a lot of work to do.
My sense would be is there's additional operating expenses that we will be able to achieve in 2016.
When we do that is going to be commensurate with completing all the integration efforts what we need to complete especially in the next six months to 12 months.
And then on the revenue synergies I think we will provide some more clarity on that.
There are definitely opportunities it's a matter of how quickly they'll bleed into the income statement.
Okay.
And then if I just look at the slide and the numbered lines that you've laid out the decline in the CIT standalone and the OneWest income contribution more or less offset the benefit from no cost of debt funding.
So it seems that the expectations relative to the original  or I should say the changes relative to the original really derived from the cost synergies and the other adjustments.
And you just gave a detailed assessment a question or two ago about the other adjustments.
But it would seem like if the rate environment is lower and the credit environment is also more benign the net-net of that would that have a significant impact on the original other adjustments estimate? Well the other adjustments is going to be based on today.
We're going to be fair valuing the balance sheet as of  a week from now.
So I think the piece that is the main driver is really the expectation for the forward curve.
So I think depending on when the forward curve materializes that is something as we've talked before we have  between OneWest and CIT we have a substantial amount of cash.
And we haven't invested that aggressively we've been very short-term with the expectation that rates are going to increase in the near future.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee CRT.
Good morning everyone and thanks for all this information.
It seems to be  I'm looking at slide seven which is very helpful and there seems to be a lot of debate all centering around item number six which is $15 million.
So the likely adjustments from you changing to a CIT-based accounting system are relatively small vis--vis that number it might be $0 it might be $15 million or is there a potential for there to be a large swing? I think until we complete that Henry it is a small number on the page.
But we  depending on what happens to the purchase accounting and as we go through some of the other assumptions on intangibles that number could vary from where it is on the page.
And the change would be things like amortization expense on the intangibles or...
Correct.
That would be  I mean in the short-term if the intangible was higher than what we originally forecasted it would be higher but it also is something that would have a corresponding impact on goodwill.
So it's just a matter of timing and geography.
I mean it just doesn't sound like a big number but I could be wrong.
I think that's what everyone is trying to figure out is it a small number or big number.
The other thing just getting away from this subject in the U.S.
one of my favorite business is Direct Capital your online lender how is that faring in this climate? Still doing very well Henry so continue to grow the franchise volume and new business is very good.
The returns are above our expectations when we did the transaction and they continue to find new markets and new customer growth so we're very happy with the performance of Direct Capital.
Given how that  how comparables in that market are valued is there a point over the next couple of years where you might breakout its P&amp;L for people? It might be possible on that one.
I think we look at it from kind of the market segments that we cover but I won't say never but I don't think it's our expectation that we would break it out.
All right.
Great.
Thank you and congratulations on a solid quarter and thanks for putting all those in front of us.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just maybe one more follow-up on OneWest I'm just wondering if there any update to how you are thinking about the valuation allowance reversal and then I have one more follow-up.
Yeah Cheryl on that one I think as we've said that based on the information we have today we will revisit the valuation allowance analysis and if the earnings projections are as we expect that would probably be a third quarter event.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just more broadly now that we're getting to the close of the OneWest deal just wondering how are you thinking about maybe portfolio acquisitions from here obviously there is a large amount in the market today and wondering if you had any updated thoughts on that? Sure Cheryl.
So we are obviously aware of a number of portfolios that are in the marketplace.
The closing of the transactions I think allows us to be more proactive there but I would that the price that the one big portfolio traded at would not have been attractive to us and so we'll have to see where things trade but the portfolio that got sold to the Canadians traded at a very high price.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
I was hoping to focus a bit on OneWest standalone performance for a moment.
So there had been some concern among some investors that the $243 million of earnings at OneWest generated in 2013 would not be sustainable given declining purchase accounting accretion benefits.
And their 2014 call report showed that earnings did indeed fall to $194 million.
And in speaking with some investors I think there was further concern that OneWest earnings would further decline from there.
But it sounds like you guys were saying on slide seven that OneWest earnings are trending slightly better relative to 2014 so is it reasonable to conclude from that kind of acquisition accounting noise from the upcoming CIT acquisition aside if we were to look at OneWest standalone going forward would its revenue that's it's generating on new loan originations now more than offset the declining purchase accounting accretion that it's been facing? Yeah so Bill I'll answer the question in two ways.
One is on their standalone reported numbers and you look at 2014 or you look at 2013 they do have in their other income the mark-to-market because of the hedging that they have in place for their portfolio.
We expect to break those hedges as part of the purchase accounting as we move those from fair value onto our cost method basis.
And number two  so that's one driver that kind of is variable in their numbers that will go away.
And then number two as you said the portfolio is performing kind of as we expected and the only delta is they have a lot of cash.
Also that is invested at the Fed and that is one of the drivers of how they're a little bit below kind of the number that was out there for 2013.
So they have been able to offset the portfolio runoff with new business volume expense actions and fee income.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
My follow-up question is the color that you guys gave kind of directionally on the impact to pro forma earnings on slide seven is there anything that you could call out that would impact tangible book that we know today but didn't know at the time of the announcement? I know there is a lot of moving parts that will affect  that will have an impact from purchase accounting but I guess just based on what we know today is there anything that's worth calling out? Based on what we put out before it really ends up becoming the final purchase  the final determination of goodwill/intangibles.
The other item we had shown was really on the kind of any restructuring charges that we might take.
So those are really the only kind of two big items from the tangible book last year.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you for your help.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Don Fandetti with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Scott on the standalone CIT I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the near-term net finance margin expectation pluses and minuses and also other income.
And then lastly on cash tax rate are we still thinking single digits on a going forward basis? Okay.
I'll answer the last one.
I think yeah this quarter on cash taxes I would say that we thought we would be kind of somewhere around 10% maybe a little bit less than 10% on the cash taxes.
I think each quarter will be a little bit up and down but that's still a good expectation.
If you look at the net finance margin based on what we know today I think our continued improvement in growth of assets into the bank with those lower funding costs is offsetting some of the portfolio pressure that we have yield pressure.
So I think we're kind of in this  where we are today is probably good for the near term on the net finance margin.
And I forgot the first part.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Oh just the other income.
Oh other income.
So if you pull out we discussed there was a $9 million charge in the other income that was  added a corresponding offset in the tax rate.
So if you take that out we're in line with kind of the non-spread.
And the real change is that the first half was a little bit elevated as we sold aircraft into the joint venture with Century Tokyo Leasing.
And we don't expect to continue to sell at that same level on the second half.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah two things.
One is just I wanted to make sure I understood the guidance on the no debt.
I mean earlier in the year you had a $1.2 billion maturity that you didn't refinance you just paid it down in cash.
And you are saying now this whole acquisition you are not going to issue any more debt and your next debt maturities are I think in 2017? Correct.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then secondly can you discuss the plan that you need to file with the OCC in December? I haven't heard that  no one else has talked about these kind of things on the call.
Is this like a CCAR-like process that you need to do? And does it relate to capital returns? And I guess there is about $100 left on your share buyback authorization is that a necessary step before you can expand any other future buybacks.
I think Chris it's really an updated three-year business plan is part of that and it's just refreshing what we had provided as part of the regulatory filing a year ago.
It's not related to CCAR at all.
It's simply a refiling of the business plan that we've otherwise filed anyway so we file three-year business plans.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
That's it from me.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Scott I want to ask you a quick question on the expenses.
If I look at slide 15 pretty good core operating expense number the $214 million versus the $223 million so much lower than last couple of quarters.
Just thinking I guess what should we be thinking about as we kind of move forward with obviously regulatory costs and other things that you've talked about building towards? So is $214 million like the number we should be thinking about as a core to build off of going into the second half of the year? For I guess  at least for this purpose Brian is that after this quarter we'll have the combined enterprise.
So I guess if you were looking at just CIT standalone that's kind of in the ballpark for the core but I think as we go into the third quarter you're going to have the combined company so I'm not so sure that number will be seen again.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Right right I was just thinking about core CIT definitely.
Yeah.
So I think what we're doing is we're continuing to manage our expenses and we have incurred integration cost up to this point.
So those won't go away in regards to the first six months to 12 months but it's clearly how do we continue to drive down our  improve our operating efficiencies by driving down our cost.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay.
And then just a second question just thinking about there's been softness in the Chinese economy.
And just thinking about how should we think about that impacting the aircraft leasing business going forward? I mean I think we have a diversified portfolio in the aircraft business.
We have some exposure to China but I think it's something where given the nature of the aircraft industry and the growth in overall airline passenger miles I think the business is still well positioned for growth and with some weakness or softness in certain economies the question really is is that a long-term trend or is that just a kind of short-term blip.
We haven't really seen it in our aircraft business at least as of now.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Ken Bruce with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Looking at just CIT standalone I guess you talked a lot about the net finance margin and the like I guess is there any way to think about how asset growth or what your outlook is for asset growth here over the next year or so? Obviously there is a lot of moving pieces with respect to the various businesses.
But how should we broadly be thinking about growth? Is it going to remain subdued or do you think that there is an opportunity for that to increase from here? What I would say is in the commercial finance sector  corporate finance sector we're  we've seen a little bit of uptick from kind of the first quarter but it's still down from year ago periods.
So I think if it continues at the pace we are we're not seeing a lot of growth in that Corporate Finance business which we would have expected earlier in the year.
We've made a part of that because of the growth of as Henry mentioned the Direct Capital business.
And we have seen a little bit of an increase in the real estate business.
So I think on average the growth rates are a little bit below what we set targets for for the business.
On the Transportation side things are continuing to proceed even with the asset sales we had to the JV the asset growth in our Transportation business continued to be kind of in line what we thought they would be.
And I guess maybe just as a follow-on within the Corporate Finance business is this purely competition? Or are you seeing that just overall activity levels are down? Is there a way to frame it in between the competitive aspect of it versus say just the general level of activity? I think the majority of it's the general activity in the marketplace.
So the overall activity is down year-over-year and that is impacting kind of our growth rate.
Okay.
Thank you for the information.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
Start with Direct Capital you mentioned the continued solid trends there.
I was wondering from a competitive standpoint are you seeing any impact from all the alt lenders or marketplace lenders that have entered the SMB lending space in your Direct Capital subsidiary? And who are your primary competitors there? Is it traditional sources of SMB lending like banks and tertiary financial institutions? Or are you actually seeing competition from other alt lenders? Thanks.
Yeah Chris what I'd say is that the market is very sizeable.
So look there's  all the players you talked about play in this market.
I think the Direct Capital team has been growing in areas that they felt that they had a competitive advantage and provided the value prop for the customer base.
And so I think we see some of the different players but I would say it's mainly the kind of the traditional lenders is kind of the opportunity to take something that was a high cost to originate into a lower cost kind of online vehicle is a way to improve the returns on that business.
And I think the growth rate can continue just given the size of the overall SMB market in the U.S.
that we feel is still underserved even with all the other players that have entered the marketplace.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
That's our sense as well.
Thanks.
The second I guess more important question would be on GE and the assets that are available.
You mentioned the high prices.
I just want to get a sense for how high a priority that is for CIT as you look to try to improve profitability and maybe reach a little more scale? If you  are you really working hard on this? Or is this something that you feel like is not a high priority? And from a regulatory perspective how much  or capital perspective how much dry powder do you have to pursue one of these transactions? And a related comment it seems like ever since I've followed CIT for years and years GE has been your biggest competitor.
Is that  is there any benefit to this competitive environment from them on winding that business? Or is that not really noticeable today? So in terms of the various different portfolios we are actively looking at and pursuing a number of their portfolios.
It depends a little bit in terms of what size they can  they package them up in.
So because there is a limit to what size we can play in.
But the leasing portfolio they traded we were actively involved in that process.
But at the price they traded at we were not going to be competitive.
So I think a lot of their assets would fit very nicely.
We could absorb them on to our platform.
They would  if they would trade at reasonable prices there would be a very interesting addition to our existing businesses.
But we'll have to see whether or not that actually occurs or not.
In terms of the competitive environment I think there's opportunities for us to develop relationships where people are concerned about where the assets are going to end up or where the relationships are going to end up but the environment still remains pretty competitive and I don't think we really see any reduction in the competitive environment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
That makes sense here as well.
Last question more for you John.
There's a lot of focus on OneWest.
I certainly disappointed that we're not sort of seeing more color on the earnings impact after a year but understand all the moving parts and the accounting noise.
But just step above the accounting noise I think you started off the call today by talking about the benefits of this transaction.
I mean I think we've always thought that the balance sheet the right side of the balance sheet the deposit base is probably the more important benefit but ultimately you're trying to improve profitability.
Does OneWest still improve the overall profitability and return targets for CIT? Or is that not clear at this point? Oh there is no question it is substantially accretive.
And so we showed you the accretion numbers last year.
It continues to be substantially accretive to earnings.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
And the next question comes from Vincent Caintic with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Thank you.
Just related questions on GE and portfolio purchases first post OneWest how much excess capital do you have and how much firepower in terms of asset purchases do you think you can do? And then the second related one you touched on the valuation for the GE sponsored business being high.
And just kind of thinking about your stock price right now so CIT trading below tangible book and a focus on becoming more of a middle market commercial bank is there any opportunity on your end in terms of realizing value in your businesses? Thanks.
Yeah.
I won't give you an exact number but we still have  and post the closing we will have excess capital as well as cash in our bank subsidiary to do a meaningful kind of size of assets as John mentioned not the size of some of the things that are out there today but we would be able to bolt on assets into our franchise.
So we just need to keep figuring out how to make sure they are accretive and improve our overall returns.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then just secondly on the I guess the valuations you're seeing out there in transactions? Well I mean just kind of  if you just talking about the one specific example I mean I think that was a transaction with a buyer that there was a  based on what we understand a pretty hefty premium for that.
So I think that  whether that's kind of market or that was certain circumstances is something that I think everybody can have their own opinions.
But I think in today's environment the assets and the yields on those assets given the current low interest rates and liquidity people definitely see value that maybe in excess of the overall through the cycle kind of valuation.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And as there are no more questions at the present time I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing comments.
Great.
Thank you.
And thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact me or any member of the Investor Relations team.
You can find our contact information along with other information on CIT in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Thanks again for your time and have a great day.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Denise and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session later in the call.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Carol Hayles our CFO.
After John and Carol's prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
And also joining us for that session is our Chief Credit Officer Rob Rowe.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the call queue if you have additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors related to the business please refer to our 2014 10-K.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Also as part of the call this morning we will be referencing a presentation that is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for being on the call this morning.
First this morning I'd like to welcome Ellen Alemany this is her third day on the job as an employee at CIT.
And I look forward to working with her as she transitions to becoming the CEO after the first quarter of 2016.
Second I'd like to thank Scott Parker for over five years as the CFO of CIT.
He has been my partner on this call over this period of time.
It's been a tremendous road that we've driven on and we've made great great progress in transitioning CIT.
Scott and I both joined shortly after CIT emerged from bankruptcy and the progress and the ups and downs have been great.
And I just want to thanks Scott for all of his efforts and I want to wish him well in his new role.
And then third I want to congratulate Carol.
I hired Carol as a Controller and she is now the CFO this is her first earnings call and I look forward to working with her at least over the next couple of quarters and I wish her the best and I'm sure she'll do a great job.
So in the third quarter first we closed our OneWest transaction and here I also want to say that we closed as you all know August 3 getting the pro formas done as we talked about on the last quarter's call marking the balance sheet to market getting all of our regulatory filings and then of course getting these third quarter results all in a very compressed timeframe is a great accomplishment of Carol and the finance team.
And I hope you all appreciate all of the financial information we've been providing.
The transaction is significantly accretive as we said it would be.
It has improved our funding costs by 70 basis points.
We now have nearly 65% of our assets in CIT Bank and the integration which we started way before the deal closed has been making great progress.
The integration teams are working very hard and we will continue integrating OneWest over the course of the next really 6 months to 12 months.
In terms of the strategic announcements that we made in October both the disposition of our Canadian business ex our rail business and our China business is really a continuation of our strategy of moving towards a U.S.
commercial banking model.
Both Canada and China were difficult for us to fund and did not generate sufficient returns on the capital we had invested there.
Now the announcement on commercial air is a much different story.
Our commercial air franchise is strong.
It's profitable and it generates attractive returns but as you all I'm sure recognize the value of the commercial air franchise is not properly recognized in today's share price.
We also take regulatory capital charges not only on the planes that we own but also on our forward order book and those regulatory capital charges were constraining our ability to grow our commercial air business.
So we are exploring as we announced all of the options available to us to separate our commercial air business from our bank.
The remaining CIT after we do that will be a simpler story.
It will be more U.S.
bank-centric and that is the business strategy that we've been embarked on over the last multiple years.
We do expect that the proceeds from these strategic transactions will be used to repay debt and/or return to our shareholders.
Now moving to the third quarter for a moment; when you strip out all of the noise we earned $153 million after tax or $0.80 a share and that $153 million and $0.80 a share does include the $17 million after tax mark on the TRS which we disclosed in our press release.
Lending and leasing assets in our Transportation and our North American Banking businesses grew in excess of $1 billion that's excluding the acquired assets and in North American Banking we originated new volume in excess of $2 billion and our factored volume rose nearly $1 billion from the prior quarter.
However the profitability in North American Banking remained below expectations.
In our Transportation businesses our commercial aircraft utilization rose slightly to 98% but our railcar utilization declined to 97% which reflects weakness in energy including coal and steel.
And we see continued weakness in parts of the U.S.
industrial economy particularly in energy in commodities and in steel.
With the exception of our lending to oil and gas extraction and services the credit quality of our portfolio was stable.
As we've talked about on prior calls we do continuously review our exposure to oil and gas on a name-by-name basis and OneWest's oil and gas portfolio was marked-to-market on the acquisition date.
And as we highlighted in our press release if oil prices remain at current levels we could see further negative credit migration in our energy portfolio.
We continue to be well capitalized and we returned $170 million of capital to our shareholders in the quarter.
We completed the sale of our Mexican platform and we recently received regulatory approval to complete the sale of our Brazilian platform.
So we're continuing to make progress in our strategic direction towards a U.S.
commercial banking model.
We will continue to shrink our holding company moving more of our assets and businesses into our bank lower our funding costs and bring our expenses down to generate attractive returns to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Carol.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to have the opportunity to work with John and Ellen in my new role and look forward to meeting all of you.
I have been very fortunate to work with Scott over the last five years and wish him all the best.
I'll start with the brief overview of the impact of the acquisition and then discuss several other items affecting the quarter as well as the business results.
The acquisition of OneWest increased assets by almost $22 billion which included nearly $6 billion of cash and securities $8 billion of commercial and consumer loans and a $6 billion run-off mortgage portfolio that is substantially covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC.
In addition we recorded a $185 million of intangible assets and just under $600 million of goodwill.
We also acquired $14 billion of deposits and $3 billion of FHLB debt which helped lower our borrowing costs by 70 basis points this quarter to 2.5%.
Our asset marks were marginally lower than the OneWest carrying value and we expect the overall impact of purchase accounting on pre-tax income to be slightly positive in the near term.
Details on the acquired balance sheet and the key purchasing accounting items that will have a continuing impact on our results are included in the appendix of the presentation.
Moving on to third quarter results; we reported income continuing operations of $697 million or $3.63 per share and pre-tax income of $137 million.
The results reflect several discrete items absent which the earnings would have been about $200 million as you can see on slide three.
The results include two months of activity from OneWest which added approximately $50 million to the pre-tax income.
Going into the fourth quarter we expect the underlying operating trends to continue at these levels.
As I mentioned earlier there were several other items shown on slide five that impacted our results related to strategic initiatives including exited countries.
Specifically as it relates to the acquisition we incurred transaction fees and restructuring costs and reversed the valuation allowance on the U.S.
federal deferred tax asset.
We also have a number of charges related to our portfolio exit.
Over the next few quarters we expect elevated charges to continue as we complete the integration and in conjunction with our strategic initiatives evaluate options for our bank holding company debt structure.
Net finance margin increased sequentially by 30 basis points to 3.7% driven primarily by lower-funding costs.
We remain asset sensitive given our level of cash and short-term security.
You will note that we have updated our definition of average earning assets which is more fully described in the presentation.
The credit provision increased to $50 million due mainly to new volume replenishment for the accretion on the acquired loan as well as elevated reserves on certain purchased loans in the initial period post acquisition.
Other income decreased to $39 million.
Growth in fee income factoring commissions and gains on sale of leasing equipment was more than offset by the TRS mark and charges related to Mexico and assets transferred to held-for-sale.
Absent costs related to the acquisition operating expenses were similar to prior periods.
With respect to income taxes excluding discrete items the 2015 full-year effective tax rate is running at 27% as international earnings continue to be a significant portion of our pre-tax income.
In 2016 as a larger share of our earnings will come from the U.S.
we expect the effective tax rate to be in the low-to-mid 30% range while the cash tax rate is expected to remain in the mid-to-high single digits.
Turning to our business segment; Transportation and International Finance generated $185 million of pre-tax income and continued to have a strong pre-tax return on assets with good performance across the franchise.
The results were driven by growth in financing and leasing assets lower funding costs reduced operating expenses and elevated gains on asset sales.
Air utilization remained stable as we continue to transition off-lease aircraft and the order book is fully placed through the next 12 months.
Utilization in rail declined to 97% still above the long-term historical average which was in the mid-90%s range and as John said the industrial economy in the U.S.
is slowing and we expect that trend to be reflected in our rail utilization rates in the quarters ahead.
Maritime assets grew to $1.5 billion with continued attractive yields and low loan to value.
The team has done a great job building the business and we continue to see good opportunities for growth over the next year.
Moving on to North America Banking this segment consists of the  of CIT's legacy NACF segment as well as OneWest's commercial lending and consumer banking businesses which expand our lending footprint and enable us to leverage their commercial deposit and payment solution capability.
Consumer banking consists of mortgage lending and the Internet bank and the retail branch network.
The NAB segment reported pre-tax income of $36 million which includes the $15 million goodwill impairment related to the assets transferred to held for sale and the elevated credit provision on acquired loans I mentioned earlier.
The results are also negatively impacted by the retail bank where similar to the other banks the contribution of our deposit franchise is currently constrained by the low rate environment but we would expect its profitability to improve when rates rise.
While the segment saw good volume growth the underlying earnings were in line with the prior quarter as a challenging lending environment the impact of low interest rates and cost of strategic initiatives continued.
Net finance margin rose as it benefited from accretion on purchase loans and the lower cost of funds which more than offset lower yields in the underlying portfolio part of which was driven by mix.
Specifically consumer banking has lower yields given it consists mainly of prime jumbo mortgages but that portfolio also has lower loss rates.
Including the non-accretable discount on acquired loans our reserve coverage for commercial loans is similar to the coverage in prior periods.
And with the acquisition loans to companies directly exposed to oil such as exploration and production now total slightly more than $1 billion as detailed on slide 19.
While we were adequately reserved today if low oil prices persist we would expect further downward credit migration which could result in higher credit costs.
A legacy consumer mortgages is a run-off portfolio that consist of $4.7 billion of single family residential mortgages and $900 million of reverse mortgages most of which are covered by loss sharing agreements.
The pre-tax income totaled $30 million equivalent to a 3% return on assets.
The income from this portfolio will accelerate usage of the U.S.
federal NOL.
The team has made good progress on our portfolio exits with the sale of the Mexico portfolio in August regulatory approval to close the Brazil sale and a definitive agreement for the UK platform sale.
As a result of the Mexico sale we recorded a charge in other income for the CTA that was previously recognized through OCI.
Updated estimates on the CTA impact of pending exits is provided on slide 18.
Given our recent announcements we moved a $500 million equipment finance portfolio in China and $800 million of loans in equipment finance assets in Canada into held for sale.
Turning to capital as John mentioned we completed the most recent share repurchase authorization and returned nearly $170 million of capital through both share repurchases and dividends.
We continue to maintain a strong capital position with the CET1 ratio of 12.4%.
While the reversal of the VA benefited shareholders' equity it had minimal impact on regulatory capital as the majority of the DTA balance is disallowed.
Instead that benefit will flow into regulatory capital over time as we use the NOL.
In summary the underlying performance of the business remained steady although the OneWest transaction has added some complexity to our results.
Ellen and I expect to get back to you in the first quarter with our plans to improve long-term returns taking into consideration the OCC plan and the impact of the recently announced strategic initiatives.
With that I'll turn the call back over the Denise and we'll take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
Our first question will come from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you and good morning.
Firstly I'd just like to congratulate you John on the work that both you and Scott did after joining CIT.
I know there was a lot of behind the scenes restructuring work of the balance sheet and businesses.
So you pulled it off over a number of years.
So I just wanted to congratulate you on that.
And then I also wanted to congratulate Ellen on her appointment to CEO and Carol in  to your role as CFO.
So look forward to working with you going forward.
I had a few questions.
I mean I think the first one really is the most obvious one which is a lot of investors are wondering how these management changes came about first with the departure of Scott and then the subsequent announcement John that you'd be stepping down and taking the role of Chairman.
And it'd be helpful I think for investors just given the magnitude of the changes and the speed of the changes to get some additional perspective on how you and the board were thinking about these management changes.
And then I have a follow up.
Thank you.
Sure Sameer.
So first of all thank you for the nice comments both about Scott and I and about Ellen.
Scott and I  and my kind of announcements were really not coordinated at all.
I've been talking to the board for six months or so about my desire to retire.
I think that what I was hired to do at the time has been accomplished.
I'm 60 years old and I really was looking for personal reasons to retire and so that process had been going on for a while.
Scott's decision to take a different opportunity really was completely independent of that.
The timing was a little bit awkward but that really was just because of his desire to take a new role a new challenge and then we had to disclose that so it really was  those were independent decisions.
Okay.
And then of course Carol we promoted which was a great thing to have the ability to promote Carol into this role.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I want to just talk about what changed in terms of the thinking around the aircraft leasing sale.
I mean I've been thinking that this could be an option for you guys I know we've talked about it in the past as something you may want to explore strategic options with the aircraft business.
But it seemed like a sticking point although it used to be the structure of the debt and covenants in place in terms of prepayment penalties.
So what really changed in terms of the thinking about doing  finally pursuing strategic options and the timing if you can just talk about those things that'd be helpful? Sure.
There's really two important pieces.
One is we needed to get the OneWest transaction closed first.
And so it was important that the remaining banking businesses and the commercial banking strategy had sufficient size and earnings and strength that we could in fact separate the air business.
And then the second thing is as we continued to grow our order book  and so if you go back five years the size of our order book in relation to the assets that we owned was much smaller and so what's happened is and this is a little bit because of the dynamic of the new technology that's coming out both from Boeing and from Airbus.
So our order book now is much bigger versus our aircraft that we own than it was five years ago and so we're just taking capital charges on that order book and many of those aircraft we're not going to get delivered for three four five years and so we're taking capital charges.
And that bigger order book and longer timeframe of those capital charges was really constraining our ability to grow the business.
And so we wanted to be able to grow the business faster than we really were able to inside the current regulatory structure.
And then finally as you know very well we're not getting the correct valuation for that business in our share price and so separating it out allow it to be a pure play so you can see its value and then making CIT itself simpler I hope will improve the valuation of both pieces.
Okay.
That's great and just a quick one final one.
To the extent that you're able to sell or monetize the value of the aircraft leasing business with the gains the generated would you envision reinvesting that capital back into share buybacks at this point is that what the current plan is? So as I said in my comments it's really two things one is repaying debt because the debt structure is still complicated and we do still have to deal with it and/or returning to shareholders.
So it will be some combination of debt repayment and capital return.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Perhaps just to follow up on a couple of the questions that Sameer raised; one of the key strategic elements of the margin expansion story inside the commercial bank was the ability to put aircraft leases into it.
And I know John you spent a lot of time with regulators winning the right to accomplish that.
Without that obviously it's much harder to understand what the path to margin expansion is absent just a better macro environment.
Can you help clarify what the outlook is there? So I'm going to start with your first premise which isn't really correct.
So we have been originating almost all of our new railcar leases in the bank.
We've also been originating all of our maritime loans in the bank and we've been originating our aircraft loans in the bank but we have very few aircraft leases in the bank.
And it would always have been difficult for us to put very many of our aircraft leases in the bank because there is a statutory limitation on high residual assets  in terms of  in the bank.
And so we do have a few airplanes that were leased to U.S.
carriers in the bank which is relatively new.
But given the size of our aircraft fleet there was never any possibility that we could get a significant number of aircraft leases in the bank and so that was not a driver of margin expansion.
And frankly the fact that we can't get the aircraft leases into the bank is one of the other reasons why it makes sense to separate the business because we're not getting a funding advantage of financing through the bank which we do get with the railcars and the maritime leases.
And frankly the maritime loans and also our business aircraft also are in the bank.
So the idea that we were going to get a significant number of aircraft leases in the bank really is not correct.
So it sounds like one of the key differentiating features between the aircraft portfolio and the other kind of Transportation operating leases that you currently underwrite is the funding structure that currently exists for them is that correct? Yes.
So that's exactly right.
And so we do not get much of a benefit of being a bank or bank holding company in the commercial aircraft business which is one of the other reasons why it makes sense to separate it.
Okay.
And so if I can just make it one last one; I mean it seems that with CIT we're frequently in the eighth or ninth inning of a game that has an indeterminate number of innings with respect to the remixing of the business.
So could you give us perhaps some sense of how close we are to the end state and to the run rate of the go-forward company? Well it's a fair question or fair comment that we are continually changing around the business mix and reorganizing but it's not that surprising.
You have a business that when it comes out of bankruptcy there's lots of things that need to be changed and lots of work to be done.
But I think that this most recent set of announcements are at least most of the way towards simplifying what will be the ongoing company.
So with the announcement of China and Canada we will have really disposed of almost all of our international businesses.
So we will be mostly a U.S.
commercial bank centric model.
And we're separating out the air business I think it will be then both businesses will be simpler and easier to understand.
I would never say that we're done because we always come up with something new but I think we're most of the way there.
Thanks very much.
The next question will come from Eric Beardsley of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could talk about the potential tax implications of any sale of aircraft leasing business in terms of whether any gain would be available to be used against the NOL and also in terms of how the deferred tax liabilities on the aircraft would be treated? So I'll answer part of it and then if Carol wants to she can add into that.
So the first answer is it's very dependent on the structure.
And so we haven't talked about what the structure is yet because we don't know yet.
So the tax treatment is very dependent on the structure it's certainly possible to structure something that is not taxable day one or it's obviously possible to structure something that is taxable.
If it was taxable we could use our NOL but that would obviously use up something that's a valuable asset.
So tax  the two big structuring issues are the debt structure which was talked about already and the tax consequences and both of those we're working on.
Got it.
Yeah.
I would only add that whether or not it is a U.S.
or an international subsidiary would play into which if any of the NOLs we utilized.
Yeah.
Got it.
So in terms of  I guess how is it treated now in terms of the business? Is it held at the HoldCo? So if you were to sell the assets at a level higher than their current carrying value would that trigger gain that could be in the U.S.
if you were to sell to  whether it is another aircraft lessor or financial buyer? Yeah.
So mostly aircrafts are held either at the holding company or at subsidiaries of the holding company so they are not  they're located so that they would  we would be able to use the NOL against gains that's the simplest way.
Got it.
And do you have any idea how the deferred tax liability gets treated in the sale? I think that all boils down to the structure that we end up following and it's too early to talk about that at this time.
Okay.
Got it.
Are there any preferences whether you do an outright sale or a spinoff? Any thoughts on the probability at this point? No we're going to explore both.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Arren Cyganovich of D.
A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was wondering if you could talk about how long you've been in this process for looking to jettison the aircraft leasing business and if you hired anybody when you did hire somebody to look at the potential sale? So this is something that's been talked about and contemplated for a while including by many of you and so the idea of monetizing or separating the commercial air business is not a new idea.
We do have advisors that we have hired and the gating factor in terms of talking about it really was getting the OneWest deal closed.
So we had to get OneWest deal closed first and so that deal closed on August 3 and we announced the strategic transactions October 21 so that's pretty fast.
I guess I'm more interested in how long you've been in active discussions about selling the business and how far you are in the process thus far? Well so first of all remember we're using the word separating the business so whether we sell it or whether we spin it off we're going to explore both of those opportunities and it  I think what you're really asking is what's the timeframe for resolving this and I would say this is at least a 12-month timeframe to get done.
12 months to get done but in terms of announcing likely sooner than that though correct? We already announced we're doing it and so now it's really a function of what structure we actually settle on.
Okay.
And just moving on lastly the sale of the commercial leasing business will shrink you from already getting past the SIFI threshold but you'll still be above a $50 billion entity.
Can you talk about your ability to handle the higher regulatory cost of being a large financial institution? Yes.
So we have been actually for some time even before the OneWest transaction moving towards becoming a SIFI because we were just under $50 billion and we knew over time we would go over $50 billion.
So we're doing all of the work we need to comply with the SIFI rules.
I will that we're reasonably optimistic and it actually turns out that they're actually having hearings today on this.
The house financial services committee has hearings on a bill that would eliminate the $50 billion level which of course doesn't  the $50 billion never made any sense and go to a much more rational test which looks at complexity interconnectedness size et cetera to try to get to financial institutions that are really systemically important which we are not.
And so we're reasonably optimistic that there is bipartisan support for that proposal and so hopefully they'll get rid of the $50 billion in any case.
I hope you're right.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
Most of my questions on kind of the restructuring have been asked and answered.
But could you talk a little bit about the $1 billion of loan growth that you called out like what categories what types of loans were they and how did their yields and credit characteristics look? The loan growth is mostly in the North America Banking business and we're seeing fairly consistent pricing with recent trends.
And I think the business held up pretty well in the third quarter given everything else that was going on in market environment at that time.
And the only other thing is prepayments were actually slower.
And so the originations were  the actual net growth was better because prepayments were slower in the third quarter.
Right.
And that when you say North America Banking is that residential mortgage is that commercial what was it? No.
Sorry that's the commercial business.
Yeah.
It's what we used to call our corporate finance business.
Got it.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
I wonder if you could help us think about for 2016 the impact of all the various  or the financial drag or contribution of all the various exit portfolios so on page 18 of the release you've got the $800 million from Canada and the $500 million from China.
And on pages that that's in the presentation on pages 11 and 12 of the press release we see the legacy consumer mortgages which contributed $30 million in the quarter and then we see the non-strategic portfolios which had a $21 million drag.
So help us think about like what is the net impact of all that on the bottom line if you just are in a steady kind of state runoff mode in all these things say from 1Q to 4Q next year and I realize it's impossible to be precise but just help us size that.
Yes.
I think there will be some noise from the exits.
We provided the CTA information in the presentation which of course will go to earnings although not impact capital.
I think most of these businesses were slight drag on earnings so it'll be a small benefit by the end of next year from the exit.
I think the key thing is that they really weren't helping the returns at all because they weren't profitable so it will have a bit of an impact on returns and should be executed we think by the end of next year.
Yeah I think if you look at our page three of our presentation it probably gives you a better idea of the ongoing earnings.
And by the way the legacy consumer mortgages are going to stay there.
So that's not going to change and that's only two months of earnings.
So you will actually pick up an extra month.
So you will have three months of earnings there.
And then that gives you a pretty good picture of what the kind of ex-noise earnings should look like.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee CRT.
Please go ahead.
Jr.
- Sterne Agee CRT</span></strong> Good morning everyone and it's always interesting John.
Thank you Henry.
Jr.
- Sterne Agee CRT</span></strong> Are you going to end up in a position when you successfully quote sell all these assets of having  let's call it a ridiculous amount of capital but the usual hesitance on the likelihood of your regulators so that you can't deploy all this money? Can you give us a sense of exactly how much capital you think would be freed up from these proposed transactions? And with paying down the corporate debt there're some fairly large make-whole premiums to absorb.
So I was wondering how close you are to giving us some numbers to focus on.
Yeah.
Henry unfortunately we're not that close to really answer your question properly because your questions are correct.
Basically it's a question of  once we get all these things done how much debt are we going to pay down what are the make-wholes on those or how do we do that and then how much capital can we return? The only thing I would say about this is that we have been pretty successful at using non-strategic disposals as a way to return capital.
So the regulators have been pretty supportive of when we sell things particularly non-strategic things allowing us to use the proceeds to return to our shareholders.
So there's no promise that that will continue but that has been the past.
And so I guess I'm reasonably optimistic that we will continue to able to do that.
Jr.
- Sterne Agee CRT</span></strong> And I guess the question kind of behind a lot of the questions that have come up on the call  one view on what's going on at the company is that it all happened very quickly.
And another view is that it seems like this is a much more methodical process and I was wondering if you could kind of shed some light on all this because it came at us all very quickly but you're suggesting that this has really been part of a six to nine-month plan? Yes it has been.
It has definitely been a methodical process.
I would say the one thing that took longer than we would have hoped was getting OneWest closed  I did not think it would take us a year to get that deal done.
But it is absolutely sequenced to getting the OneWest deal done first getting it closed and then focusing on the commercial air business.
The other international disposals we have been doing that over the last couple of years.
And so China and Canada really are the last two remaining ones but that's a process that's been going on over the last couple of years.
But it is definitely a methodical thought-out process.
Jr.
- Sterne Agee CRT</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much and congratulations on all your work.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Dave Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I wonder could you just tell us at the end of September how much capital was allocated to the commercial aircraft business the fleet and the order book? And then how much capital was allocated to the Canadian and Chinese business? Rather than guess that number just call Barbara and we can give it to you exactly.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
(41:15) And then I think during the call you mentioned moving some assets from the bank to  from the holding company to the bank did you say that? Yeah.
So  well we have been specifically originating as much of our business into the bank as we can.
We would like to continue that process and so right now our rail  the rail platform is not in the bank I think we would like to move that into the bank.
And we've talked about this before at some point we would like to move our factoring business into the bank.
We have over time although not at significant numbers we have been selling assets to the bank as part of that process.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the goal is to basically shrink our holding company and have as much as possible our business in the bank.
Inc.</span></strong> No it's a great strategy.
I guess historically it was difficult to move assets from the holding company to the bank I think? Yeah.
There are regulatory constraints on that.
So it is something with respect to capital and high residual leases but we have been able to do transactions within the regulations.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Vincent Caintic of Macquarie Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much guys.
Now that you've announced the aerospace strategic alternatives just wanted to get any read on the interest level and maybe the pricing that you're seeing? And also what you're generally thinking about when you're evaluating strategic alternatives? No it's too early for that.
So we're just at the early stage of working on what the structure will be.
So I can't give you any idea.
Other than we will be sure to include alternatives that are totally in our control.
So for instance a spin is totally in our control and so we will be able to execute a transaction regardless of what level of interest there is.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it and then as you are thinking about so understanding the rationale for selling the aerospace business there have been other transactions out there also for about book.
I was just wondering how you think about your business when you see say the landscape of say railcar vendor finance transactions out there? Sorry I didn't understand the last part of your question.
So what  the aircraft business yes it obviously sells at a premium  it sells or trades at a premium to book.
You can look at the publicly traded companies or the deals that are done; I didn't understand how you are mixing the rail business in there? Inc.</span></strong> Just in terms of  so there've been railcar businesses that have been sold and vendor finance businesses.
In the thinking of selling the aerospace business is there any thought to perhaps other transactions out there for realizing value? Well this goes into Henry Coffey's comment about we're always doing things that are interesting.
Let us work on getting this one done first and then  and I think that this one makes the most strategic sense and  look our ongoing businesses are actually doing well.
So they're all  all of our businesses are growing.
Our rail franchise has very attractive returns right now.
And many of the assets of the rail business are in the bank and funded by the banks that is predominantly in the U.S.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Right.
Makes sense.
Just one more from me because I'm getting a lot of investor questions on this.
The prospectus that came out this morning anything to read into that? Thank you.
Yeah so that was a contractual requirement as part of the merger agreement.
So we needed to provide a prospectus for the large shareholders to be able to sell under.
They are technically allowed to sell half of their holdings.
That doesn't say anything about whether or not they will sell but it just gives them the legal ability to sell half their holdings.
And that was part of the merger agreement.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Our next question will come from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
This is actually Yuman Lui filling in for Bill.
So historically your core middle market commercial lending franchise has completed directly with GE Capital and Wells Fargo.
What does Wells Fargo's recent $31 billion acquisition of GE Capital's specialty finance business do to the competitive intensity that CIT is facing? So hopefully it removes one of the biggest competitors.
So you're absolutely right our main competitors were Wells and GE and now it's just Wells.
And so actually we think it's an advantage that Wells bought those businesses rather than someone else.
Wells is a very good and very strong competitor but basically we just took out one of our two main competitors in terms of the marketplace.
Our next question will come from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just have a follow-up question on the rail business.
It sounds like  I guess when I saw the release a couple of weeks ago I thought that rail would be next.
But it sounds like from the conversation today that you're pretty happy with the rail business as part of the new CIT going forward.
And a lot of those assets can be financed in the bank.
Is that what I'm hearing and can you give us an idea of how long it would take to get the full rail business into the bank? So the first part of your question is correct.
Yes we are financing almost all the railcars in the bank; that is an advantage for us; it's very attractive funding for us.
The ability to get the rest of them in the bank is a little bit just dependent upon at what point we can make capital contributions or asset contributions to the bank.
As I talked about before there is a constraint on the amount of high-residual assets that can be in the bank.
But today again almost all the new railcars are being financed in the bank and that's definitely a competitive advantage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then on the oil and gas exposure I wasn't clear from the release and the slide deck just sort of how you feel about the trends there.
Obviously we've got oil weighing on that sector but can you talk specifically about sort of NPA trends in that portfolio and what the severity potentially looks like? That's exactly why we have Rob Rowe here.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Chris the reason why we brought this out in the earnings release and John discussed it upfront is that the credit migration is  the negative credit migration is greater than what you would see in a typical portfolio.
And at the current level of oil prices and when you think about the third quarter oil prices declined another 20% and the rig count declined as well and there is a little bit of a lag effect.
We expect that negative credit migration to continue on into the fourth quarter so that's why we brought it out.
Overall it's a 3% of the overall loan book so it's not a huge portion but there is definitely pressure in that portfolio.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay and a sense of severity? Well we take that into account in our reserving loan by loan.
We took that into the account when we marked the OneWest energy portfolio.
We take that into account when we consider qualitative reserves on particular books so where we stand today takes into account $45 oil price.
What is hard to actually know for sure is because there's a lag effect and you'll see that in our borrowers we would expect at $45 the performance of our borrowers will actually decline for the next couple of quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
I have one more question if I could.
It seems like just from a high level that the competitive environment got a little better this quarter you had a very strong quarter in North American Commercial Finance originations new business volume was up significantly.
You mentioned prepayments being down.
Are we finally seeing some increased rationality in the market here? So I think that there is two things kind of going on.
I think that there the competitive environment is probably a little bit better and yields were pretty stable and I think it helps that GE was in the process of selling their businesses and so that was disruptive I think to them.
I think that the counter to that though is the industrial economy in the U.S.
to us at least seems to be getting weaker which is a negative.
And so I think it's hard to know for sure how those two things are going to work out we'll have to see but the  we're I think more negative about the industrial economy at the moment that I would have been six months ago.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks John.
Yeah.
The next question will come from David Hilder of Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Two questions.
I guess the first is to try to get back to David's question about capital in a different way.
It looks like you have about $10.5 billion in aircraft loans and leases and about $10.5 billion in commitments to purchase aircraft or at least at the end of June are those  do those translate into risk weighted assets on one-for-one basis or is there some adjustment factor that would cause either of those to be greater or lesser? Both the on-book and the off-book attract 100% risk weighted assets.
It's the same regardless.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just to confirm is it your expectation today that you'll go through the CCAR process next year with everyone else? So it's your last little fray.
So we do expect we will file  we will go through the CCAR process but because we're  it's a first time for us it won't be quite the same as for everybody else certainly not the same as for the biggest banks.
And is there a significant difference in what the process or what the fed could do to your ability to pay dividends and buyback stock? The real answer is we have to get permission to do that anyway and so it doesn't really change that.
It's just that it's not quite the same public process as the biggest institutions go through.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And the next question will be a follow-up from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes in thinking through the range of strategic options that might be on the table for what you call separating the two businesses and it sounds like it would be complicated to spin the aircraft leasing business out because all the debt's at the parent and so on.
Is it a theoretical possibility to just put as many assets into the bank as possible and then spin out the bank or sell the bank? And then the company that you'd be left with at the holding company is effectively an air leasing company? All right.
So we're not going to get into all the complicated structure on this call we are exploring lots of different structures.
I think the simple way to think about it is it is a complicated problem because we have to deal with the debt at our parent company and that's true no matter what we do and then we have to deal with the tax consequences again that's no matter what we do but I would not rule out because of complexity a spin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
And at this time we have no additional questions in the queue.
We will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Barbara Callahan for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Denise and thank you everyone for joining this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact me or any member of the Investor Relations team.
You can find our contact information along with other information on CIT in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Thanks again for your time and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kate and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session later in the call.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Barbara Callahan Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Kate.
Good morning and welcome to CIT's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our call today will be hosted by John Thain our Chairman and CEO; and Carol Hayles our CFO.
After John and Carol's prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion is our Chief Risk Officer Rob Rowe.
As a courtesy to others on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the call queue if you have additional questions.
We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning.
Elements of this call are forward-looking in nature and may involve risks uncertainties and contingencies that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
Any forward-looking statements relate only to the time of  and date of this call.
We disclaim any duty to update these statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For information about risk factors relating to the business please refer to our 2014 10-K.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are meant to provide meaningful insights and are reconciled with GAAP in our press release.
Also as part of the call this morning we will be referencing a presentation that is available in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
I'll now turn the call over to John Thain.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for being on the call.
2015 was a pivotal year in CIT's evolution to a commercial banking model.
The acquisition of OneWest expanded and diversified our deposit funding it lowered our funding costs and it enhanced our retail banking product offerings.
As we continue our integration of OneWest we're leveraging the combined capabilities to grow our businesses.
We continued the rationalization of our bank holding company with the planned divestitures of our platforms in China and Canada and the separation of our Commercial Air Business.
We completed the sale of our platform in Brazil in the fourth quarter and the UK sale closed in January.
We also streamlined the management structure to improve operational efficiencies.
In December Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded our group credit profile to BBB- and last week they rated CIT Bank BBB-.
It has been one of our strategic goals to attain investment grade ratings and I'm very pleased to say we've gotten there.
Fitch also published a very comprehensive report on us in January.
We had a good fourth quarter despite the weakness in the U.S.
economy.
We reported $144 million after-tax income but adjusted for some specific items that Carol will discuss; we earned $220 million after tax.
Funded volume was strong at $4.2 billion.
Financing and leasing assets in our Transportation business were up 6%.
And the assets financing and leasing assets in our North America Banking businesses were down due to the sale of $500 million of leverage loans prepayments and lower balances in our commercial services business.
The increase in credit reserve was primarily related to our oil and gas loan book and our maritime lending.
Other than those two areas the credit quality in our portfolio remains stable.
Given the recent performance of the equity market and our stock price the market seems to indicate a recession is imminent.
I don't see that.
Low energy prices do not cause recessions.
While the energy sector itself is weak the U.S.
economy is still growing.
As we've disclosed in the past we have about $940 million of loans to the energy sector.
We've given you some additional information on this portfolio in our investor presentation.
As you can see there we have average loss coverage of 10% of the principal balance which includes the discount on loans acquired from OneWest and reserves.
Our commercial aircrafts are back to being 100% utilized.
Our railcar utilization declined to 96% and yields on Rail assets declined primarily due to weakness in cars carrying crude coal and steel.
And we expect this weakness to continue.
However we have alternative uses for some of these cars; for example tank cars can carry other types of liquids.
We have a strong team who has been through many cycles.
Part of our business strategy and competitive advantage is to manage our mix of railcars and how they're used.
This business provides attractive returns and new railcars are being funded in our bank.
The quarter contained a full three months of OneWest Bank financial results which were accretive to earnings as we expected.
We continue to be well-capitalized with total capital of 13.3% and we maintained ample liquidity with $11.3 billion of cash and investment securities.
We're making progress on the separation of our Commercial Air Business where we continue to pursue both a spin-off and a sale.
And we're in active discussions with potential buyers of our China and our non-rail Canadian businesses.
These actions when complete will accomplish our transition to a regional commercial bank with a nationwide middle-market lending and leasing franchise.
And I'll now turn the call over to Carol.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
As John mentioned we completed several strategic initiatives in 2015 that had a meaningful impact on our financial position during the year.
Financing and leasing assets grew 27% deposits now account for 64% of total funding funding costs declined by 100 basis points to 2.2% and 65% of our total assets are now in CIT Bank up from 44% a year ago.
When we complete the separation of Air and the sales of our China and Canada businesses we expect more than 80% of our balance sheet to be in the Bank.
Turning to the fourth quarter results.
Fourth quarter pre-tax income from continuing operations which included a full quarter of contribution from OneWest increased sequentially to $141 million.
There were two notable items in the results relating to our strategic initiative; a restructuring charge for the streamlining of the management team and a currency translation adjustment related to completing the sale of the Brazil platform.
Excluding these items which aggregated to about $100 million pre-tax income was $245 million representing a pre-tax ROA (sic) [ROAEA] (08:09) of approximately 1.7%.
Earning assets were unchanged from the prior quarter.
Transportation &amp; International Finance assets grew as we took deliveries from our order book.
But that was offset by a reduction in North America Banking which was driven by asset sales loan pre-payments and seasonally lower balances in commercial services.
Net finance margin decreased by 10 basis points to approximately 3.6% driven by several items; in Air higher operating lease expense most of which we do not expect to recur and higher depreciation; in Rail where we expect to have additional headwinds a decline in yield was driven by lower utilization; and we had the benefit of a full quarter of OneWest including the lower funding costs.
We continue to be asset-sensitive driven by our loan portfolio as well as our sizable cash position which we expect to shift into HQLA investments and grow over time.
In the near term we expect net finance margin to be around 3.5% as the benefits of building an investment portfolio partially offset finance and leasing asset yield compression.
Credit quality remains stable with the exception of certain energy-related exposure and to a lesser degree maritime.
In the commercial loan book charge-offs remain at low levels and non-accruals are approximately 1% of finance receivables.
The increase in non-accruals consisted mainly of energy loans.
The credit provision was $50 million about a quarter of which related to energy exposure.
We provided additional information on the energy portfolio on slide 12 of the presentation.
You can see that about half of the $940 million of exposure is related to E&amp;P 30% to energy services and 20% to midstream.
In aggregate 27% of the total exposure is criticized.
And when combining the purchase accounting mark and the allowance we have about a 10% loss coverage against this portfolio.
Moving to other income.
As you can see on slide seven lower sales of operating lease equipment drove the decline in other income during the quarter offsetting an increase in capital markets and bank fees.
As John said we closed the sale of the UK equipment finance platform in January and expect to have a benefit of about $20 million in the first quarter.
Excluding restructuring costs and the amortization of intangibles operating expenses were quite a bit below the normal run rate due to lower employee costs and adjustments related to FDIC insurance premiums.
The benefit in employee cost was approximately $20 million largely a function of the reversal of accruals for incentive compensation and benefits of which approximately half relates to the changes in the management team.
While the first quarter expenses will be elevated due to benefit restarts we expect a more normalized run rate of approximately $325 million per quarter in the near term.
The tax provision was a benefit of $10 million reflecting $27 million of discrete items and a true-up to a full year effective tax rate of approximately 23% reflecting the geographic mix of earnings for 2015.
We continue to expect the effective tax rate in 2016 to be in the low to mid-30% range reflecting the shift to more U.S.
income.
The tax rate is expected to remain in the mid to high single-digits.
Turning to our business segments.
Transportation &amp; International Finance generated pre-tax income of $156 million and a pre-tax ROA (sic) [ROAEA] (12:08) of about 3% as growth in finance revenue was offset by higher costs related to the operating lease portfolios.
Financing and leasing assets grew to $20.8 billion reflecting $1.7 billion of new volume comprised of $1.2 billion of equipment mostly from the order book deliveries and $500 million of loans.
Our Commercial Air portfolio has grown to nearly $11 billion and utilization has improved with all aircraft and scheduled 2016 deliveries having lease commitments.
In addition lease expirations this year are at a more normal level around 15% and we are making good progress on placements.
Fundamentals in this industry remain favorable with growth forecast for global air travel remaining strong at around 6% per year.
Rail utilization is trending down from the recent historical high and is now 96%.
While the parts of the portfolio that service the consumer economy have been stable demand for crude coal and steel cars is weakening as we anticipated.
Therefore we expect utilization to trend to the low 90% range and rental rates to decline as leases expire.
However as John mentioned we have a great team here and expect the business to continue to generate double-digit returns despite the headwinds.
Maritime assets grew to $1.7 billion with yields on new business volumes trending above the portfolio yield.
We re-evaluated our exposure in light of current conditions in the dry bulk market and increased our reserves accordingly.
Current estimated loan-to-values average around 75% across this portfolio.
Moving on to North America Banking.
This segment reported pre-tax income of $87 million equivalent to a pre-tax ROA (sic) [ROAEA] (14:08) of 1.5%.
Similar to last quarter net finance margin increased benefiting from the accretion on acquired loans and lower cost of funds.
These benefits more than offset lower yields on new originations which predominately reflected change in mix towards higher credit quality assets.
New business volume grew over 19% sequentially with particularly strong results in commercial real estate and consumer banking.
Overall financing and leasing assets declined due to the seasonal nature of the factoring business and the sale of some leverage loans as part of our ongoing portfolio management.
We expect to further reduce our leverage loan portfolio in the near term but at a slower pace.
Legacy Consumer Mortgage is a run-off portfolio most of which is covered by loss-sharing agreements.
Financing and leasing assets declined by roughly 3% to $5.5 billion and pre-tax income totaled $41 million representing a full quarter of activity.
During 2015 we returned nearly $650 million of capital to shareholders through dividends and the repurchase of almost 12 million shares.
Capital remained strong with a CET1 ratio of 12.7%.
And as John mentioned we are pleased that CIT Bank has received an investment grade rating from S&amp;P acknowledging the improvements we have made in our underwriting and risk management practices as well as our strong capital and liquidity position.
With regard to future capital returns as we mentioned previously we will participate in CCAR this year; however we will not be included in the public disclosures.
Given this we do not expect to take any new capital actions until we receive feedback from our regulators.
In summary we are focused on our plan to improve returns and create shareholder value and Ellen and I look forward to sharing these with you on March 23 when we will host a strategic update call.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Kate and we'll take your questions.
The first question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
John if I could just follow up on some of the credit quality issues.
Could you just help us understand what the  sort of what the  maybe if you can on the mark that you took on the acquired assets what oil price did that assume? And can you give us some sense of what the exposure would be if oil prices for example continue to decline or even just stay at this current level? And then on the maritime what is the driver of the deterioration there? All right.
So I'll start and then Rob Rowe can add if he wants.
So the marks were done as of August.
So they used the price of oil and the market conditions as of August.
So that  the deal closed on August 3 so that's when the marks were done.
As we've disclosed if oil stays at $30 a barrel we expect the portfolio to experience further credit deterioration and we're not going to quantify that.
But we also believe that this is a very high quality book.
And Rob you can add to that if you want.
Sure.
So Eric at the point that we closed on the deal John is right we assumed the price at that point in time.
We did assume though that these  the conditions that have happened meaning that this has been going on for a while we did assume that this would continue to go on for a while in terms of energy prices being low okay.
And secondarily what I would say in terms of the overall portfolio is we would expect non-accruals to increase over the next six months by $50 million to $100 million.
Our non-accruals are mostly current today but we believe  it's our view that we have to reflect them as non-accruals if we believe we're not going to get back principal and interest.
And so we are assuming an elongated period of time where oil prices will remain low.
On your question on maritime the reason for the incremental reserves there is really a decline in the lease rates on dry bulk ships and the resulting decline in the value of those ships.
And so we've seen an increase in the loan-to-values in that portfolio.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Is the spin of the Commercial Air business still your base case scenario? And then just a related question I know you've commented on this but interested to get your updated thoughts on kind of long-term plans for the Rail business whether that could get spun off as well? So when we said that the spin was the base case the reason for that which we also explained is that that's in our control.
So we can ensure that the spin takes place.
But we've also said that we are running what's called a dual track so we're also exploring a sale.
So to the extent that there is a purchaser who is interested in purchasing the business we'll weigh the pros (20:16) and cons of a sale versus a spin.
So we'll do both.
But the spin is the base case because that's in our control.
And on the Rail.
Sorry.
On the Rail so  we've also gotten this question before.
And what we've said is that the Rail business as both Carol and I said is a very attractive return business.
It  we're funding our new railcars in the bank which is an attractive form of funding for us.
And unlike the Air business which has a large and very long-dated order book that we take capital charges on before the aircraft are delivered the Rail business has a relatively small at least compared to its earning assets and a relatively short in terms of duration order book.
So we don't have the regulatory capital negative that we have with the Air business.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Eric Beardsley of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just wanted to clarify the OpEx guidance for $325 million.
I guess how much of a benefit does that have from the I guess sale of the non-strategic portfolios and also the recent management changes? I think in the past you've said you'd have a $15 million quarterly benefit from the non-strategic and somewhere around a two-year breakeven on those management changes.
So I was thinking it could be somewhat lower than a $325 million level.
Yeah.
The benefits from the exit of the non-strategic portfolios have been coming in over time as we have sold each of the portfolios.
So you are correct.
We would see a little bit still to come from Brazil in the fourth quarter and the UK in the first quarter but Mexico and some of the other sales have already happened and were in the run rate.
So there's probably a few million dollars there.
And we did say the management team changes resulted in  had a two-year payback.
So that's approximately $7 million a quarter.
As you can imagine there are a few puts and takes at the moment.
And I think to give you any more clarity on what we'll be running at going forward is something Ellen and I would look to do at the end of March.
Got it.
So I guess how do we go from the fourth quarter level where this is an adjusted $283 million up to that $325 million? Well as I said there was about  I kind of did an adjusted number of about $300 million to look at that math again.
But there was about a $20 million benefit from the reversal of accruals and everything so that would come back up.
And then there was a benefit as I said from FDIC insurance premiums as we work through the combined rate for the new organization and bringing  adjusting to what we expect to be the run rate going forward.
And so those items absent a first quarter uptick took us to about the $325 million.
And as we continue to go through integration there's a slightly elevated cost in our expense base for that.
The next question comes from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
In terms of the spin or the sale of Air what are some of the logistical steps that need to be taken? Do you have to put together a separate P&amp;L? And are there any specific debt-related issues where there's certain  is there any debt that can't be transferred if you sell Air? Or are there any blockages there? Good morning Henry.
So a couple of thoughts.
So the two biggest logistical issues in terms of either the sale or the spin of Air is first to create the P&amp;L for the business.
So it is  it did not have its own P&amp;L and so as we've talked about we are in the process of creating that P&amp;L.
And we need that for either a sale or for a spin.
And so that's in process.
The second logistical item that takes time is the aircraft were not in a single legal entity actually they were in many different legal entities.
So we need to collect the aircraft and put them underneath a single holding company.
So moving the aircraft or the companies that they're in takes a certain amount of time.
So those are the two logistical kind of items that take the longest time is getting the financials and getting all the aircraft in one legal entity.
Yeah.
I would just add to that.
Creating this legal entity is important whether it's a sale or a spin because we would anticipate a sale would be of a legal entity and not just the airplanes.
We would anticipate it being a platform with people and the assets.
So Henry let me follow up on your debt question because the debt structure is also a complication but that we have to deal with it in any case because the Air business or this new company will not be levered properly.
And so it needs to have debt put on it.
The second thing is we have to deal with the debt at our holding company.
And so the exact mechanism of how we put debt on to the new company and how we extinguish debt at our holding company is somewhat complicated and also depends on the ultimate structure of whether it's a sale or a spin.
The fact that some of the air leasing companies are now selling below book value would that deter you from this process? Or is it full speed ahead at a measured pace? Yeah.
So the answer is it is full speed ahead.
And the reason is it's not necessarily driven solely by where the air lease companies trade  obviously we're trading below book value as well but it's more a function of the regulatory capital charges that we were taking on the order book.
And it's particularly true as the order book has gotten so much bigger compared to the earning assets.
So as both Airbus and Boeing brought out new generation of aircraft we for competitive reasons wanted to participate in those new generation of aircraft.
So our order book got much bigger as a relationship to our earning assets.
And also because we and everyone else are ordering these new aircraft it got longer.
So the aircraft delivery times stretched out.
So we're taking capital charges on an order book that we don't get an earning asset for a long period of time.
And that capital charge was beginning to basically hurt the business because we were restricting its growth because of the capital charges.
So that driver of not wanting to take the capital charges and not restricting its growth and the fact that the aircraft for the most part are not going into the bank so there's no particular advantage to being part of a bank is really the driver.
Particularly in the case of a spin the shareholders will get the benefit of improvements in the valuation of aircraft leasing companies if that happens in any case.
So the fundamental answer to your question is we're going forward.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
I guess just an observation maybe than a question.
I guess it seems to me that the size of that order book was probably a lot larger as a percentage of the earning asset of the company before you bought OneWest but whatever.
I guess moving on; maybe could you just talk a little bit about how the lease rates on those renewals in aircraft are comparing to what you had on the books? And also maybe just talk a little bit about the size and scope of the weakness in Air  in Rail excuse me.
Like is it a function of utilization? Is it a function of rates? Is it both? Can you kind of dimension that a little bit? All right Moshe.
Let me first go to your observation.
So the point wasn't that if the order book isn't compared to our total assets it's the order book compared to the aircrafts' earning assets.
So I'm just going to use round numbers.
Today we have a $10 billion order book and about $10 billion of earning assets all right.
That relationship has changed a lot over the last five years.
And so it's the order book to the earning assets of the aircraft leasing business not to our total assets.
So when we look at the returns on equity in the aircraft  in the Commercial Air business we're basically taking double the capital charges now which wasn't the case five years ago.
Okay.
With respect to yields on new orders the Air business rates have stabilized; and Rail the rates as we said are coming down.
The rates are coming down but utilization is also coming down.
So there's a bit of a double headwind there.
Right.
And it's in the specific car types we talked about.
So it's in the cars that carry crude that carry coal and carry steel.
Yeah.
Great.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Arren Cyganovich of D.
A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
In terms of the corporate finance business we are seeing credit spreads widen out significantly.
Are you seeing origination trends slow down because of higher pricing? Are you seeing pricing improve much? What are your thoughts on your sponsor finance side of the business? Well you are right that the spreads have widened out a little bit.
They're still at a level  given that the overall interest rates are low they're still at a level that allows for deal activity to happen.
So we're seeing pretty good activity which is one of the reasons why we decided in the fourth quarter to sell some of our broadly syndicated loans because as you know our core focus is in the middle-market.
And so we've made that decision in the fourth quarter to sell some of the broadly syndicated.
So the activity is still pretty good.
Thanks.
And I guess just following up on the Air there's clearly been a lot of concern on that side of the business particularly in valuations of wide-body aircraft I guess some concerns about increases in productions.
Are you seeing anything it doesn't sound like you are; but are you seeing anything to indicate weakness in terms of valuation of existing aircraft out there? No not really.
We don't have the largest aircraft but we have middle-size aircraft and we've been successful at placing our middle-size aircraft.
And I think as the new middle-size aircraft the 787s and the A350s start being available actually they're getting quite attractive lease rates.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wonder John if you could expand on your comments about the current macro situation and where you're seeing signs of strength potentially in the U.S.
economy? And I guess a related question competitive environment; are you seeing any changes in pre-payment speeds or loan demand? I realize the market conditions are relatively new mostly started in 2016 but I wonder if there's any silver lining in some of the capital markets downturn from a competitive standpoint? Thanks.
Sure.
In terms of the U.S.
economy it's not so much of their strength that's too strong of a word because I think the U.S.
economy is growing 2-ish% GDP growth plus or minus 0.5% probably.
And of course the fourth quarter was weaker than that although we'll see if it gets revised or not.
But it's not in recession.
And that's my point.
So if the U.S.
economy continues to grow at 2-ish% GDP growth our business is going to continue to grow as well.
And so the activity level we saw in the fourth quarter even though the U.S.
economy was weak was still pretty good.
So I wouldn't say the U.S.
economy was strong I just think that the way the equity market seems to be reacting is overdone.
And in terms of the pre-payment speeds we are not seeing a significant deviation from where it's been.
The only minor change is that there have been less dividend re-financings over the last six months.
That's been noticeable.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And in any vertical in particular that you're seeing good loan demand or solid loan demand at this point? Healthcare we're seeing pretty good loan demand because as you know the healthcare expenditures have started to pick up again.
So that's been bullish for our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks guys.
The next question comes from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow up on some of your earlier comments about the need to establish the aircraft business with its own set of financial statements its own debt its own employee base.
And I was hoping to kind of zero in on the capital base that would be required.
And kind of how you thought about the interplay between on one hand the capital relief associated with not having to hold capital against the order book versus on the other hand the level of capital that would need to be established for the new entity? Sure.
So that's still a work-in-progress but we do want the Air business to have investment grade ratings.
So if you look at the publicly-traded companies as a comparable the equity of the new company will probably have to be in the order of 25% to 30%.
So if it has 25% to 30% equity then you can figure out how much  the rest can be debt a portion of which can be secured primarily ECA or Ex-Im (35:30) and you can kind of construct the capital structure from that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And I guess from the standpoint of  from a structuring perspective I would have thought that one potential way to complete  if you went down a sale path to complete the transaction would have been kind of more of an asset sale versus the sale of kind of a separate company.
It sounds like from your comments that asset sale is not something that you are really thinking about anymore that you're kind of thinking about it more as a sale of a separate entity.
Maybe could you share some thoughts on that? Yeah.
You're absolutely right.
So we view this as a sale of a business.
And so we certainly believe it is much more valuable as a business rather than as simply a collection of aircraft.
And so we don't think we would maximize the value we get from selling just the portfolio of aircraft.
So we believe the platform is actually very valuable.
And frankly our Commercial Air team and the business that we have is arguably one of the best in the business.
And so I think there is a lot of value to the platform as a whole.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Sure.
The next question comes from David Ho of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you talk a little bit about the deposit strategy? It seems like you're getting some good non-interest-bearing deposit growth obviously off smaller base.
And just want to touch up on the retail deposit strategy and kind of commercial deposit strategy.
And maybe how much traction do you think you can achieve in the next 12 months 18 months? Yeah.
So there is a several-pronged approach to our deposit strategy as you noted right.
We now have the branch footprint from the OneWest acquisition which we would work to build out; there's the Internet bank which we've had for quite a while; and then we have the commercial deposit strategy.
I think there'll be more on this when we talk to you at the end of March.
But certainly from a commercial perspective which  where CIT did not have any real traction in the past the functionality and systems we acquired with OneWest give us that opportunity.
However that  it does take time to build out and we are working on that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And separately going back to the railcar ROAs and how close are we to normalizing a bit on the gains on leasing equipment relative to your comments about the energy weakness and lower utilization rates going forward? I think gains on sale of equipment will vary quarter-to-quarter just by the nature of what we are selling right whether it's an individual airplane which tends to  is obviously a bigger asset versus railcars.
So I don't think we can really predict what the gains will be quarter-to-quarter on that.
And with respect to the returns on the assets in the Rail business going back to what we said we would expect there to be a bit of a headwind there given utilization and rental rates on those cars that we've said we have some headwinds on coal tank and steel.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris York of JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for taking my questions.
So my question on OpEx guidance was asked but I'd like to get some more color on the pickup in the maintenance and other operating lease expense line in the quarter.
Was any of that pick up due to weakness in Rail and the operation of some railcars for alternative services? Okay.
That's actually a good question and I think about that separately to the operating expenses of the business right.
So that's related to the ownership of our planes and our trains.
During the quarter there was a pickup in the op lease expense in Air.
We had a couple of planes that came off lease that needed to be kind of refurbished and everything and caused elevated costs in the quarter.
That's the item that I said wouldn't  we wouldn't expect to recur at that level.
There will be a little bit of uptick in depreciation in Air in 2016 but otherwise wouldn't expect those costs to continue.
And in Rail again a little bit of elevated maintenance costs but that's not going to be the big driver of the headwind in Rail it's the other points that we've already discussed.
I think also  I do want to go back to the operating expense comment because it occurred to me  I can't remember who mentioned it they said that were starting at $287 million and I said my number was around $300 million.
The difference is the increment the additional one month of OneWest expenses that were not in Q3 if that was the starting point that you were using.
Got it.
Thanks for the clarifications.
Thank you.
And next we have a follow-up from Arren Cyganovich of D.
A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Sorry for the follow-up.
But the tax rate I'm sorry I think I missed the beginning part of that in your commentary.
I think even after adjusting for the $15 million discrete benefit it was a low single-digit tax rate.
What was driving that relative to the future expectation of in the kind of low to mid-30%s or low 30% range? Actually so in the fourth  each quarter you have to true-up your effective tax rate to your full year rate.
And as we closed out the year the full year rate was in the low 20%s versus where we had expected it to be in the high 20%s earlier in the year.
So the fourth quarter includes an adjustment to bring the full year rate to 23%.
And that brought down the effective rate in the quarter.
Going to next year our guidance is still in the mid to low 30% range based on the shift of earnings to the U.S.
from being more international in the past.
Cash taxes of course we expect to stay in the low single-digit  double-digit numbers.
Single-digit.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Under 15%.
Right.
Yeah.
Thanks.
There are no additional questions at this time.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Barbara Callahan for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact me or any member of the investor relations team.
You can find our contact information along with other information on CIT in the investor relations section of our website at www.cit.com.
Thanks again for your time and have a great day.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.