Welcome to the First Quarter 2011 ConocoPhillips Earning Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Clayton Reasor Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Reasor you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in ConocoPhillips.
We're here to talk about our first quarter 2011 results.
And I'm joined today by Jeff Sheets Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we'll provide a summary of our key financial and operating results for the first quarter as well as our outlook for 2011.
As in the past you can find our presentation materials on the Investor Relations section of ConocoPhillips website.
Before we get started I'd like you to take a look at the Safe Harbor statement we've got on Slide 2.
And it's just a reminder that we'll be making forward-looking statements during the presentation and the question-and-answer session.
Actual results may differ materially from what's presented today.
And factors that could cause actual results to differ are included in our filings with the SEC.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff to take you through our prepared remarks and presentation.
Thanks Clayton.
And good morning to those on the call and those listening in on the Web.
I'll start with Slide 2 which highlights some of our first quarter results.
So during the first quarter our earnings after adjustment for special items were $2.6 billion.
That's $1.82 a share which is up from $1.47 share in the first quarter of 2010.
We had improved financial results this quarter compared to a year ago however we experienced more unscheduled downtime than normal in both our E&amp;P and R&amp;M sectors and that adversely impacted income by about $150 million.
Earlier in the quarter we announced a 20% increase into our dividend and our board authorized a $10 billion share repurchase program.
And in the quarter we returned $2.6 billion of cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Our annualized return on capital was 12% for the quarter and cash returned on capital was 21%.
Our first quarter production was 1.7 million BOE per day and our global refining capacity was 89% during the first quarter.
During the quarter we generated cash from operations of $4 billion excluding working capital changes and ended the quarter with $8.4 billion in cash and short-term investments.
So let's turn to Slide 3 and discuss some of the details of our performance.
So the total company adjusted earnings were $2.6 billion up $426 million compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Both E&amp;P and R&amp;M improved earnings from over a year ago.
Our E&amp;P segment improved $282 million due to higher liquids prices which were partially offset by lower production volumes and higher production taxes.
Compared to the first quarter last year our R&amp;M segment generated $459 million more in earnings this quarter due primarily to higher refining margins.
Controllable costs were flat for the quarter compared with a year ago.
However variable compensation expenses related to prior year performance negatively impacted earnings for the quarter by about $50 million and that cost was spread out across the operating segments.
This quarter's earnings were also negatively impacted by the discontinuation of equity accounting for LUKOIL.
So if you exclude the $385 million impact of LUKOIL earnings in the first quarter of 2010 our adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2011 are around $800 million higher than our earnings in the first quarter of last year.
So we move to our next slide and take a look at production levels for the quarter.
First quarter production was 1.7 million BOE per day that's 126 000 BOE per day lower than the first quarter of last year.
Field decline decreased production this quarter versus last quarter by about 187 000 BOE per day that's primarily out of the North Sea Lower 48 China and Alaska.
But nearly offsetting this decline was 175 000 BOE per day of production from new projects as well as new drilling and improved well performance around our existing production.
Now the increase in production from projects is primarily from Qatargas 3 Bohai Bay and the Lower 48 liquids-rich shale plays.
Downtime also adversely impacted our production during the quarter.
The 65 000-barrel per day reduction is primarily due to civil unrest in Libya several-day shutdown of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System in January supply vessel collision with our Brittania platform in the U.K.
and other downtime in the North Sea.
The impact to production from asset dispositions was 49 000 BOE per day.
Nearly all of this is related to the dispositions we did in 2010 in Canada and the Lower 48.
We filled some additional nonoperated interest in the Lower 48 in the first quarter but that only impacted production by about 2 000 BOE per day.
If you look just at North America natural gas the reduction was about 50 000 BOE per day of this total decrease in production.
So if you turn to Slide 5 we can talk about E&amp;P earnings.
So E&amp;P adjusted earnings for the quarter were $2.2 billion which was 15% higher than the same quarter a year ago.
Higher prices and other market impacts contributed $519 million of the increased earnings.
The earnings improvement was partially offset by a $294 million decrease in after-tax revenue from lower sales volume and there was a $57 million benefit from costs and other items during the quarter.
So if you look at the table on the bottom of the slides you can see that the improved E&amp;P earnings were driven by international earnings.
The U.S.
adjusted earnings declined compared to the first quarter last year largely driven by lower volumes partially offset by higher liquids prices.
Our realized crude oil and NGL prices were higher in the first quarter of last year while realized prices for bitumen and natural gas were flat to slightly lower.
The impact of lower Henry Hub prices being partially offset by higher natural gas prices internationally.
So we'll move to the next slide and talk about E&amp;P metrics.
Look at E&amp;P income per BOE both income per BOE and cash contributions per BOE increased reflecting the improvement in prices for oil and NGL as well as some self-help in the form of shifts in our production mix.
We continue to shift production away from Lower 48 and Canadian natural gas given our view that natural gas prices are going to be pretty subdued in the near to medium term.
And Lower 48 represents a shrinking -- Lower 48 and Canada gas represents a shrinking part of our portfolio.
If you look at 2008 it was 28% of our portfolio it was 26% in 2010 and 24% in the first quarter of 2011.
So full year 2010 E&amp;P income per BOE was $10.56.
If you look at the first quarter it was $14.34 so an improvement of $3.80 per BOE.
About 10% of this margin improvement can be explained by the shift in production away from Lower 48 and Canadian natural gas that I just discussed.
So turning to R&amp;M on Slide 7.
Our Refining &amp; Marketing adjusted earnings improved significantly over the same quarter a year ago.
Downstream market conditions were stronger in the U.S.
and U.S.
market cracks improved over 130% driving a $464 million improvement in margins and other impacts.
Volumes were a small benefit this quarter compared to the first quarter last year mainly driven by increased volumes in some of our specialty businesses and in U.S.
marketing.
Our refining capacity utilization of 86.7% from the quarter was essentially unchanged from the first quarter of last year.
International refining capacity increased to 96% up from 79% of the same quarter of last year when we adjust for the fact that we are no longer operating the Wilhelmshaven refinery.
Unplanned downtime cost us about 2% of first quarter utilization and the majority of this downtime occurred at our Sweeny and our Borger refineries.
Compared to the first quarter of 2010 operating costs were $26 million higher primarily due to higher maintenance compensation and environmental and turnaround costs partially offset by some lower utility costs.
As you saw on our press release we built inventory in R&amp;M in the quarter.
Because we're in the market buying crude for refineries and selling products both from our refineries and our upstream assets we had a strong fiscal position which allows us to do some profitable trading around these positions by capturing arbitrage and blending opportunities in the market.
Establishing discretionary inventories is a part of that trading operation and trading contributed about $50 million to R&amp;M earnings in the first quarter.
So the working capital impacts that we see from these discretionary inventory builds will be used as a cash in some quarters and they'll be sources of cash in other quarters but they'll tend to balance out over time.
So we'll take a look -- a quick look at results from our other segments on the next slide.
Chemicals segment posted record earnings of $193 million in the quarter up $110 million from a year ago.
This increase being driven by higher margins and lower operating costs.
Midstream earnings of $73 million were essentially flat with last year and corporate costs of $300 million were essentially flat with last year as well.
So we'll move on to Slide 9 and look at cash flow for the quarter.
We generated $4 billion in cash from operations this quarter if you exclude the $2.1 billion increase in working capital.
We generated $1.8 billion in cash proceeds from dispositions.
These proceeds included about $1.2 billion from the sale of LUKOIL shares and $600 million from other asset dispositions.
With this cash we funded $3.1 billion of the capital program which was $2.9 billion in E&amp;P and around $200 million in R&amp;M.
As I mentioned earlier distributions to the shareholders were $2.6 billion for the quarter which included the repurchase of 21 million shares at a total cost of $1.64 billion and $940 million of dividends.
We resumed the share repurchase program in mid-February following the announcement of our dividend increase and our share repurchase program.
Debt reduction was around $400 million for the quarter.
And at the end of the quarter we had $6.2 billion in cash and $2.2 billion in short-term investments.
And we expect to use the majority of this cash to repurchase ConocoPhillips shares.
Now turning to the next slide we'll take a look at our capital structure.
On this slide we just give some history of our equity and our debt levels.
Not a lot of change this quarter compared to the end of 2010.
Current debt balance was $23.2 billion; debt to cap ratio right around 25%.
As we said previously we're happy with where our debt balance is and we'll see it drift down a little bit over time as we have debt issues mature.
We had $400 million of debt mature in the first quarter and we'll see about another $500 million of debt reduction for the balance of the year.
So we don't see any to substantially reduce the debt balances from where they are today.
The debt is long term it's low cost and we have a pretax average cost of this debt of around 5.5%.
So we'll move to the next slide and talk some about some capital efficiency metrics.
ROCE and cash returns here that we're showing now exclude the impact of LUKOIL to our current and our prior periods.
So both our ROCE and cash returns improved in the first quarter driven by growth in earnings and cash flow.
Capital employed was basically flat for the quarter and we had a slight increase due to some foreign currency adjustments.
Upstream ROCE for the quarter was 15% compared to 12% in 2010.
Downstream ROCE annualized for the quarter was 8% which is compared to 5% in 2010.
So this completes the review of our first quarter results and I'll wrap up with some forward-looking comments before we open the line up for questions.
I'll start with some guidance on our downstream business.
We expect 2011 turnaround activity to be similar to what we had in 2010 so pretax expenses of around $400 million to $450 million and this is going to be weighted toward the second half of the year.
We expect 2011 global refining capacity utilization rate to be around 90%.
And our total refining capacity now is 2.4 million barrels per day that's down 2.7 million barrels per day last year due to the shutting down of the Wilhelmshaven refinery.
At our Wood River refinery we still expect the new units related to the core project to be up and running in the fourth quarter of this year.
As we pointed out at the analyst presentation we expect that this project will increase heavy crude capability by about 130 000 barrels per day improve our clean product yield by 5% and increase our realized margins by about $4 a barrel.
So moving to E&amp;P.
We've given guidance that we expect 2011 production to be about 1.7 million BOE per day before the impacts related to Libya production or any other additional asset dispositions.
Typically our second quarter and our third quarter production levels are lower than our first and our fourth quarter due to increased maintenance in the North Sea and lower production out of Alaska.
The events in Libya negatively impacted our production in the first quarter and will continue to do so at a rate of 45 000 to 50 000 barrels per day.
But the earnings and cash flow impact associated with that are around $25 million to $30 million per quarter.
Our OECD focused portfolio is less sensitive to PSC impacts.
A $10 per barrel increase in our oil price impacts production by about 1 000 to 3 000 barrels per day due to the PSC impacts.
So last month the U.K.
proposed a tax legislation which if it's enacted in the third quarter of this year as they've talked about it's going to -- which will significantly increase the tax liability to our U.K.
upstream operations.
When this law is enacted we would expect that we're going to record about $100 million noncash charge to earnings due to the re-measurement of deferred tax liability.
They also announced a second tax proposal related to the taxes -- tax rates applicable to decommissioning costs.
And if that's enacted that will result in an additional noncash charge in 2012 from remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities.
And we're currently evaluating the potential impact of that legislation to our operations.
So moving to exploration.
In the North Sea we had 2 wildcat wells planned to test the Deep Triassic prospects.
We sped the Peking Duck wildcat in late March and expect to reach target depth late in the second quarter.
And we expect to spud the Pelican wildcat in 2012.
Also in the North Sea we acquired 2 Norwegian blocks in the Barents Sea during the first quarter.
In the Caspian the results of the Rak More discovery are still being analyzed and we expect to spud in the Nursultan well later this year or early next year.
In Poland we expect that the third well in May to further delineate our opportunities in this area.
This is the first horizontal delineation well and it follows 2 vertical wells in 2010 which tested the play concept.
We continue to pursue high-quality unconventional opportunities in North America.
In this quarter we added 33 000 acres in the emerging Wolfcamp shale play in the Midland Basin.
We remain encouraged by what we're seeing from results at Eagle Ford.
Early production performance from the wells was better than what we expected.
Initial rates are strong and the production is not declining as fast as we initially premised.
We expect to have 14 rigs operating in this play during the majority of this year.
And production from Eagle Ford in the first quarter was 71% liquids.
We're also active in the liquids-rich areas of Bakken North Barnett and Permian with 10 rigs operating in those areas.
We expect to take that up to 12 rigs during this year.
And in addition we are participating in around a dozen nonoperated rigs in these areas.
In all of the Lower 48 our plans are to have twice as many rigs running by year end than we have running in the first quarter of last year.
So shifting to Australia.
APLNG executed a binding sales and purchase agreement with Sinopec for the supply of 4.3 million tons per annum of LNG for 20 years.
And as part of this agreement Sinopec is going to become a 15% equity owner in APLNG.
And we are still targeting a midyear final investment decision at which point we anticipate that we'll recognize around a $250 million loss related to our dilution of our interest in APLNG.
And we still are in very active discussions with potential offtakers for the second train volumes.
This was the first full quarter of operations for our QG3 projects.
The project in general ramped up faster than we expected and we're very pleased with the performance of this project.
Our 50-50 joint venture Chevron Phillips Chemical announced that it's advancing a feasibility study to construct a world-scale ethane cracker in one of its facilities along the Gulf Coast.
As we discussed in our analyst presentation last month we continued to advance our asset disposition program and we expect to generate $5 billion to $10 billion of proceeds from asset sales in 2011 and 2012.
We had given guidance previously that we expect these sales impact production by 50 000 to 100 000 BOE per day and take refining capacity down from 2.4 million to 1.9 million barrels per day.
So on the share repurchase side so far this year through yesterday we've repurchased 32 million shares at a total cost of $2.5 billion.
And we still expect to spend somewhere between $5 billion and $10 billion on share repurchase in 2011.
So that concludes our prepared remarks and we'll now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Kate Minyard from JPMorgan.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First of all on APLNG what are the milestones that we're looking for in terms of gas sales agreements that would enable you to reach an FID? And is there any level of gas price risk that ConocoPhillips would be willing to assume in order to advance the project to that stage? So we've got one train sold now to Sinopec and we're actively marketing the second train.
As we go through the next few months we'll be having discussions with our partner about exactly what type of final investment decisions we'll take whether we take a one-train FID or 2-train FID or one train with building infrastructure for the second.
Those are all things we'll be in discussion with our partner over the next few months as we continue to market the second train.
We can't really say today exactly what type of FID we will take.
We're very optimistic about our ability to sell the second train though.
The market continues to have a good strong demand for LNG both in the nearer term and the longer term.
As far as whether ConocoPhillips would take a significant gas price risk to market the trains up we don't view that that's necessary that there's a  good strong market out there for sales of LNG from the project.
Okay great.
And then just quickly on CapEx in Lower 48 at current oil prices just curious as to whether you'd be looking to increase spending in the Lower 48.
And if so when might we see a production volume response from that? And I'll go ahead and leave it there.
Yes.
So at the analyst presentation we talked quite a bit about our plans for the Lower 48 and there's nothing new from what we said about a month ago on Lower 48 capital.
So we're continuing to evaluate the resource plays that we have there for potential and incremental investment opportunities.
So it is a potential that we could do incremental CapEx.
We haven't made any decision to do that yet.
But the production guidance that we gave at the analyst presentation as far as the rate of increase from the shale plays is about the same as what we had said before.
We ultimately think we're going to get that up to around 100 000 barrels a day coming out of the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Barnett.
And we think by the end of this year we're going to be up -- what was that? Do you remember the number there Clayton? We'll be probably up to 40 000 or 50 000 by the end of this year.
That's right.
Yes I think the guidance we've given on Eagle Ford Bakken and North Barnett is around 50 000 barrels a day by year end.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson from ISI.
Jeff the quality of your E&amp;P portfolio's improved considerably over the last several years with the success you've had over the development side and the divestitures the plan is underway.
And while your costs and on-schedule performance has been pretty good in the past it looks likely that it's going to be a little bit challenged in the future given the number of projects that you have in Asia specifically in China Malaysia and APLNG.
It's a pretty long list.
And that's true especially with competitor investment in the region rising.
So my question is is how is the company preparing to manage this size while ensuring that you guys sustain this positive project delivery record and the returns that you expect in that area? Yes so I think the challenges we have or what you outlined is we're operating in the areas where there's significant other activity.
So we're being very aggressive about how we're managing developments.
In Queensland for example they're working now with our EPC contractor to make sure that we don't run into difficulties there as we execute those projects.
In our heavy oil developments in Canada the same kind of thing we know that that's a multiyear development and we really work to schedule those things out to where that gets done.
If you look at our resource plays in North America like how we're developing Eagle Ford we've made sure we had the rig commitment and the completion commitments in place early as we develop those programs.
So yes we've got a lot of things going on in terms of developing our portfolio and there's always schedule risk.
But part of what -- we recognize that going into these projects and we're putting a lot of effort into managing that schedule and cost risks up front.
Okay.
And also in E&amp;P ConocoPhillips took an almost $5 billion noncash impairment in 2007 related to the position in Venezuela which over the past few years has progressed in legal system in the ICSID.
And so on this point I want to see if we could get an update on the status the next steps and the possible timeline which I know may be difficult on that situation.
Yes sure it is difficult to predict the timelines.
But as we've talked about before we have filed -- we're working through the arbitration process through the international courts.
But we've had our arbitration hearings.
We expect to get a ruling on jurisdiction and the parameters on which values would be calculated later on in this year and then values as far as the damage calculations subsequent to that.
But there's also appeals processes that can be used even after these rulings are achieved.
So we're probably still several years away from having a judgment that we can collect on.
Our next question comes from Jacques Rousseau from RBC.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the slide you had talking about upstream production volumes.
And specifically I was curious of the field decline bar of 187 000 BOE per day.
How much of that is oil versus gas? I don't have that right off the top of my head.
It's a little bit more weighted.
If you look at our portfolio overall it's particularly related to North America.
The shift is away from natural gas so the decline in natural gases in North America is more than the decline in liquids.
I think we just have to get back to you on a more precise split of how that declined.
But it's a little bit more gas weighted than oil weighted.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And one other question if I could.
Regarding Alaska I know there's been a lot of discussion about potentially changing some of the tax laws there and it looks like it may get pushed off into next year.
And I just wanted to get your views on that.
Yes I mean Alaska has got a very progressive tax regime now and a very -- and it's getting to be a relatively high cost from a high tax cost area for us.
But we think that there would be opportunity for increased investment in Alaska that is adversely impacted by the tax regime up there.
So we'll continue to work with the relevant people in the government there to try to influence things.
We're hopeful but it's hard.
We don't know what -- it's hard to speculate on what the impact might be.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
You reiterated your disposal guidance the $5 billion to $10 billion.
I was wondering firstly what the near-term potential news flow would be out of that program.
Secondly whether the issues in North Africa have potentially derailed some of the potential disposals.
And thirdly any news that you might have on refining restructuring would be gratefully received.
Yes as we've talked about at the analyst presentation as opposed to what we did in 2010 where we were fairly specific about guidance on asset sales we're taking the approach of -- we have several things we're pursuing but we're not likely to give a lot of guidance about them until transactions are at an announcement point.
So I don't think there's really much more we're going to say other than what we've said so far regarding asset sales.
We continue -- we've mentioned before that we're continuing to work the Wilhelmshaven refinery asset sales process.
We've got other things we're investigating and working on the downstream side but it's too early to try to comment on those specifically.
And as far as the events in North Africa there's not much -- there's not really a comment that we can make there on the impact of that on our asset sales program either.
On the pace of the buyback it was a little bit slower than we expected.
Can we anticipate that to accelerate for the rest of the year? So with the buyback we spent $1.6 billion basically in first quarter that was starting in mid-February after we were out with our dividend and share repurchase announcement.
As we talked about a little bit earlier we spent basically another $900 million in April.
So that would give you kind of an idea of the pace we've been going at so far this year and we'll continue to evaluate that as we go through the year.
Yes.
So it would be an appropriate run rate then? Yes.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
A couple of I guess a little more granular things from me.
Your depreciation in the upstream fell about $140 million sequentially and I'm guessing some of that related to the unplanned downtime.
But can you guys give us an idea of what's going on there in terms of how we should think about the run rate on a go-forward basis for I guess both for upstream and group for DD&amp;A? And I have a follow-up please.
Yes.
So for DD&amp;A what we guided at the analyst presentation of about $8 billion for 2011 is still what we would say for guidance.
That is lower than DD&amp;A levels in last year.
Part of that is due to lower volumes.
Also part of it is due to a shift in where our production comes from in that we're having increased production from equity affiliates where the DD&amp;A number is essentially part of the equity earnings number not separate as a DD&amp;A number.
So that is also a significant part of the chain.
So guidance is $8 billion for DD&amp;A $7 billion upstream $1 billion or so downstream.
Got it.
And you kind of read my mind there because my follow-up is really on equity affiliates.
Obviously you don't breakout the earnings there but is Qatar included in there? And can you just maybe just give us an update on how Qatar is performing because obviously that's been a big part of your incremental production this year and again is expected this year.
Yes Qatar is in there.
And it's performed as we've mentioned earlier it's performed quite well.
It ramped up faster than we anticipated and production has been fairly steady there.
So that's been -- the news has been good coming out of Qatar in the QG3 project.
What are the volumes Jeff? The volumes are about 80 000 BOE a day.
That's net.
Our share net.
Yes our share was 80 000 BOE per day right.
No I'm just saying just in equity affiliates in general what -- the big things that go into that of course our midstream and our chemicals joint venture.
Our 2 joint ventures with Cenovus on the upstream the FCCL joint venture on the upstream and the WRB joint venture on the downstream and APLNG as well as Qatar project.
And a little bit of Russia.
And a little bit in -- in NMNG joint venture in Russia.
Okay that's terrific.
And then last one I have if I may is the asset sales on the dollar side I think the guidance is pretty clear there.
But could you give us just a kind of run rate to date as to what you've completed in terms of volumes in the upstream and what you still have set to do? And I'll leave it there.
Yes.
So the only thing we did in the -- that was closed in the first quarter was a relatively small transaction of some Lower 48 nonoperated assets.
It was around $300 million to $400 million.
The volumes associated with that are relatively small in the 2 000 to 3 000 barrels a day.
Okay.
So what have you got left to do Jeff? Pardon me? What's left to do...
What have you got left to do? Well we've got left to do the rest of the assets sales program we've talked about the whole $5 billion to $10 billion.
And kind of like the earlier question we'll comment more on those things as they occur as opposed to identifying specific assets that will be part of this program.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
I had a question for you on the refining downtime in the first quarter.
The release seems to suggest there was a bit of unplanned downtime.
And I was hoping you could kind of address specifically the regions that's coming from and if that's been corrected heading into 2Q.
Yes it's really -- it's at different places but predominantly it was at our Borger refinery and at our Sweeny refinery.
So part of the Mid-Continent region and part of it out of the Gulf Coast region.
Both of those were incidents that occurred which caused us to take facility -- portions of the refinery down for a period of time.
And those things are both things that had been corrected.
We have unplanned downtime every quarter.
The first quarter was a little bit higher than what we would normally expect from unplanned downtime and we put a number on that of around $50 million impact to R&amp;M for the quarter.
And then the second question for you was on your Permian acreage the 1 million acreage you have there.
Have you guys identified the amount of unconventional opportunity whether it'd be Avalon or Bone Spring shale? We are working in those areas actively but we haven't fully identified.
No we haven't fully identified that yet.
Our next question comes from Lakiesha Bonnie [ph] from Crédit Suisse.
It's Ed Westlake here.
Just On the Eagle Ford and the Bakken volumes can you just talk through how much of that volume already has a pipeline or a rail evacuation route already signed by Conoco in terms of your targets? So our current production is around a little over 20 000 barrels a day.
We have about 5 000 barrels a day wasn't it Clayton? That's curtailed as we're working through evacuation.
We have plans in place to cater for the full Eagle Ford production which we expect will be up at the 65 000 70 000 barrels a day by -- you'll see in a couple of years.
So as we go through these next few time periods there'll be periods where we're a little bit behind on the infrastructure but we're confident that by the time we get to 2013 and the volumes we think we're going to have there that we'll have infrastructure to take that volume away.
And then in the short term that's more rail and then as pipelines evolve or? It's both truck and I think it's everything.
And I think it's -- I don't know if we're using rail there I think it's primarily truck and pipe.
And then just on the follow-on obviously we have announcement yesterday from another refining -- sorry pipeline coming from Cushing to Gulf.
What are your thoughts on as a big Mid-Con refiner as well as the Gulf Coast that the Keystone and the other PBT pipeline will be onstream by 2013? And what are the challenges they face? Well of course Keystone XL faces the continuing permitting challenge to get that done.
We anticipate that that will occur and that the pipeline will be constructed in the next year and a half or so.
We get the question a lot about whether we should be reversing our Seaway products -- Seaway pipeline which runs from the Gulf Coast to Cushing.
That's something we'll continue to evaluate but there is a solution plan now between Keystone XL and the questions whether there'll be incremental capacity required beyond that.
And we along with a lot of people are studying that question.
Right.
And then my final question on the downstream.
You've got better refining margins in Q2.
You'll have your refineries hopefully back up onstream from the unplanned downtime.
That's good.
But what sort of negative impact are you seeing at this point from sort of prices impacting demand and on the retail side? That's a good question.
We don't have as good a window into that as other companies do.
But since we don't operate a retail marketing system we're a wholesaler for our refined products.
So we don't have any difficulty moving all the refined products that we can produce out of our refineries at market prices.
So we haven't seen any evidence of decreased demand so I'm not sure that we would be the one to really see that since we don't operate a retail network.
For us I guess it would show up in the gasoline margins that we experienced at the refineries.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citi.
On the refining side if I'm looking at the domestic earnings if you could give us a little bit color on the mix of those earnings.
Did most of that come from the Gulf Coast Mid-Continent and was the Northeast profitable this quarter? Yes the strongest areas were the Mid-Con refining with the situation with WTI being what it is.
East Coast refining was still relatively challenged.
West Coast refining margins and Gulf Coast refining margins were actually stronger as well in the first quarter.
So the strength in the Midwest more strength than we've seen recently in the West Coast and the East Coast was still a more difficult market.
Will you say greater than 50% of your profits came from Mid-Continent/Gulf Coast Area? Well between -- probably so.
I'd say that's a fair comment yes.
Got you.
And then just looking at your bitumen price realization sequentially quarter to -- fourth quarter to first quarter it looks like they were relatively flat for the consolidated company even though I think the market prices were higher.
If you could just kind of help us understand what's going on there? Or how are you getting your guys' bitumen to market? Or how are those realizations kind of being impacted by what's going on today? So I think we saw a widening of the differential between bitumen prices and crude oil prices during the quarter which was part of what benefits refining as well.
There's no change into how we get our crude -- our bitumen to the market.
There's no -- we're not constrained by any infrastructure constraints in moving that product to market.
So it's just the shift in differentials which caused -- which is the primary cause for the relatively flat bitumen prices compared to the increased crude oil prices.
So you have no issues getting your product to market? No.
Yes that's correct.
And then on Qatargas the LNG volumes which way were those volumes flowing during the quarter? We don't -- go into provide detail on exact destinations of where our Qatari volumes have been flowing.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Jeff or Clayton on the Seaway your ownership the 50% if your partner want to use the right of way to construct another set of pipeline to move from say Cushing down to the Gulf Coast do you guys have the veto power to veto that or the right to veto that if you want to or that's not part of your agreement? I don't know the details of that Paul.
I'd be surprised if they could since the right of way that was owned by the company and we have the ability to influence decisions of the company which owns the right of way.
But I don't know the answer to that.
Clayton is it possible that there's something you can share you can check and get back to me? I think it's a question if there's a commercial aspect of it or there's negotiation that we're in the middle of we probably don't want to disclose it.
But if it's public out there or it's part of some pipeline agreement that's in the public domain I'd be happy to.
Okay.
In your presentation you indicate that the underlying field decline from the first quarter last year to the first quarter this year is 187 000 barrels per day or about -- maybe over 10% year-over-year.
Is that a reasonable base operation the kind of run rate that we should assume? Or there's a number of one-off incident that make that number higher than that we should use? No.
I think that's similar to what we've talked about.
So that number is just the unmitigated decline rate.
So it's similar to what you heard Ryan Lance and Greg Garland talking about at the analyst presentation in March that's kind of 10% 11% of our production rate.
And then you could do things within those existing fields to bring that decline rate to more like 5% and then you can -- with new projects you can arrest the rest of that decline and have production growth.
That would be the number before maintenance and exploitation capital.
So this is before maintenance and exploitation? Yes this is just unmitigated decline.
Right.
And so what is the increase in production -- the partial offset in your presentation is that included in your new project at the other column? You showed 187 000 that including both the new project as well as the benefit from the maintenance work? Well from exploitation work is what I think -- doing things within existing fields to capture additional production is included in the projects performance and other on the production chart.
Okay.
Jeff I was looking at in your cash flow statement you say the working capital is a use of cash of $2.1 billion.
I thought in a rising oil price environment because you have a longer grace period for the crude purchase and your accounts receivable the grace period that you gave to your customer we should see working capital be a source of fund instead of a use of fund.
Am I missing something here? Yes.
So there's lots of different impacts that are happening with working capital that are price driven that will balance out over time as prices as things catch up.
So what we wanted to point out in the first quarter though is that the consciously chose to increase our inventory levels to facilitate some capturing of some margins in the marketplace that our commercial trading group had opportunities to do.
And that was a big driver of the working capital change in the first quarter.
And that's something that we could reverse if we chose to.
And typically we do allow our inventories to go up and down during the course of the year so you'll see that that will reverse over time.
And you can look at previous years and you'll see a similar kind of pattern where we'll have usually inventory -- working capital negatives early in the year working capital positives later in the year.
Yes.
Another source of variance on the working capital can also be taxes payable.
A couple of times a year we'll make a big tax payment and so that number will be -- tax payable will obviously be a source of funds.
And there's some variation that comes from that as well in the high price environment.
But the big move quarter was obviously inventory.
Okay.
So this quarter's inventory is not the tax even though it could be a fluctuation factors in the future? That would be hundreds of millions of dollars.
It wouldn't be at the magnitude that you're seeing this quarter.
Okay.
Jeff any insight that you can share with us on the Ekofisk redevelopment effort? Where we are in the process? What kind of estimate development costs on the actual as well as on the per barrel basis of the incremental reserve that you would be able to recover and what kind of production impact? We've got nothing incremental to what we shared at the analyst presentation just about a month ago.
We do anticipate that sanction on the Ekofisk -- South Development Ekofisk 2 -- Eldfisk 2 will be among the major projects that we sanction this year.
They've got attractive both F&amp;D and rates of return.
And it's going to -- that over time that those are projects which will cause us to move from having a declining production.
Well first they arrest near-term decline in Norway and ultimately we'll get Norway production to where it turns around and see some slight increases.
Yes I don't think -- where we said the $1.5 billion in capital in 2011 for North Sea.
So sanctions this year and then capital will ramp up in subsequent years.
Right.
Clayton any kind of number that you can share? On total capital? On the Ecofisk.
Yes.
I think we want to wait until we get to actually deciding what we're going to do on those projects.
And let us sanction the projects first and then come up with a total project capital number for you.
Okay and final question.
There's some rumor on the industry newsletter that the Bohai Bay the performance has not been up to their expectation and has been a little bit challenging.
I'm wondering any comment you can give? There had been one particular platform in Bohai Bay which has been a challenge but that's been that way for several quarters now and that's reflected in the production numbers as you've seen from Bohai.
What was the Bohai current production? 60? I'd have to look at probably in our supplemental information.
I would say it's around 50 or 60.
50 to 60 net to you right? So internationally actually out of China it was 77 in the first quarter.
Right.
But that's more than just Bohai or not? It's mostly -- well yes it's Bohai and Panyu as well.
Bohai's I don't know what off the top of my head would Bohai is.
We can probably get back...
90% of it.
It's most of that number.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions about Australia.
You're still trying to sell the second train.
I wonder if as part of this negotiation you're also going to sell a similar amount of equity in the development after you sold to Sinopec.
So could we see potentially being diluted down to below 40% in this development? That's the first question.
Maybe I'll hold onto the second one.
Okay.
Yes we're continuing to sell the second train.
The buyers we're talking to who are likely buyers in the second train will probably want perhaps some equity position.
Some of the buyers we're talking do not want equity some want a small equity position.
It would be unlikely that it would be an equity position of the size that Sinopec came into.
So it would be unlikely we would dilute substantially from where we are today.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And second question is your partner Origin seems reluctant to confirm your costs for the overall development.
Do you have a kind of a harder total development costs going forward from here for the LNG trains in the upstream development? Yes.
I think you're going to get the same answer from us that you're going to get from Origin that we're working through that as part of our decision on getting towards the final investment decision in the mid part of this year.
And that we'll be able to give you more information on that once we've gotten to that point.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I'll just try a last quick one.
Any update on the potential development of Poseidon and some drilling program in the Browse Basin which I think you're starting around now? No there's not really an update there.
We're still working through in getting the permitting process done there.
I think as Larry talked about we were planning I think it's 4 appraisal wells around Poseidon and other discoveries in Browse.
I think the permitting is taking longer than we had hoped so I don't have a new time to give you right now on when we start the appraisal drilling around the discovery.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But those wells are actually being -- are appraising Poseidon rather than exploration wells on other the separate prospect? That's correct.
These are appraisal wells.
Our next question comes from Mark Gilman from Benchmark.
LLC</strong> I had to add couple of things.
Just wanted to go back to that decline rate issue for a sec.
Jeff I thought you mentioned China both as the source of incremental production as well as the contributor to the decline.
Can you clarify that for me? So we have a decline from existing production in Panyu and Xijiang -- or Panyu.
And then the way we bucket these things is so we have different -- we have wells and platforms in Bohai which may be in decline and things -- and new things we're bringing on in Bohai as well.
So yes I did mention it in both buckets.
LLC</strong> So Bohai itself all in is in both buckets? Right.
But you could see overall production levels from China from the details that we give you in the international E&amp;P page in the supplemental.
LLC</strong> Well when you talk about -- this is just a point of clarification.
When you talk about declines at something like Bohai that's x price-related entitlement effects I assume? We don't have large price-related entitlement effects.
LLC</strong> But you do with Bohai? We have some but not -- but that is included in our decline numbers.
So the PSC impact would be included in the numbers.
LLC</strong> So in an environment like this it's being overstated Clayton right? Well I don't -- it's just the sort -- I guess whether or not it's a decline as a result of the terms or a decline as a result of I guess the field life we don't differentiate those 2 things in this graph that's right.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Jeff regarding this trading-oriented inventory build were there any LIFO inventory effects associated with it in your booked downstream earnings other than the $50 million in trading gains? Not substantial in this quarter.
We can have -- as we talked about in previous quarters the exactly how physical inventory gets marked compared to how paper positions that are hedging trading positions around that inventory get marked there can be some noise around that from quarter-to-quarter.
This quarter it was not -- there were not a significant number there related to inventory impacts.
LLC</strong> Are those barrels in a separate pool? You mean outside of R&amp;M? LLC</strong> Well there is sort of separate pool within R&amp;M Clayton what you're doing in terms of trading activity? We can probably take that discussion off-line as far as the complexities around inventory accounting.
Are you talking about like a different layer? LLC</strong> Well not necessarily different layer Clayton.
I'll take it off-line.
Okay.
Last one for me I just want to try to clarify some of the unconventional liquids production numbers.
Jeff or Clayton I think a few moments ago you've referenced a 20 000 a day current number.
Is that just Eagle Ford or is that all of the 3 unconventional liquids-rich plays? That's just Eagle Ford.
LLC</strong> How many wells is producing currently? Out of Eagle Ford I don't have that number.
Probably north of 50.
LLC</strong> 50 net wells? At least.
LLC</strong> Okay.
If we include the other plays the Bakken as well as the North Barnett the current level of production would be roughly what? 50.
I think we do about -- I think we do I don't know somewhere between 15 and 20 out of the Bakken and probably between 10 and 15 out of North Barnett.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And remind me of the year-end objective? Where do we want to be around? 70 65 to 70.
Right.
65.
You're talking about those three fields? LLC</strong> Yes those plays.
Yes.
That's what we're talking about.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Following up on Mark's shale question.
What was sequential growth fourth quarter to first quarter for the shale plays volume-wise? Well most of the growth came out of Eagle Ford.
I would say it's probably between 5 000 and 10 000 barrels a day.
Any change with Kenai in terms of the shutdown? In terms of shutdown in Kenai I don't think -- I think there was additional cargo sold but I don't think our -- I think the issue is availability of gas.
We would -- obviously there'd be a market for that gas if we can produce it.
But with the decline in the Cook Inlet area as Clayton says it's mostly an issue with gas availability and that compared to domestic demand in the Cook Inlet in the Anchorage area.
So I don't really see any plans to prolong Kenai.
I mean if we do prolong it it's just for a short period of time.
Okay.
That's fine.
Last one for me.
Regarding the trading that you're doing on the refining how much of the capital commitment is it? So it is all capital that we can choose to deploy or not deploy in that business.
So the inventory positions that we have are -- can be taken out.
So it's not a long-term capital commitment in that business.
I was just trying to figure out how much you're swinging that's all.
So the swing in the first quarter was $2 billion in the downstream part of our business.
And that's a mix of inventories payables receivables all those kinds of working capital impacts.
That's a fairly large swing for a particular quarter.
If you look historically we've probably been more to the $1 billion and $1.5 billion swings in working capital in a quarter.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Just two quick ones.
One on Libya I realize visibility there is pretty negligible.
But do you have a sense of just the physical state of your assets in terms of damage et cetera? No we do not.
We don't have a good -- we don't know production levels physical state of the assets.
Really we don't have a good information coming out of Libya.
Our employees were -- we got our employees out what mid -- was it mid-February? Yes.
We really don't know.
Before everything happened there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I completely understood.
And then if I can get a quick update on your program in Poland.
Not much more to say than what we've talked about as we are going through the presentation.
We've drilled a couple of wells there vertical wells.
We're moving now to drill a horizontal well and we'll continue to just evaluate that program as we move forward.
Not a lot more we can say about it at this time.
Our next question comes from Hernan Ladeuix from CLSA I have a question on the international refining side.
We saw some realized margins went down quite sharply quarter-on-quarter when market indicators have not.
What would be the main reason for that? So you're asking why international -- well I'm not sure...
So maybe in which segment again? International refining basically margins went down 50%.
So our international refining if you think about it it is fairly limited.
It's the Humber refinery in the U.K.
the Melaka refinery in Malaysia and then we have a joint venture refinery in Germany.
Humber did well.
But I'm not sure market indicators -- you're saying market indicators were higher in European? Yes.
It went up.
Singapore went up.
Europe a little bit up.
But your realized margins went down by 30% or more.
I don't have a good answer on that.
Yes we'd have to get back to you on that one.
I expect it has to do primarily with changes in co-product pricing which are not part of the market indicators.
That was our final question.
Okay.
Well thanks everybody for listening.
Appreciate your interest.
These comments and transcript we posted on our website along with the presentation material.
Thank you again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Clayton Reasor Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Reasor you may begin.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning and welcome to ConocoPhillips Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
I'm joined today by Jeff Sheets Senior Vice President of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer.
As we normally do we'll provide a summary of our key financial and operating results for the second quarter as well as an outlook for the remainder of 2011.
We'll also provide you with a brief update on the repositioning of ConocoPhillips as 2 separate leading energy companies as we announced 2 weeks ago.
You can find our presentation material in the Investor Relations section of the ConocoPhillips website.
Before we get started I'd like to take a look at the Safe Harbor statement that we've shown on the next slide.
It's a reminder that we will be making forward-looking statements during the presentation and during the question-and-answer session.
Actual results may differ materially from what we present today and factors that could cause actual results to differ are included in this slide as well as in our filings with the SEC.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff Sheets who will take you through our prepared remarks and presentation.
Jeff? Thanks Clayton.
I'll start on Slide 2 which highlights some of our second quarter results.
During the second quarter we had adjusted earnings of $3.4 billion.
That's $2.41 a share.
That compares to adjusted earnings of $1.63 a share in the second quarter of 2010.
During the quarter we generated cash from operations of $4.44 per share.
This was a good quarter for the company.
We ran well both in E&amp;P and R&amp;M.
Second quarter production was 1.64 million BOE per day.
Our global refining utilization was 91% during the quarter.
We generated $6.3 billion in cash from operations.
Our annualized return on capital employed was 15% for the quarter and our cash return on capital employed was 24%.
Also during the quarter we distributed $4 billion in cash to our shareholders in the form of shareholder distributions -- share repurchases and dividends.
Our repurchase of 42 million shares this quarter represented about 3% of our shares outstanding.
In our earnings release this morning we highlighted that in addition to creating value for our shareholders at ConocoPhillips activities also contribute substantially to job creation and economic growth.
Slide 3 recaps some of the numbers associated with our activities for the first half of the year.
During the first half of 2011 the company spent $6.5 billion on operating expenses which supported 30 000 jobs at ConocoPhillips as well as jobs at our suppliers and contractors.
A further $6.1 billion was invested in capital projects which help to create new energy supplies and also fuel additional job creation.
$7.7 billion was paid to local state and federal governments in the form of income production and severance taxes.
And in addition ConocoPhillips distributed $6.6 billion to a wide shareholder base which includes numerous state and local pensions and investment funds which benefit millions of individual U.S.
investors and retirees.
So let's turn to Slide 4 to discuss some of the details of our performance for the quarter.
Our total company adjusted earnings were $3.4 billion.
That's up about $950 million compared to the second quarter last year.
Our E&amp;P segment was improved over a $1 billion due to higher prices which were offset by higher taxes.
R&amp;M adjusted earnings were basically unchanged from a year ago.
In the second quarter of 2010 our earnings included $430 million related to our ownership interest in LUKOIL.
And since we have now sold our interest in LUKOIL we don't have similar earnings as part of our second quarter 2011 results.
Our other segments adjusted earnings improved by $290 million as a result of lower corporate expenses higher and then higher chemicals and mid-stream earnings.
So next we'll look at more in detail our segment earnings starting with production in our Upstream business which is highlighted on Slide 5.
The second quarter production was 1.64 million BOE per day.
That's down 5% or 93 000 BOE per day from the second quarter of last year.
The decline from the second quarter last year was a result of asset dispositions and the loss of our production from Libya.
Asset dispositions negatively impacted production by around 62 000 BOE per day.
This primarily reflects dispositions in Canada and the Lower 48.
Of that 62 000 BOE per day 16 000 BOE per day was North America natural gas.
So if you exclude the impact of our asset dispositions and the loss of production from Libya our second quarter 2010 production would have been 1.623 million BOE per day.
In the second quarter of 2011 we produced 1.64 million BOE per day.
And the changes there include a decline of 28 000 BOE per day in our North America natural gas production which was offset by an increase a net increase of 45 000 BOE per day of liquids production and International gas production.
So stepping back and looking at all the changes from 2010 to 2011 second quarter numbers you can see that the declines in production that we've had are primarily attributed to declines in North America natural gas production and a loss of our production in Libya which are both relatively lower margin portions of our portfolio.
Looking at our production on a per-share basis we see that our production has increased 4% from the second quarter of 2010 to the second quarter of 2011.
So now I'll turn to E&amp;P earnings on Slide 6.
E&amp;P adjusted earnings for the quarter were $2.6 billion.
That's up $1 billion from the same quarter a year ago.
This increase is largely driven by higher prices offset by higher taxes and to a smaller extent by lower sales volume.
So even though production was down 93 000 barrels per day the impact of those reduced volumes was only about $100 million.
Now as we just discussed the volume reductions in the quarter compared to the quarter a year ago were primarily from lower margin barrels.
In the cost and other category this was a help relative to -- this quarter relative to the second quarter last year.
This was driven by lower DD&amp;A partially offset by some increases in other taxes and operating expenses.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the results broken down between U.S.
and International.
You can see that we had improvements in both U.S.
and International adjusted earnings as well as increases in realized prices.
So I'll move on to Slide 7 and talk about some of our E&amp;P unit metrics.
Income per BOE improved to $17 a barrel from $9 a barrel a year ago and cash per BOE improved to $29 a BOE compared to $22 a year ago.
The majority of this improvement is attributed to stronger commodity prices.
However we are also starting to see the benefit of the shift in our production towards higher margin barrels.
So turning to R&amp;M earnings on Slide 8.
Our adjusted R&amp;M earnings improved by $20 million over the same quarter last year.
Margins and other market impacts increased earnings by $63 million which reflects a $205 million increase in U.S.
Refining margins offset by roughly $145 million decrease in International Refining margins.
International Refining margins decreased despite slightly increased market cracks due to inventory impacts and lower secondary product margins which are a result of higher crude prices.
In the second quarter we saw a decrease in R&amp;M earnings of around $20 million from lower volumes compared to the second quarter of last year.
This was driven primarily by lower domestic Refining volumes partially offset by higher International Refining volumes.
The lower domestic Refining volumes largely relate to unplanned downtime at the Sweeny and Bayway refineries as well as a turnaround and planned maintenance activities at the San Francisco and Los Angeles refineries.
Our Refining capacity utilization rate for the second quarter was 90% in the U.S.
and 96% internationally.
Compared to the second quarter last year we saw operating cost increased about $18 million but this was primarily driven by foreign exchange impacts.
Take a look at R&amp;M unit metrics on Slide 9.
The per barrel metrics for Refining and Marketing increased compared to the first quarter this year and are basically flat with where we were in the second quarter of last year.
So second quarter net income per barrel this year was $2.58 and the cash contribution is $3.32.
So we'll take a look at results from our other operating segments on Slide 10.
Our Chemicals segment posted another strong quarter with earnings of $199 million which is up from $138 million a year ago.
This increase is primarily due to higher ethylene and polyethylene margins as well as increased equity earnings from CPChem's interest and ventures in the Middle East.
Midstream earnings of $130 million were more than double the earnings we had from that segment a year ago and this is primarily related to higher natural gas liquids prices.
Corporate expenses of $203 million for this quarter compared to $367 million a year ago.
This improvement is primarily driven by foreign exchange impacts and lower interest expense.
So we'll move to Slide 11 and look at our cash flow from operations for the second quarter.
We generated $5.4 billion in cash from operations this quarter excluding a $900 million decrease in working capital which also benefited cash from operations.
In the first quarter we saw a working capital decrease of about $2 billion -- a working capital increase excuse me of about $2 billion.
The decrease this quarter is primarily related to reductions in inventory in our Downstream business.
These working capital numbers are going to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter but we expect these changes to average 0 over time.
We generated $160 million in cash proceeds from dispositions in the second quarter.
Dispositions during the quarter included some E&amp;P assets in Western Canada as well as some technology and transportation assets.
We funded a $3.1 billion capital program that was $2.8 billion in E&amp;P and $300 million in our R&amp;M business.
Our distributions to the shareholders this quarter amounted to $4 billion which included the repurchase of 42 million shares at a cost of $3.1 billion and $900 million paid out as dividends.
Share repurchases since we started our program in 2010 have totaled $8.7 billion which represents about 9% of our shares outstanding.
We ended the quarter with $5.5 billion in cash and $2.6 billion in short-term investments so $8.1 billion in total cash and short-term investments.
Turning to Slide 12.
We'll take a look at our capital structure.
Our capital employed is essentially flat with where it was at the end of 2010 with small increases in equity and small decreases in debt.
Our equity increased by about $1.5 billion.
The combination of income and some foreign exchange impacts were offset largely offset by share repurchases and dividends.
Our debt-to-total cap remains at 25% which is in line with our target.
In the second half of 2011 we expect to retire about $500 million of maturing debt.
So we'll move to the next slide and talk about our capital efficiency metrics.
Both our ROCE and cash returns improved in the second quarter driven by the growth in earnings and cash flow.
Our annualized ROCE for the second quarter was 15%.
If you look at the Upstream part of our business ROCE was 17% and Downstream was 13%.
That completes the review of the second quarter 2011 results.
I'll wrap up with some forward-looking comments before we open the line up to questions.
So let me start with updates in a few areas.
In R&amp;M we've had pretax turnaround expenses year-to-date of approximately $160 million and we expect full year expenses to be around $350 million.
And this is lower than the previous guidance of $450 million.
We expect global Refining capacity utilizations to be in the low 90s in the second half of 2011.
On the Upstream side of our business when we look at the production for the rest of the year we see the third quarter that we'll have increased maintenance and turnaround activities primarily in Alaska the U.K.
Middle East.
And then we expect fourth quarter production to increase to a level similar to what we've seen in the second quarter.
And overall for the year we would expect production to be somewhere between 1.625 million and 1.65 million BOE per day.
On July 19 2011 the U.K.
enacted legislation increasing income tax rate effective March 24 2011.
As a result we expect to recognize a third quarter expense of approximately $110 million in the E&amp;P segment related to the revaluation of deferred taxes and $80 million due to higher taxes from the March 24 period through the end of June.
On our guidance for DD&amp;A and corporate expenses we don't have any changes at this time.
In Bohai Bay in China we are working closely with the Chinese government in our co-venture Sinoc following the release of about 1 500 barrels of oil and oil-based drilling that occurred in June.
We reported this incident to the Chinese authority immediately after it occurred.
The cause is still under investigation and we currently have about 17 000 BOE per day net of shut-in production.
We expect the announcement of the final investment decision for the APLNG project soon.
With the achievement of FID and as we've announced previously the agreement with Sinopec to subscribe for a 15% equity interest in APLNG we expect to recognize an after-tax loss of about $275 million during the third quarter related to the dilution of our interest in that project.
So switching to North America.
We continue to pursue adding to our high-quality unconventional resource opportunities.
So far in 2011 we've added about 340 000 acres to our North American resource plays.
Activity levels in our Lower 48 liquids-rich shale plays continue to ramp up.
Our current production at Eagle Ford is about 24 000 BOE per day.
Well results there remain encouraging but we do have some production curtailments due to third-party condensates trucking constraints.
We are still -- we're getting about 75% liquids content at Eagle Ford.
We're operating 13 rigs in this -- we operated 13 rigs in this play during the second quarter and we expect to be up to 16 rigs there by year end.
We are also planning to increase activity significantly in the Bakken and North Barnett plays during 2012 and we would expect that our rig count in these areas to nearly double by the end of 2012.
Our second quarter production from these 2 areas was about 30 000 BOE per day.
So as we continue to develop our Lower 48 opportunities we continue to find opportunities from increased investments with strong economic returns.
This year we've already allocated an additional $500 million of our capital program to these activities.
And as we look forward -- and we're currently working through our plans for increased investment levels in 2012.
The key of executing the capital program in the Lower 48 is going to be our assessment of capacity and service providers drilling rigs and completion crews and our ability to bring production online as quickly as production is increased and that relates to the build out and access to infrastructure and takeaway capacity.
On some International items in Poland our third well has been successfully drilled and we've got a multi-stage frac over the horizontal section of that well.
It's going to begin in the third quarter and the fourth well is also expected to be spud in the third quarter.
In Australia the necessary permits have been received and we plan to move forward with the exploration and appraisal program in the Greater Poseidon area starting in late 2011 and that will continue on into 2012.
On the Downstream side the core project the Wood River is scheduled to be online in the fourth quarter.
We expect that this project will generate a mid-teens return and our current projects we would expect at current margins.
We would expect that this project would add $200 million to $300 million of net annual cash flow.
On our asset sales program we are in various stages of marketing several assets as part of this program.
Our plans to sell $5 billion to $10 billion of assets in 2011 and 2012 have not been impacted by our announcement of the repositioning and to separate the E&amp;P and Downstream companies.
These processes take time.
We're making progress and these processes will continue to include Downstream assets in our target to reduce refining capacity by 500 000 barrels per day remains in place.
We also continue to repurchase shares and we expect that we will do so at a rate similar to what we've done in the second quarter.
So I'll conclude with a few comments about our recent announcement which is Slide 15 in the presentation.
So on July 14 we announced our intent to create 2 leading independent energy companies by spinning off our Downstream business into a new publicly held company.
We believe that this was a compelling transformational event for our company and we're convinced that this is the right thing to do long term for shareholder value.
We see benefits of greater management focus greater focus on capital allocation less complexity in running these businesses going forward.
While we recognize that the external environment has changed and will continue to change and that both these companies will have the size and the scale to effectively compete in the environments going forward.
Our assets and ability to grow will be more transparent externally post this transition and we believe that the market will value this transparency.
We understand that there is uncertainty about the exact allocation of assets and where the joint ventures will be as well as what the capital structure will be for these companies and the management teams for these companies.
And we expect to -- and we plan to provide you additional information on these items in September of this year.
We also expect that we will be naming CEOs for both of these companies before the end of the year.
So that concludes the prepared remarks and we will open up the line for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
So just firstly on the Downstream spinoff it's been a few weeks.
Is there anything you can say in terms of the reaction of some your partners in some of the JVs that you've had CPC Chem (sic) [CPChem] Sinoc and DCP Midstream? No it's really too early for us to make any comments on that.
But those discussions have started.
And until we've concluded those discussions it would be premature for us to say anything.
Okay.
And just on the disposals I mean obviously you've done $1.9 billion so far this year out of the sort of $5 billion to $10 billion that you're looking for.
Can you talk in any detail about sort of how much you think you could get done in the second half of the year out of that sort of 18-month program? I think we'll just say that we're still on the $5 billion to $10 billion additional to the $7 billion we did in 2010 over 2011 and 2012.
We have a lot of -- as I mentioned earlier we have a lot of different transactions that we are working and then we would expect that we will be closing some additional transactions in 2011 and probably announcing some that will close in 2011.
And really that will close in 2012 later this year.
We would -- so I would just again reiterate the same $5 billion to $10 billion range that we've said for the 2011 2012 combined.
And then just on the final question on the Eagle Ford.
Obviously you're running into as you say a few production curtailments due to trucking.
Pipelines is probably the way forward to get that crude out there.
Can you just give us an update on when you will have your Eagle Ford production fully covered by pipeline export options? Well I think this is going to be a continually evolving aspect of this.
We'll have additional capacity built out and then we're also going to continue ramp-up production.
And maybe just a couple of comments on the Eagle Ford overall.
So in the second quarter we averaged 21 000 barrels a day out there.
We currently are producing around 24 000 barrels a day.
We probably could be producing a little over 30 if we had no production constraints out there at all.
So we'll have periods.
We're going to catch up and then we'll have periods where we will fall behind again.
But I would think as we move into 2012 and 2013 that we would expect to be out of the curtailment situation.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson from ISI.
Jeff I have a question about U.S.
E&amp;P.
Your results were obviously very strong there even with the penalty of the new tax regime in Alaska.
And on this point my question is really twofold.
One whether you have an idea of the earnings effect of the rise in Alaskan taxes year-over-year.
And two whether you have an updated deal on the likely outcome or any timing of adjustments that may materialize up there? Maybe we'll just kind of give you some numbers on Alaska production taxes.
If you look at how much we paid in the first quarter it was a little bit just under $500 million.
If you look at what we paid in the second quarter in production taxes it was just a little bit less than $800 million.
So a substantial part of the increase in prices of course in Alaska goes towards higher production taxes.
We don't anticipate any near-term movement on -- in the political front in Alaska.
Okay.
And then secondly your results in -- your returns in E&amp;P are clearly improving between the higher profitability from the tar oil sands and conventional maybe some other places as well.
And you do have new production over the next several years.
But on the divestiture plan I had -- I wanted to just ask whether or not the functional and geographical areas from which your sales are likely to unfold meaning have there been movement or some areas more likely to be sold others less.
And if so how is your program changed over the last couple of years Jeff if you think it has? The program really hasn't changed and we are in a situation where it's kind of the same situation we've been in since we -- even going back in the March Analyst presentation where we've outlined what our targets are.
But I've said that the nature of the things we're pursuing it's probably best from a commercial perspective if we talk about them once they're nearing -- complete or nearing completion.
So we're going to be probably not able to provide a lot of additional guidance on that.
The same kind of production impact guidance that we gave back in March that this could be 50 000 to 100 000 barrels a day of incremental production that we're selling.
It's still we think an appropriate way to look at it and it can be a mix of things from all across our portfolio.
I'm afraid I just -- with where we are in different aspects of this there's not a lot more that we feel is appropriate to say at this time.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
On CapEx I wonder just firstly can you just confirm your expectations for 2011 split between Upstream and Downstream? And I have a follow-up on that subject.
For 2011 we had a capital program of $13.5 billion which is basically $12 billion Upstream and $1.5 billion Downstream and other.
So it's kind of $1.2 billion in Downstream and 300 in other.
That's still pretty much where we are going forward for the rest of 2011.
And then you announced in your comments a significant step up in U.S.
activity.
I assume clearly that will require more CapEx into 2012.
Can you talk about -- maybe give us a bit more color on what you intend to spend on.
And secondly clearly how much more you would be expecting to spend in 2012? So we -- I mentioned in our early comments that we're going to allocate an incremental $500 million to developments in North America.
I think we would anticipate that's going to come just from adjustments that we make in the overall program a little bit slower spin perhaps on some projects than what we have initially anticipated to where the budget is going to end up in the same range is what we've talked about earlier this year.
We're taking a hard look now as what the 2012 level of expenditure is going to be in that area.
But we could see that we could be up another $1 billion next year as we -- kind of help you with -- the possible range from where we were this year as we look at the breadth of our opportunities.
Well I think we've said $14 billion to $15 billion in CapEx in 2012.
And I would say there's no reason to change that at this point.
Yes I mean I'm just wondering if it was kind of incremental beyond that.
I don't think so.
I think the capital that comes into Lower 48 was probably reallocated as Jeff said from other projects that may not be moving as quickly as we thought.
But that's something that as the rest of the year as this year goes on and we get a little firmer on our 2012 plans that we'll be able to provide more guidance on.
Right.
And then thinking about the split companies I assume that the CapEx levels we expect it to be in line with what they were in the combined company or am I wrong in that? And can you just talk a little bit more about the math that you have for growing the company as an Upstream stand-alone entity once you lose the free cash flow from the Downstream? Yes so I think as we look generally at the Upstream part of our business it is of course influenced by the level of commodity prices.
But we generally feel like as you look over time that it generates the cash necessary to fund the investment program and to fund the dividend that some years it may be a little bit generate more cash than CapEx plus dividends some of the year it may be a little bit less than that.
But both of these entities when we set up a capital structure for them we're going to create them with a lot of financial flexibility.
So they're both capable of handling fluctuations in commodity prices and continuing to invest capital through the cycle.
So we don't anticipate that that suggests any real change in our Upstream strategy.
And the Upstream strategy is still going to be about converting resources to reserves improving -- shifting the portfolio to higher-margin production improving returns on capital improving -- growing production on an absolute basis and on a per-share basis.
And we'll be providing more information about this as we talk in more detail about these companies.
But I mean you'll see I think both these companies are going to have the financial flexibility to pursue the capital programs that make sense for them.
Yes I mean correct me if I'm wrong but I believe that you think the Upstream would generate around $17 billion of cash flow from operations at I think $85 oil which will then cover the $3.3 billion dividend and leave you the remainder to try and grow I think at 3%.
Is that correct? Those numbers sound about right.
I think we will be of course talking in more detail about the outlook on both these companies as the rest of this year progresses.
Sure.
And then finally I think that the statement was you intend to continue buying back stock until you achieve absolute volume growth.
That would imply clearly that you would be buying back stock throughout 2012? Yes I think what we've said is that we're going to continue to buy back.
We talked a little bit -- the guidance we've given is the share repurchase that we're doing through 2011.
We've authorized $11 billion in total.
And that we would anticipate that we're going to do the majority of that in 2011.
And then we'll continue to evaluate as always the relative balance of investment versus share repurchases going forward.
I guess to give yourself financial flexibility in terms of balance sheet you might be thinking about less buyback in order to generate strong in 2012 in order to generate stronger balance sheets for the 2 separate entities? Yes I don't think we really are in a position to comment about 2012 buybacks.
At this time it's just always a part of our decision-making and on how we're balancing the opportunities for investment versus the opportunities for share repurchase.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
Jim I heard you say on APLNG about the write down you have to take.
But also could you clarify whether you're going to take a 1-train FID there or whether you think you'll be in a position having sold enough gas to take a 2-train FID? Well we'll clarify that when we make our FID decision.
But if we end up in a 1-train FID it would be 1 train with building out the infrastructure for the second train.
And then we would anticipate making a second train decision once we got a little bit more clarity on the marketing of the volumes for the second train.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it's not based in terms of the marketing status of that? No we don't really have anything that we're in a position to talk about at this time.
Inc.</strong> But you are intending to sell presumably some of the Upstream assets to the buyers and coming on the second train I believe? Yes there's a potential that that will occur.
But I think we would not anticipate that we will be selling the level of interest that we would -- we sold to Sinopec as part of marketing the first train.
Generally the buyers that we're having discussions with on the second train if they desire equity they desire equity in the same levels that Sinopec was after.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Second question is is it possible to give some quantification of the benefit you got in the Mid-Continent in this quarter in terms of the WTI discount say compared to the first quarter? I don't think we will give precise numbers on that.
It's a strong quarter for the Downstream operations.
In the second quarter in the strong areas where the Mid-Continent -- there also -- there was a fair strength in the Gulf Coast and the West Coast had fairly respectful margins as well.
The East Coast refineries continue to struggle with margins but we don't have a breakdown between regions that we're ready to share.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And last one your full year outlook in terms of production does that includes kind of an embedded assumption on disposals or is that just how you see the business as it is today? Well I could kind of see it how we see the business as it is today.
I think -- we still think that we will be making additional disposals in 2011 or announcing additional ones in 2011 that we'll close in 2012.
I think those are likely to be weighted later in the year to where they're not going to have significant impacts on production for 2011.
So just to be clear that's an absolute number that -- Libya obviously we've taken Libya volumes out and we've taken the impact of asset sales so far this year which is a relatively small amount maybe 5 a day or less out of that number.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right.
And finally just one question on Libya.
Have you had any discussions with the potential new -- well obviously ongoing new government but the rebels as they're called at the moment or independent people about any of your assets which they may control now? We're not in any position to have discussions with any group like that.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Several quick question.
In Qatar what is the net to the company in oil sand in liquid and gas in the second quarter? I don't think we have disclosed either the volume or the price on LNG Paul specifically to Qatar.
Okay.
I presume it's already in full production right? It is.
Okay.
Kind of in the -- for your full year guidance in production what's the assumption you used in terms of the Bohai Bay shut in? Well as Jeff said we are down 17 000 barrels a day.
I think production prior to the shut in of that production was around 60.
I'm not sure what we've promised as far as when those volumes come back on but...
That's part of the range that we're giving on that numbers.
I mean we are having conversations now with the authorities in China about well the incident overall and the timing of the restart of production.
Jeff can you tell me that what's the range you assume in that your guidance for Bohai Bay? No we're not...
0 to 17.
Yes well...
Okay.
Form 10 when you guys are going to file? On the spin out? Yes.
We're working through details of the schedule right now.
We would like to get in a position to where we file the IRS ruling request in the fourth quarter of this year.
But the Form 10 should be before that right? Well yes it will be different.
It will be around the same time frame and there'll be iterations on the Form 10.
Right.
So we should not expect that's some time say in the third quarter? It will be a fourth quarter event? I think that's probably right Paul.
Okay.
Jeff does any of your joint venture partners when you guys originally signed the agreement that give them the right such as share for Cenovus if there's a change in control they will have the right to acquire your interest or that force it on you.
If there are any agreement of that form or they don't really have the right or that the spinoff does not constitute as a change of control.
There are rights.
We're not giving any of the details.
Each of our partners have various rights that we need to work through as we decide which entity each of the joint ventures goes into.
And we're not really free to discuss exactly what those rights are but those discussions have started with each of our partners.
Okay.
So you're saying that some of them do have rights that could acquire or made the right of the acquiring your interest? Well they're more along the lines of rights of the first refusal but....
Is the spin-off considered as a change of ownership or a change of control? Not -- well in what context? I think we'd have to say that in terms of the documents that govern each of the joint ventures there's different definitions of how an event like -- in different ways and how an event like this would be treated that don't really fall into a change in control type categorization.
So I don't think we can really answer that question as yes no.
The agreements again are more complex than that.
Two final question.
One Kashagan is that one of the asset the company being considered for divestment given that some of your partner look like that have signal that they may be selling their share already given they're top [ph]  of that in that projects? Yes I probably just have to go back to the same kind of answer that we've given on asset sales before is that as we move through asset sales program there are certain assets where we're working on and having discussions about where it's probably not appropriate to give a lot of -- it doesn't help us commercially to give a lot of the details about that.
So we don't really want to get into saying it's this particular asset or that particular asset that we're working on at this time.
Okay.
That's fair.
And final one Jeff I know that you guys have indicated you're going to continue the share buyback program at least for this year at about $1 billion a month.
Just curious that the thinking behind -- when given that by next year you're going to have a 2 separate company 2 new management leadership that who's going to be the CEO not going to be from the existing senior management team in some way.
So what's the thinking behind that to take into consideration whether that the company should stop their share buyback and they offer sales to give perhaps their maximum financial and operating flexibility to the new team? You also say that if we're going to continue in this way by the time we come to the end of the year or early next year the bulk of your cash on hand is probably going to use up 25% debt-to-capital ratio if not high.
But on the other hand that is not extremely low to provide them a lot of flexibility either.
So wondering there how the consideration or thinking -- or that they're thinking in the existing management team or the board? So if you look at where we started the year we started the year with around $10 billion in cash.
We're generating strong cash from our operations this year which is kind of really more than fund the capital and the dividend program.
So as in share repurchase we'd be adding to that cash balance.
And at the same time we're continuing to -- with an asset sales program that we think is going to add proceeds in 2011 and 2012.
You raised a good question.
So when we look at this so we think about the amount of financial flexibility that we have based on cash we started with cash from operations that we're generating continued asset sales program.
We think that we can execute the share repurchase program we've talked about for 2011 and still have the levels of cash the levels of -- end up with levels of debt in these entities that will provide us quite a bit of financial flexibility.
So we're still quite comfortable that we are not doing something that would diminish the ability of either of these companies to really have all the financial flexibility they need going forward by repurchasing shares in 2011.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I got a couple of quick ones.
Actually a few quick ones if I run through them.
Just a point of clarification on the production guidance at least Jeff.
What is the expected scale of production that will be sold in the remaining $5 billion $10 billion program? And just to be clear I assume the guidance as you pointed any sales would likely not affect 2011 just want to be clear that that is indeed the case.
Yes so I think the guidance we've given on production impact from $5 billion to $10 billion asset sales program is 50 to 100...
million barrels a day...
Yes we haven't really come off that number.
And that's still to go Clayton or has any of that been done already? Well I think the first half of the year maybe 5 a day.
Yes I think you can essentially say Doug that it's still to go.
Got it.
And China the 17 000 barrels a day have you knocked that out of your guidance for the second half of year as well? So the guidance is net of that 17 000 or do you assume it comes back again? No we assume that we will be returning those fields to production the B and C platform in Bohai will return to production.
And the question is just what the timing of that will be...
About when it is.
But it's in the guidance for the second half? Is it included or it's excluded? Well it's part of the variability that we see in potential outcomes for the second half.
And from the standpoint that we didn't have that production in July.
We included that impact.
But you're looking at a 25 000-barrel a day variance and it's awfully tough to get -- that's a pretty small number on a 1.65 million a day.
We're just not really -- we can't be a lot more accurate than that in estimating production.
Got it.
I understand there is a lot of confidentiality around Qatar.
So I'm not optimistic on this one Clayton but let me give it a go.
That's a good way to start the question.
Well my understanding is that some of the other very large LNG projects have multi-year tax breaks.
Does that also apply to you guys? Yes I think that falls in the category of commercial terms that we can't disclose.
Okay.
I'll figure out maybe the answer.
I'll just try another couple of quick ones and then I'll let someone else for the go.
I guess the last operating question is really the liquids-rich plays Eagle Ford Bakken.
Can you just give us an update as to how your acreage position is evolving there? It looks as if you're -- I'm guessing you're continuing to add and bolt on as you move towards those high-margin barrels so an update there.
And then my last one is strategic but I'll let you answer that and then I'll go to the strategic one...
So as we-- no I think we have very substantial positions in those plays already that we acquired quite a while ago.
We will -- the acreage that we have added and we're talking about the 340 000 acres that we have added have been in developing plays and not in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Barnett.
I think we see what the -- or we see a lot of running room with the acreage we have already multi-year development at Eagle Ford.
We talk about looking at the Bakken and Barnett and then increasing activity there based on our existing acreage.
We find that acreage is going at a very handsome price right now in those areas.
And so we're looking to add acreage to other places and more perspective not as developed plays and building and concentrating on building out and exploiting the acreage which we have previously acquired in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken and the Barnett.
Okay.
And the last one for me is really -- is maybe it’s actually maybe one for Jim rather than yourself Jeff.
But in the context of going back through the last year and the very successful asset program or sales program I should say you started off with Syncrude.
And one of the glaring I guess disconnects that you can see in the market is the value you've given Cenovus versus let's see your assets that you share with Cenovus now.
Of course there's no -- the chance that you all is going to get split in 2 I'm guessing.
I'm just curious as to why when Jim's comments in the separation call he said "It doesn't really matter to him if production is 1.6 1.5 1.4 in terms of getting value recognition." At least that was my recollection.
Why in light of what management has done to date trying to get the value recognition with restructuring your interest in the Cenovus equivalent assets and maybe trying to achieve that kind of valuation why is that not an option or is it an option? And I'll leave it there.
Okay.
See I'm not sure if I understood there what you're suggesting we might do with our Cenovus -- with our assets in the partnership with Cenovus.
We just generally this all kind of gets to the transparency questions and one of the things that we think will be beneficial to as we go forward when we have even calls such as this one.
The subject is focused on one area and we will be I think providing more information and more focus on either just the Upstream or just the Downstream assets.
And we think that increased transparency will cause a better understanding of what our asset base is going to be.
Yes I guess the issue Jeff is you released an awful lot of value from Syncrude that wasn't arguably being reflected in the stock.
And if you look at the fully integrated oil sands project in other words the Christina Lake and so on all the way down to Woods River is essentially the same thing and you're not getting the value for that.
So why would you make a decision on Syncrude that you wouldn't look to maybe separate out what is clearly been given a very hefty market value and in the case of Cenovus for almost exactly the same assets? I guess...
Well yes well I think maybe the answer there is really more about Syncrude than it is about SCCL and if you think about...
They're really not the same types of assets given our ownership and the running room that we had in Syncrude versus SCCL.
Yes really differently that way too.
Yes just kind of expand on it Clayton [ph].
I mean what in Syncrude was a 9% interest in a very large very solid strong asset for which there was a very good market for in -- and for which we could do the sale in a way that was tax efficient for us.
So all of those things led us to say "Well we can get more value obviously for Syncrude by marketing that asset than it was worth to us keeping it just from a net present value perspective." And really on all of our asset sales transactions our guiding principle is we're driven by what's the net present value the cash flows that we anticipate we're going to get out of these projects versus the value the after-tax value of our sales proceeds.
We're not really doing asset sales.
We're doing asset sales because we think we can get more value as we look at it just from a cash flow perspective through selling the asset than we can by retaining the asset.
It's not really because we're trying to say well this asset or that asset is or is not contributing to our overall market valuation.
Our next question comes from Philip Weiss from Argus Research.
First question I have for you.
In the past you talked about having an interest in acquiring acreage should it become available on the Gulf.
And I was wondering if there's any changes to that in light of your comments about allocating more money to the Eagle Ford.
No I don't think so.
We still have an interest in acquiring acreage in the Gulf.
But in particular we have interest in acquiring exploration acreage because we try to build out what our investment portfolio is going to be longer term.
So the expenditures that we talked about are kind of higher expenditures in the Lower 48 are for 2011 2012 2013-type investments.
When you talk about adding things in the Gulf of Mexico you're adding things that are more perhaps some near-term exploration expenditures.
But really well the larger expenditures are going to come later in the life and that helps build our portfolio in the 2015 and beyond timeframe.
So yes it's a good question.
No change in our interest level in the Gulf of Mexico assets.
And then the next question I have realizations.
I know that with the relationship that we have among the various types of crudes right now that your realizations have improved and then that's helping the Upstream results.
And I was just wondering what kind of thoughts you might have as to how long that's going to last and if it's going to get any wider and that kind of thing.
Well I think we'll continue to see that happen over time.
Are you talking specifically about the margin expansion that we're seeing or the improvement in margins that comes from greater liquids production versus gas or...
No I'm talking more just about the difference between light Brent and WTI and Louisiana light.
No so more on the Downstream side then? No here I'm just thinking when I look at your realizations relative to where prices came in for the second quarter they've gone up.
And so I'm just trying to figure out how long that may -- what your view is on how long that spread may last.
I know there's a downstream benefit as well but I'm thinking on terms of what you're selling your oil for.
Yes I'm not -- I don't know that I really thought about given the question in that way.
So realizations they've improved in some areas.
I guess in part because our costs in those areas or our listings in those areas may be different in the second quarter than first quarter.
But why don't we take that one offline and come back to you? Okay.
That's fine.
And then just want -- Clayton I just to confirm that debt pay down that you mentioned that's just maturing debt.
It's not in the other...
That's right.
That's just the maturity that we have in the fourth quarter.
Our final question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Wheel.
Question on the new acreage that you've added the 343 000 acres.
I know you said it was developing plays.
For one I was going see if you could elaborate a little more on any specific areas on that.
And then in conjunction with that you mentioned the new Canadian shale play hoping maybe to get some color on whether that's oil or gas or when you may start drilling there.
So just generally maybe just some broad characterization on the acreage that we've added.
It's maybe 2/3 in Canada and 1/3 in the Lower 48.
We find ourselves in a position that we don't really want to say a lot more than that because we still continue to acquire acreage.
And it's a competitive world out there and we don't really want to give a lot of color on exactly where we're acquiring acreage.
And obviously we're looking for liquids rich right? So they shales -- unconventional that we're going after is going to be more from a liquid's perspective than a gas perspective.
Okay.
And on Canada -- so again liquids there and any idea on when you may start testing? Well I don't know.
I guess I don't know what the exploration program is around this acreage.
I can't imagine us doing anything this year.
I think the exploration program in 2011 is probably set.
So I would -- I'm going to guess and say it's going to be a 2012 program.
Jeff do know any more? No.
I think it's something that kind of will fall in the categories as we talked about finance for these -- in more detail for these companies going forward that that will be -- and we talk about our exploration program going forward that's -- more color on that.
It's consistent with this idea of exploiting some of the existing acreage that we have onshore and adding to our unconventional base in North America.
Okay.
And last one for you Clayton I know we've talked in the past about your Permian and Bakken and Eagle Ford and I think the original expectation was to add more capital to Eagle Ford due to some constraints takeaway capacity cost et cetera up in the Bakken or maybe even Permian.
Has that landscape changed at all? I know obviously you've mentioned some issues with Eagle Ford but if you could just give us a lay of the land on how those 3 look? Yes so Eagle Ford the results are all in line with our expectations and they're encouraging.
In terms of liquid content in terms of well productivity we're managing through the infrastructure questions there.
As I mentioned we're increasing rig counts in Eagle Ford going kind of from 13 in the second quarter where we think we'll be up to 16.
So we are continuing to expand the pace of that development.
But in capital spend there's estimated still at Eagle Ford around a $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion a year so in 2011.
And the reference that Jeff made earlier about Bakken and Barnett which are incrementally $0.5 billion would be into those areas rather than into Eagle Ford.
Okay.
And I guess I'm fishing -- is that an indication...
And Permian will be part of that as well Blake.
Okay.
But is that an indication that constraints some of the constraints you're initially seeing are beginning to kind of alleviate a bit or...
Well that level of spending is consistent with what we think we can have prompt off-take for.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll now turn the conference back to Mr.
Reasor for closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks Kim and thanks everybody for your participation in the call.
We think we're doing a lot of good things at ConocoPhillips and look forward to the next time we're able to talk with you.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2011 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Clayton Reasor Vice President of corporate and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Reasor you may begin.
Thank you.
Well good morning and welcome to ConocoPhillips Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your interest in the company.
I'm joined today by Jeff Sheets Senior Vice President of Finance and our CFO.
This morning we'll provide a summary of our key financial and operating results for the third quarter as well as our outlook for the remainder of 2011.
You can find our presentation material in the Investor Relations section of the ConocoPhillips website.
But before we get started I'd like you to take a look at the Safe Harbor statement that we have on the next slide.
It's a reminder that we will be making forward-looking statements during this presentation and during the Q&amp;A.
Actual results may differ materially from what's presented today and factors that could cause those actual results to change are included in this slide as well as in our filings with the SEC.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff Sheets to take you through our prepared remarks and presentation.
Thanks Clayton.
I'll start on Slide 2 which highlights some of our third quarter results.
During the quarter we had adjusted earnings of $3.5 billion which is $2.52 per share.
This compares to adjusted earnings of $1.50 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
We generated cash from operations of $4.10 per share during the quarter.
Third quarter production of 1.54 million BOE per day was lower than the prior quarter but in line with our expectations.
In R&amp;M with 92% global refining utilization we were able to take advantage of the improved refining margin environment.
We generated $5.6 billion in cash from operations this quarter.
Our annualized return on capital employed was 16% and our cash return on capital employed was 24%.
During the quarter we completed the sale of the Wilhelmshaven Refinery in Germany and announced that we are marketing the Trainer Refinery in the Philadelphia area.
These steps are consistent with our stated objective to reduce refining capacity by rationalizing low-returning refining assets.
Our purchase of 46 million shares this quarter represented 3% of our shares outstanding.
So let's turn to Slide 3 and we'll discuss some of the details of our performance for the quarter.
Total reported earnings were $2.6 billion which included $837 million of special items.
Special items included $329 million in noncash charges related to the Trainer Refinery a 275 -- $279 million loss on the dilution of the company's interest in APLNG a $109 million increase in deferred tax expense from tax legislation enacted in the United Kingdom as well as losses on the sale of our Wilhelmshaven Refinery and costs related to the Bohai Bay incident.
Total company adjusted earnings were $3.5 billion which is up about $1.2 billion compared to the third quarter of last year.
Our E&amp;P segment improved by $686 million due primarily to higher prices but this was partially offset by higher taxes and lower volumes.
R&amp;M adjusted earnings increased $928 million due largely to higher global Refining and Marketing margins.
In the third quarter of 2010 our earnings included $436 million related to our ownership interest in LUKOIL.
And since we've disposed off our interest in LUKOIL we no longer have similar earnings in our third quarter 2011 results.
Our other segment earnings were $38 million higher than a year ago as a result of higher Chemicals and Midstream earnings offset by higher corporate expenses.
So next we'll look at more detail on our segment earnings starting with our Upstream business which is highlighted on Slide 4 and we'll talk about production first.
Our production decreased approximately 10% compared to the third quarter of last year.
And on this slide I'm going to walk through the key factors behind this change.
We had asset dispositions of 39 000 BOE per day about 20 of which was North America natural gas production.
The events in Libya reduced production by around 48 000 BOE per day.
We continue to see significant decline in Russia.
Our production in Russia this quarter was down 24 000 BOE per day which is about half the production level we saw in the third quarter last year and that's due to poor reservoir performance at the YK field.
We also saw a reduction of around 28 000 BOE per day in our North America natural gas production due to our decision to reduce capital directed toward North America natural gas.
So when you look at Libya Russia and North America natural gas about 50% of our decrease this quarter was from these areas.
And these are areas where we have low-margin production.
These areas average $10 to $15 per BOE of cash margins which compares to around $27 per BOE for our portfolio overall.
In China production decreased by an average of around 32 000 BOE per day for the quarter primarily as a result of the suspended operations in Bohai Bay.
We had more downtime this quarter than we did in the third quarter of last year.
The 28 000 BOE per day impact was related to both planned turnaround activity in the North Sea and unplanned downtime in Alaska and Indonesia.
We expect that this production will largely be back in line in the fourth quarter.
In the rest of our portfolio increases from exploitation drilling well performance as well as new production from major projects primarily higher-margin production from Qatar and the Lower 48 liquids plays more than offset normal fuel declines.
So now I'll turn to the E&amp;P earnings on Slide 5.
Our adjusted earnings for E&amp;P this quarter were $2.2 billion up $686 million from the third quarter of last year.
This increase was driven primarily by higher prices.
Realized prices were up for all commodities this quarter compared to last year which drove adjusted earnings higher in both our U.S.
and international operations.
The benefit from higher prices was partially offset by lower sales volumes and higher taxes associated with the tax law change in the U.K.
In the U.K.
we had $125 million  impact included in our adjusted earnings in the third quarter.
$75 million of this was associated with applying the higher tax rates to our second quarter results and $50 million was associated with the higher tax rate in the third quarter.
In the cost and other category we saw a benefit to adjusted earnings primarily due to lower DD&amp;A rates which was partially offset by increased dry haul cost and higher G&amp;A.
So I'll move on to Slide 6 and talk about some of our E&amp;P unit metrics.
Income per BOE improved from -- improved to $15.49 up from $9.53 a year ago and cash per BOE improved to approximately $27 compared to $22.30 a year ago.
The more -- majority of this improvement was attributed to stronger commodity prices.
However we continue to see benefits as we shift our portfolio towards higher-margin barrels.
And now let's go to Slide 7 and talk about R&amp;M earnings.
Our adjusted R&amp;M earnings were $1.2 billion in the third quarter an increase of $928 million compared to the same period last year.
And higher refining margins were the primary driver for this improved earnings in the quarter making up nearly $900 million of that increase.
As you can see from the table on this chart our realized margins in the U.S.
more than doubled compared to last year resulting in significantly more adjusted earnings in the U.S.
this quarter than in the third quarter of 2010.
There was a small benefit from volumes and operating costs in the quarter.
And refining capacity utilizations were 92% in the U.S.
and 93% internationally.
The $129 million that's in the other category the negative impact there was comprised of several items with foreign exchange impacts being the largest of those.
The current quarter included approximately $120 million related to primarily to hedges on inventory positions and the cumulative net impact of that effect year-to-date is near 0.
And as we look forward to the fourth quarter we don't anticipate there'll be a significant impact from inventories -- from hedge-related inventory impacts as these inventories are liquidated.
Now let's take a look at R&amp;M unit metrics on Slide 8.
The per barrel metrics for Refining and Marketing were very strong this quarter.
Third quarter net income per barrel was $4.08 and cash contributions was $4.79.
Higher realized margins drove the improvement in the unit metrics compared to the third quarter of last year as well as the second quarter of this year.
Now effective October 1 our refining capacity was reduced to 2.2 million barrels per day resulting from our decision to either sell or idle Trainer Refinery.
And with the removal of Trainer from our portfolio we expect to see these unit metrics improve going forward.
Now we'll take a look at our results from other operating segments on Slide 9.
Our Chemicals and Midstream segments both had good quarters.
Chemicals reported earnings of $197 million a $65 million improvement compared to last year and this is the third consecutive quarter of near $200 million earnings from Chemicals.
The increase was primarily due to higher ethylene margins as well as increased equity earnings from CPChem's interest in the Q-Chem 2 project in Qatar.
Midstream earnings of $137 million were $60 million higher than in the third quarter of last year.
The improvement was primarily driven by the result of higher NGL prices and increased trading and marketing results.
Adjusted corporate expenses were $267 million this quarter.
That's $105 million worse than a year ago but this change was primarily driven by the absence of a foreign exchange gain that we recognized in the third quarter of 2010.
So let's go to Slide 10 and look at our cash flow for the quarter.
We generated $5.8 billion in cash from operations this quarter.
In the quarter we invested $3.8 billion in our capital program $3.5 billion of which was directed to E&amp;P.
Distributions to shareholders totaled $4.1 billion this quarter comprised of $3.2 billion of share repurchases and $900 million of dividends.
So if you look at from the start of our share repurchase program in 2010 through the third quarter of 2011 we have repurchased 174 million shares at an average price of around $68 a share for a total cost of $12 billion.
This represents 12% of our shares outstanding.
We ended the quarter with $3.4 billion in cash and $2.6 billion in short-term investments for a total of $6 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Turning to Slide 11 we'll take a look at our capital structure.
Our equity was down $3 billion compared to the end of 2010 as the increase in equity due to earnings was more than offset by reductions from share repurchases dividends and some foreign exchange impacts.
Debt was $23.2 billion at the end of the third quarter.
We expect to retire $500 million in maturing debt during the fourth quarter and our debt-to-cap ratio at the end of the third quarter was 26%.
We'll move now to Slide 12 and talk about our capital efficiency metrics.
ROCE and cash returns improved compared to the third quarter of last year driven by the growth in earnings and cash flow as well as the lower capital employed with the reduction in capital employed largely being a result of our share repurchase program.
Third quarter annualized ROCE was 16% overall with that  breaking down to 15% for E&amp;P and 21% for R&amp;M.
That completes the review of our third quarter 2011 results.
I'll wrap up with some forward-looking comments before we open up the line to questions.
I'll start with some guidance on the fourth quarter and we expect to provide additional guidance regarding 2012 in January.
In R&amp;M we had pretax turnaround expenses year-to-date of approximately $200 million and expect full year expense to be around $300 million.
And this is lower than the previous guidance that we've given of around $350 million.
We expect global refining capacity utilization rates in the low 90s in the fourth quarter of 2011.
At the Wood River Refinery the CORE project construction remains on schedule for completion in October.
Project start-up activities continue as planned and we expect will be completed in mid-November.
On the Upstream side of our business we anticipate fourth quarter production of 1.56 million to 1.58 million BOE per day which brings our full year 2011 production guidance to 1.61 million to 1.62 million BOE per day.
This outlook includes the impact of suspended operations at Bohai Bay.
At Bohai Bay we are currently seeing around 15 000 net BOE per day resulting from activities to reduce reservoir pressures in the field and we are in the process of developing our revised field operating plans.
For 2011 we expect production per share to be 5% higher than 2010 excluding the impact of the loss production in Libya.
There's no change to our 2011 DD&amp;A guidance of $8 billion our corporate expense guidance of $1.1 billion or to our anticipated $13.5 billion 2011 capital program.
Now I'll switch to a discussion of some of our exploration activities.
We continue to pursue high-quality unconventional opportunities.
So far in 2011 we've added about 400 000 acres in North America shale plays in areas that include Avalon Wolfcamp Niobrara and the Lower 48 Duvernay and Ken Allen [ph] in Canada.
And if you look at it that's about 60% of the North America acreage acquired in 2011 is in Canada.
Internationally we've announced that we've become a joint venture partner in the Goldware [ph] shale project located in the Canning Basin of Western Australia.
The agreement will see us invest over 4 phases of exploration and earn and retain a 75% interest.
Following completion of the initial drilling program we'll have the right to assume operatorship of the Goldware project.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Coronado well spud earlier this month.
We should know the results of this well in the first quarter of 2012.
In Poland the fourth well has been successfully drilled and we will begin a several stage frac over the 500-meter horizontal section of this well in the fourth quarter.
In Australia drilling operations will begin at Poseidon early in the first quarter of 2012 and we are planning a 5- to 7-well appraisal program.
In the N Block in Kazakhstan the Nursultan well is expected to spud in the first quarter of 2012.
We had a dry hole in the Arafura Sea offshore Indonesia with the Kaluka [ph] well and we have no additional activity planned in the Arafura Sea at this time.
Now shift to the discussion of our major projects globally.
Activity levels in the Lower 48 liquids-rich shale plays continue to ramp up.
Our third quarter production at Eagle Ford was about 31 000 BOE per day with 77% of that being liquids.
We operated 15 rigs in this play in the third quarter and we expect to be up to 16 rigs by year end.
September production at Eagle Ford was 36 000 BOE per day which reflected  about 10 000 to 12 000 BOE per day of curtailments due to third-party trucking constraints.
We continue to work closely with other companies to increase production offtake capacity in the near and long term.
We expect continued rig activity -- rig count activity and production levels to continue to increase at our other liquids-rich plays in the Bakken Barnett and Permian.
In the U.K.
the Clair Ridge project received government approvals in October.
We have a 24% working interest in the project.
We expect gross peak production around 200  -- around 120 000 BOE per day.
We announced approval of the final investment decision for the initial train of the APLNG project.
The 2-train project has an anticipated net production of 115 000 to 120 000 BOE per day.
And this long-lived low-F&amp;D cost project provides a long-term earnings and cash flow source to our portfolio and delivers returns that are competitive with other LNG projects.
Regarding asset sales the company continues to expect to sell $15 billion to $20 billion of assets in the 3-year period from 2010 to 2012.
We've completed $8 billion since 2010.
We expect an additional $1 billion to $2 billion in the fourth quarter of this year or the first quarter of next year with the balance of the program being completed in 2012.
We continued to repurchase shares and expect to do so at a rate similar to the third quarter in the fourth quarter this year and we expect to complete the $11 billion share repurchase program this year.
And finally turning to our announced spinout transaction.
Earlier this month we announced the future leaders of the 2 independent companies that will result from the repositioning.
Ryan Lance will become the CEO of ConocoPhillips the E&amp;P company; and Greg Garland will become the CEO of the Downstream company.
We expect to file the initial ruling request with the IRS this month and the initial Form 10 with the SEC by mid-November.
And this Form 10 will be a public document.
It's still our expectation that the distribution of the Downstream company shares which would complete the spinout would occur in the second quarter of 2012.
So that concludes our prepared remarks and we'll now open up the line for questions.
Okay Jeff thanks a lot.
In the remaining time of the call we'd like to give all those interested an opportunity to ask questions.
Our second quarter call we ended up with some analysts that weren't able to get in.
So we'd ask those that -- we request those that are asking questions if you could limit to one question with one follow-up and then re-up the second time around we'd like to give everybody the opportunity to ask a question if they'd like to chime in.
So Kim I'll turn it over to you now to open the line.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess a quick question on the onshore acreage.
You've continued to pick up acreage mainly in Canada but it would make sense I think to be more aggressive in that area.
Can you talk through your strategy for growing acreage in terms of what your ability is at the moment? As we mentioned we added around 400 000 acres so far this year and that isn't -- it's not just Canada it's a mix of Canada and the Lower 48.
We have a substantial acreage position already and of course we'd like to continue to add to that longer term but we need to do it at prices which make sense.
So we are out there trying to develop acreage positions in areas that are still rather prospective in nature where the costs are more reasonable.
And we're going to be as aggressive at that as we can be but always with our eye on what kind of returns do we think we can get out of these plays.
So you're not likely to see us be competing in areas where acreage costs have already come up to very high levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a specific question on China.
Obviously having to redo your plan before perhaps resuming drilling.
What sort of scale of delay is there going to be before we can see production back? Well it's not going to happen near term.
As we think about the fourth quarter we are probably going to be at the same kind of levels that we've talked about our current rates are at.
It's going to be an extended period of time as we get production back in the field.
We need to develop this operating plan and work with the authorities to get that plan approved and we can't give you a real precise timetable on when that's going to occur.
Our next question comes from Jacques Rousseau from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get your thoughts on the 2012 buyback program.
I believe you thrown out some guidance of $5 billion to $10 billion.
But with your comments on asset sales a few billion over the next few quarters should we imply from that that much of this buyback will take place in the latter half of 2012? We haven't given any guidance on timing on share repurchase.
I think you're correct though in that that we've said that the asset sales program of $5 billion to $10 billion is primarily what would be used to fund the share repurchase program of $5 billion to $10 billion.
So depending upon exactly how our asset sales program is developed that could impact our timing on share repurchases.
But other than that general guidance there's nothing more specific we can give you right at this time.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Back again to the share repurchase.
I was just wondering how the split will affect that in 2012.
Again kind of following up on the comments on the previous questions the asset sales program is primarily what will fund the timing of the share repurchases.
If you look at what comprises our asset sales program it's a mix of Upstream and Downstream assets but it's dominated in terms of value by Upstream assets.
So as you think about share repurchase program to the extent share repurchases aren't done and asset sales aren't completed prior to the spin and they're completed after the spin then the proceeds are most likely going -- more of it is going into the Upstream part of the company which would be available to fund share repurchases in the Upstream part of the company.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Is there going to be -- I understand.
But yes that's clear.
The split process presumably would suspend the buyback? No that doesn't.
There is no requirement to suspend the buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you can literally just keep going as a combined company with the buybacks guidance until you split and then the split will continue along the lines of the asset disposals that occur for the rest of the year? Right well in -- I mean it -- just asset disposals are a big part of it.
But of course we're always looking at the balance of cash flow and capital and what other investment opportunities are.
So there could be buyback programs in both the Upstream and the Downstream company just depending upon how all those different factors are mixing in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I noticed that your proceeds from dispositions in Q3 were $2.2 billion.
Is there a backlog of cash to come from previous dispositions? Or is the guidance that you gave of $8 billion completed if you're like fully paid for in cash to you? Yes the $8 billion is completed with cash received.
We are working on a lot of different potential asset sales which have different timing of when they are likely to close.
As we look at the list of things we're doing we can see that $1 billion to $2 billion of those will close either in the fourth quarter of this year or the first quarter of next year.
And when we say close or closed we mean close and fund.
And then like we've said previously we've talked about the general categories of asset sales.
But other than that we're -- it's just not in our interest to really be a lot more specific about exactly which asset sales we are pursuing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're saying that the $5 billion to $10 billion is majority Upstream but you haven't given any more specific guidance on what those assets would be? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> So it's just more than 50% is all we can...
More than 50%...
Research Division</strong> I mean majority.
Just to get the majority...
No.
Let's say no it's more like 80% or 90% Upstream.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson from ISI.
Research Division</strong> Jeff in E&amp;P the new production there is generating much higher margins in 2011 I think because you talked about almost irrespective of the time period that you want to compare against.
And so my question in regards to drivers.
Meaning I think Gutter in Canada were mentioned last quarter as being pretty supportive.
But I want to see if there are other positive drivers in the current period as well that might be a little different? Yes.
In the third quarter we've -- the drivers are Gutter and the Lower 48 the liquid shift there.
Though in the third quarter we lost a little bit of ground with the unplanned -- with both the planned and the unplanned downtime because the downtime was in areas like Norway the U.K.
Alaska Indonesia all of which are relatively high higher than -- average or higher-than-average margins.
So that production will come back on in the fourth quarter as we don't anticipate that same kind of levels.
And then we continue as we talked about earlier to ramp up production in the liquids-rich areas in the Lower 48 and we continue to have declines in some of the lower-margin areas particularly in North America natural gas.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And also in divestitures I think Vietnam and Kashagan -- or Kazakhstan appear fairly saleable in this environment.
And so on those 2 positions can you provide any insight on the company's level of investment in those 2 countries? No.
I think both of those are things that are talked about and are in this general category of looking around our portfolio  in places where we have maybe not long-term strategic good opportunities and our potential is being part of our sales program.
But other than that we don't really want to provide a lot of color on the process for asset sales.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your Lower 48 liquids production.
It looks like it's been picking up nicely here.
I think Jeff you alluded to the ramp up in the Eagle Ford.
Given the nature of these shale plays is it reasonable to now assume an ongoing sequential increase near Lower 48 liquids? I don't know if that's 5 000 or 10 000 barrels a day a quarter.
Is it okay that we -- is that a reasonable way to start thinking about this now that you've kind of gotten on the shale growth mode here? Yes I think that's right Arjun and particularly in the Eagle Ford.
And so we've said on the Eagle Ford that we were around 35 000 a day in the third quarter -- the actual rate in the third quarter.
And with -- when we're still dealing with production constraints and probably will be from now through 2013 we think we're going to get to 100 000 barrels a day in Eagle Ford in 2013.
And as we bring on the field it's just fairly constant increase between current production levels and about 100 000-barrel-a-day level in the Eagle Ford.
We're also starting to ramp up some activities in the Bakken as well.
Yes.
So if you just looked at the Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian in the third quarter we're around 100 000 a day in those 3 areas.
We expect to be around 250 000 a day some time in 2013.
Research Division</strong> That's a BOE number Clayton? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And 75% 80% of oil I presume? I would say it is around 70% that's right.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
The related quick follow-up was just I think you alluded to trucking constraints and so forth.
I thought you all had your own Midstream infrastructure here? Maybe it's just the timing of hooking things up and so forth but can you just try and connect the dots there please? We are building out our own Midstream infrastructure.
Yes.
I think there was a new trucking facility that was built in Eagle Ford and a couple at Bakken but they really didn't move the needle that much in terms of increasing capacity only  maybe 1 or 2 a day.
We have talked about building pipeline gathering system kind of a trunkline to get us to a liquid trading point out of Eagle Ford.
We think that's done is it the middle of next year? But we've got a lag of 10 000 to 15 000 a day of Eagle Ford that we can't get out just because of constraints.
And really that will continue until more infrastructure is built up in the area.
So I guess it's a good problem to have to be producing more and these wells to be more productive than what we thought they were and we are investing in additional infrastructure in that area.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin from Société Générale.
Two quick ones.
With the Eagle Ford you said that you were constrained infrastructure-wise.
How many wells still need to be frac-ed and what kind of a quarterly inventory should we expect you to build? Well let's see.
You're talking about inventory of wells in -- I don't think the backlog is on completion of the wells or frac-ing John.
I think it's hooking the wells up.
Okay.
That's fine.
So actually we have 3 dedicated completion crews at Eagle Ford.
And that's more than enough to satisfy the 15 rigs that are running.
It's to condensate  trucking is the specific constraint.
Okay thanks Clayton.
Last one for me is you're selling more assets next year.
Do you have a ballpark figure for what kind of volumes are associated with those Upstream sales? Yes.
I think we can go with the same guidance we had previously.
It depends very much on what the composition of that -- the asset sales are of course.
But it's in the range of 50 000 to 100 000 BOE per day.
Our next question comes from Ian Reid from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one one of your competitors in Queensland yesterday talked about a very significant rise in U.S.
dollar-denominated CapEx due to movements in the Aussie dollar.
The Aussie dollar is obviously very strong at the moment.
I wonder if you're seeing the same sort of impacts as you start to award contracts there and whether you've done anything to mitigate that sort of impact? Yes that's certainly one of the major factors we're dealing with with APLNG.
And to the extent we can we're trying to do as much of the project outside of Australia not just because of the Aussie dollar impacts but just because of the general condition with labor there and the fact there's quite a bit of activity in a fairly concentrated area there.
So we're moving things and trying to build as much modularize as we can moving things like I say out of Australia.
We have seen -- if you look over the last several years of course the Aussie dollar has strengthened considerably against the U.S.
dollar.
If you just look more recently the U.S.
dollar's gained a little bit of that back.
But that is one of the major impacts that we'll be watching as we move forward with the construction on the APLNG project.
Yes and we've built a little bit of that into capital program.
Part of the increase from the $13 billion to $15 billion in 2012 E&amp;P capital is due to foreign exchange impact both in Canada and Australia.
So there is part of that that's already embedded in our capital program.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
They were talking about potentially 70% of the CapEx being denominated in Aussie dollars.
Is that the sort of number you're looking at? We're probably a little less than that but not far off of that range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry just one other very quick follow-up.
In your asset sales program you're talking about for 2012 onwards is there kind of embedded in that any Downstream disposals? Yes there are.
Yes.
We've talked about pipelines and we've talked about terminals.
We've also talked about reducing our refining capacity down to around 2 million barrels a day.
So that would imply that -- we're at 2.2 million barrels right now.
So that would imply that there are possibly some refinery sales in that number.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible to say whether that's kind of something that could emerge in the short term next 6 months or so? Perhaps towards the end of that window.
We're looking at various assets around our portfolio and have processes going on.
But as -- as much like with the Upstream asset sales we would prefer to talk about those when they get closer to being actualized.
Our next question comes from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you could give us a little bit of an idea on the kind of tight curve and decline rate you're seeing on the Eagle Ford wells on average? And what the current producing well count is? Let's see.
We've got -- well by year end we're saying we're going to have over 150 wells drilled.
I don't have -- and I'm sorry Mark what were the other details you were looking for? I need to...
LLC Research Division</strong> I was looking for was there kind of tight curve or EURs as well as decline rates that you're seeing? The only thing we've got out there so far and I would imagine we're going to provide more detail as we get more experience with the field but the average 30-day well rate is still running around 1 400 BOE.
We've got -- we've initiated pad drilling.
We've got some details on the -- let's say more of an E&amp;P type of approach to Eagle Ford that we could probably run you through but I don't have EURs or decline rates on Eagle Ford for you.
So we had a 150-well program for the year and we've been progressing that on through the year.
I don't have the exact well count but we're here in nearly November now so we're obviously a long ways through that program.
But yes I don't have the exact number of wells completed and wells waiting to be completed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me try if I could shift to the Downstream for a sec.
I'm a little bit curious about the decision to actually shut down Trainer in advance of sale when I believe it was generating positive cash margins.
I wonder if you could talk about that a little bit.
And at the same time give any idea what the selling price or the proceeds were on the Wilhelmshaven sale? We haven't disclosed the number on Wilhelmshaven.
It was not a significant number in our overall asset sales program.
The Trainer Refinery was not producing net income.
It was depending upon the exact refining margin of the time.
The cash generation was also not very strong.
We were at a point where we were having to decide about the timing on turnaround cost and future capital expenditures which had a lot to do with the timing of the decision to shut it down in October.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
Trading on just on Eagle Ford and Bakken what is your well cost right now? And also that you'd given IP for Eagle Ford.
Do you have an IP for Bakken? And also the EUR? The second question is on the Bohai Bay.
Based on my estimate that at $100 brand [ph] look like their unit margin on those is going to be over $40 per barrel.
Just want to see if that's on the ballpark correct? And also I think Sinopec seems to suggest that a earliest of the resumption of their operation may be second quarter 2012.
Want to see if there's any comment that you can make on that.
Why don't I take the Eagle Ford one.
We haven't been real specific on well cost.
I mean these things are -- I can give you some data around -- well depth is somewhere between 16 000 and 19 000 feet.
We're running 3 500 to 5 800 laterals.
And on average about 15 stage fracs.
I think well cost that I've seen drilling and completion are probably in the $6 million to $8 million per well range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How about Bakken? Let's see.
I don't have that on Bakken Paul so that will be something we'll need to disclose later.
Research Division</strong> And that you disclosed about Eagle Ford on the IP? Do you have IP for Bakken? Well that's not IP.
That's average 30-day rate.
So IPs are actually higher than that.
Average 30-day rate...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's 30-day IP I mean.
Yes.
Average 30-day rate at the Bakken is around 950 barrels a day.
We're running 6 rigs.
We expect to have 7 by the end of this year and close to 90% black oil.
Production in the third quarter is around 20 a day.
And then Paul in your questions on Bohai.
Bohai is oil production so it is a -- the cash margins on Bohai we don't comment on precise cash margins at a field level but you're in the right direction.
We are -- we can't say obviously it's oil production so it's in the better half of our margin production.
As far as the timing of when production is going to resume at Bohai we don't really have a comment on that.
I think we don't expect it to be -- it's going to resume in the fourth quarter or early in 2012.
But we're going to -- got to continue to work with the authorities on the new development plan.
And as we know more we'll update more on that.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff can I just sneak in an unrelated question? In Libya have you guys go back and look at your fuel operation at all? Or that you haven't really in touch of the government yet? We've just begun that process now.
We start by getting some people in there to assess the overall security situation and get our comfort with being able to put people back into Libya.
We're really in that process now.
We don't have any update yet on the condition of the field and therefore really couldn't give a good answer as to timing on when we would expect things to come back.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The exploration and production step-up in capital for next year I guess $13 billion to $15 billion.
Can you give us some idea how much of that is going to be in the Lower 48 or in the U.S.
I should say generally? Yes.
Of the $2 billion step-up because if you think about what we've said previously had guided more towards a $13 billion number for 2012 for Upstream.
About half of that is dedicated to the Lower 48.
Research Division</strong> So what would that maybe absolute Jeff in terms of total CapEx as you like? Yes it's around $5 billion in the Lower 48.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up I guess what's behind my question is you guys I guess as of January 1 are going to -- well maybe not January 1 sometime next year are going to be defamed on the U.S.
tax code as an E&amp;P company which if I'm not mistaken means that you can now write off 100% of your intangible drilling cost.
So what I'm trying to get at Jeff is how much of a tax shield would you anticipate with that level of capital expenditure in the Lower 48? Because I imagine it's a fairly substantial positive on your cash flow as we look over the next couple of years as you become an E&amp;P...
Yes I'm not -- I don't have that answer off the top of my head and I'm not sure if those rules are just strictly based on being -- the business lines that you're in or if there's some size requirements in there as well.
I don't have that answer.
Research Division</strong> So of the $5 billion can you tell how much of that is actually drill bit capital as opposed to infrastructure? It's mostly -- it's all drill bit capital.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Question on Poland.
I appreciate your update but I know at least how your partner traded the first horizontal well results in the market.
Rednose [ph] is disappointing.
I mean can you assess what you learned from the first horizontal well and how the second one that's in process here probably differs? I believe it's testing the carboniferous  zone which differs in the per zone expectation timing there? If you would I have a follow-up.
Yes.
There's not a lot we can say about that because it's just so early in the play.
So we've drilled 4 wells 2 verticals and 2 horizontals and we've tested one.
And I'd say the results we thought were pretty well within what we expected from that.
And we'll need to test the second one but that's really just going to be the beginning of trying to evaluate that field.
So the results are encouraging.
It looks like we'll want to continue to go ahead and build this out and acquire more information.
But it's just too early for us to really give you much guidance as to whether we think these are good results or bad results.
They're encouraging results that encourage us to go further.
Research Division</strong> Good.
I appreciate that.
Maybe a broader question.
I mean I know that Conoco's clearly been a better seller of assets funding of outsize or repurchase and I appreciate the forward sale guidance discussed.
But as portfolio rationalization reaches advanced stages I mean is your view changed at all to potentially be a maybe more-targeted acquire with in your core skill set as we move into 2012 currently alongside announced asset high grading? If you look at our portfolio we've got a lot of good opportunities to invest within our existing portfolio and where we're going to spend our capital in the next 3 years to 5 years is pretty well defined already.
But we're always on the -- be on the lookout for new opportunities.
But the opportunities that we are going to be most interested in are things that help build out our longer-term portfolio so things in 2016 and beyond perhaps that kind of time frame.
So as we think about things that we might acquire it's still going to be focused on like we have been discussing on adding to our resource acreage base adding to our exploration acreage and those type of opportunities as opposed to anything that is more focused on near-term capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just -- just slip in a last one of -- just do an update on the current Seaway process and timetable if you would? I'll leave it at that.
So the Seaway crude pipeline which we own 50% of and Enterprise owns 50% of we've talked in early September that we would be open to selling our interest in that pipeline.
Enterprise operates the pipeline.
We are having some initial discussions with them about the sales process and we're working to design and lay out the rest of the sales process.
That will happen over the next -- over the coming months.
There's nothing really new to report on that process other than that we're actively in the marketing process now for the pipeline.
Our next question comes from Ann Kohler from CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but I do have a question.
In looking at -- you certainly did put out the new -- named the new executives for each of the individual companies.
Will you be providing additional color on the rounding out of the management teams for each of the companies? And if so when will that be? Yes.
I think you can expect to hear more from us about rounding out the management teams before the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Philip Weiss from Argus Research.
Most of my questions have already been asked but I did have one question on China.
With what happened there at Bohai Bay does this have any impact on your longer-term relationships or plans or opportunities there? No we've operated in China for quite a while and hope to continue to operate in China for a long time going forward and we'll be -- still remain very interested in additional opportunities in China.
So the short answer is no it hasn't really changed our thought about continuing to make investments there.
Yes they're a big customer.
It's a part of the market that's growing.
We want to be operating and selling LNG to China for the next 40 years.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just want to get a little more color on the Refining and Marketing results.
It looks like $1.2 billion in adjusted earnings.
It looks like there wasn't a heck of a lot of after-tax profit on the international side.
Is that fair to assume that all this income was basically generated in the domestic portfolio? Yes so -- I think there's a breakdown of that on the slides that we've provided.
And it's also in the supplemental information.
But you're correct it's mostly in the domestic portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Can you give me a little bit of color on in terms of what regions the profitability came from? Was it mostly -- was it 50% 60% 70% Mid-Continent? Or is it 1/3 1/3 1/3 across the entire portfolio? Well mid-Continent obviously was a very strong -- I don't think we are going to give percentages but maybe just qualitative comments.
Of course the Mid-Con was a very strong area substantial feedstock advantage there for refineries that can -- process WTI and WCS given the current state of the market with the WGI brand differentials.
The Gulf Coast and the West Coast markets were also reasonably strong in the third quarter.
And the East Coast markets continue to struggle.
So the most profitable areas were the refineries we had in the Mid-Con area.
I don't have an exact percentage of how much of our earnings came from those refineries.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the CORE project are you fully ramped up now on the project? No.
We're in the process of starting it up.
So construction is mostly complete.
And we're in the -- you start up the project in phases and you start up different units as you go.
We think by mid-November we'll be completely started up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you will completely shift your crude slate from light sweet crude to Canadian heavy? Is that fair to say? No.
It's just an incremental addition of Canadian heavy capacity.
Yes what happens there Faisel so you have a significant increase in clean product yield as we convert a lot of asphalt that used to come out of Wood River into clean products.
So clean product  yield increased to 83% from 78%.
Gross crude capacity change or increases to around 365 000 barrels a day.
You've got 80 000 barrel a day of coking capacity and you have increased clean product production of about 50 000 barrels a day with 20 000 of that being diesel and 30 000 of it being gasoline.
So it's a -- it really helps you on both sides.
You can't run more Canadian crude because you've increased coking capacity but there's also a big uplift in clean product yield as we reduce the bottoms and produce more gasoline and more diesel fuel.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got you.
I understand.
And then just on the Upstream side the unplanned -- I guess the planned downtime in North Sea and the unplanned downtime in Alaska of 28 000 barrels a day where are we with those volumes today? Those are mostly back online in the fourth quarter.
That's right.
Both Alaska and the U.K.
North Sea are back online.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> And then last question on Bohai Bay.
Do you guys have to reserve some sort of environmental sort of cost for this whole cleanup? Or is that kind of what we're seeing in your -- internally [ph] in your one-time costs that you flowed through in the third quarter? Yes.
So we had -- as you'll see on the detail of our supplemental information we had a $40 million income impact related to that in the third quarter.
We'll have some carryover to that type of impact in the fourth quarter that won't be as large as that number.
We've announced publicly that we're going to set up a couple of funds to deal with any environmental claims and the status of those is that we're continuing to have discussions with the authorities in China about how we set up and administer those funds.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that has not been expensed yet I take it? No it has not.
And we don't have a good -- any more real detail to provide about those funds.
Our final question comes from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys I just want to go back to the Seaway issue again.
In terms of your thoughts regarding potential divestiture have you backed away from the idea that you need that line running in its current direction in order to supply very specific crude requirements in Ponca City? We think we have found other methods to supply Ponca City which are more expensive than using the Seaway pipeline to do that.
And that would be part of the calculation we'll do when we get a value for the Seaway pipeline as far as whether it makes sense for us to sell our interest in the pipeline.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Jeff if I could just ask of the $120 million after-tax in the derivative/mark-to-market effects in the third quarter how much U.S.
how much foreign assumedly all refining? Yes all refining.
Mostly U.S.
I'm not -- I don't have the percent of it.
I don't have the exact...
Most of it is in the U.S.
Most of it's U.S.
I mean that's a good point that you raised there Mark.
So that $120 million just to put a little clarity on that was a third quarter item.
But that was -- we had  the opposite effect of that kind of spread out between the first quarter and the second quarter.
So that's why we've said  that's $120 million in the third quarter but year-to-date is a 0.
And that really has to do with differences on how physical positions and the paper positions which are used to hedge physical positions are marked due to the way the accounting rules work.
So you get a little bit of timing noise from quarter to quarter as a result of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I assume that's in your published margin? It is.
That is correct.
And we really don't expect any impact from that timing difference between the underlying paper position and the physical to occur in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
That was our final question.
I'll now turn the conference back to Mr.
Clayton Reasor.
Great.
Well thank you all for your interest and participation in the call.
You can find the material and a replay of this call on our website later today.
I look forward to talking with you in the future.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Clayton Reasor Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Reasor you may begin.
Great.
Good morning.
Welcome to ConocoPhillips' fourth quarter earnings conference call.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
I'm joined today by Jeff Sheets Senior Vice President of Finance and our CFO.
This morning we'll provide a summary of our key financial and operating results for the fourth quarter as well as our outlook for 2012.
As in the past you can find our presentation material on the Investor Relations section of ConocoPhillips' website.
Please take a look at the Safe Harbor statement that we have on the bottom of this slide.
It's a reminder that we'll be making forward-looking statements during the presentation and during the question-and-answer session.
And actual results may be materially different from what's presented today.
And factors that could cause actual results to differ are included here as well as in our filings with the SEC.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff Sheets to take you through our fourth quarter results.
Jeff? Thanks Clayton.
I'll start with an overview of our fourth quarter which is on Slide 2.
During the quarter our earnings adjusted for special items were $2.7 billion or $2.02 a share.
That's up from $1.9 billion or $1.32 a share in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our annualized return on capital employed was 13%.
We generated cash from operations of $5.8 billion which is $4.39 per share.
In E&amp;P our production of 1.6 million BOE per day was higher than the prior quarter and slightly above our expectations.
In R&amp;M our global refining capacity utilization rate was 94%.
We made significant progress on our asset disposition program with the sale of the Colonial Seaway Crude and Seaway Products pipelines for $2.4 billion in proceeds during the quarter.
Our repurchase of 46 million shares is quite a represented 3% of our shares outstanding and we ended the year with $6.4 billion in cash and short-term investments.
So I'll turn to Slide 3 and talk about those earnings in more detail.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $3.4 billion which included $723 million of special items.
Special items included $1.5 billion in net gains from asset sales largely resulting from the pipeline dispositions I just mentioned.
We also had $649 million of impairments.
The large impairments included $395 million related to our investment in the Naryanmarneftegaz joint venture in Russia and $190 million for certain conventional and natural gas properties in Canada.
Other special items in Q4 included $101 million in settlement and other costs related to the Bohai Bay incident and $25 million related to our repositioning efforts.
So taking these special items into account adjusted earnings were $2.7 billion which is about $750 million higher than the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our E&amp;P segment improved by around $500 million primarily due to stronger crude oil and LNG prices offset by higher taxes.
R&amp;M's fourth quarter adjusted earnings of $200 million were basically unchanged from a year ago.
And combined our other segments contributed about $250 million to the increase in earnings this quarter and we'll go through more detail on that on some subsequent slides.
So let's go to Slide 4 and look at our 2011 full year earnings.
So full year 2011 adjusted earnings were $12 billion which were more than $3 billion improved from 2010.
All of our business segments generated better financial results in 2011 than in 2010.
So excluding the LUKOIL segment for which we stopped recording equity earnings in the fourth quarter of 2010 and which had $1.25 billion of earnings in Q4 '10 our adjusted earnings increased by $4.6 billion from 2010 to 2011.
So next we'll go through some detail on our segment earnings and we'll start with the production levels in our Upstream business which are highlighted on Slide 5.
Fourth quarter production was 1.6 million BOE per day.
That's down 8% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
If you exclude the impact of dispositions and the suspension of our operations in China and Libya production was down 1% over this time period.
Asset dispositions reduced production by about 30 000 BOE per day.
14 or so of that was from North America natural gas production.
In Libya production was down 43 000 BOE per day compared to the same period last year.
Production in Libya started again in late November and continues to ramp up and current production levels are around 20 000 BOE per day.
In Russia we continue to have difficulties with the reservoir in the YK field and our production was down 23 000 BOE per day in that area.
In Bohai Bay our production was 38 000 BOE per day lower than a year ago.
ConocoPhillips continued the depressurization plan for the field and continues to work with our co-venture and regulatory agencies related to Bohai Bay.
So excluding these items I just discussed increases in production from exploitation drilling well performance and production from major projects offset decreases associated with decline and downtime.
So some things going to -- compared to the same period of last year fourth quarter production highlights included a 44 000 BOE per day increase in production from our Lower 48 liquids-rich shale plays the Eagle Ford and the Barnett; 32 000 BOE per day increase from Qatargas 3 project; and a 13 000 BOE per day increase associated with new wells at our SCCL joint venture from the Christina Lake Phase C ramp-up.
So we'll see similar drivers when we look at our full year production numbers on Slide 6.
For the full year 2011 production was 1.62 million BOE per day which was down 8% from 2010.
Excluding the impacts of dispositions in Libya and China production was down 2% or about 30 000 BOE per day.
Asset dispositions for the year reduced production by 48 000 BOE per day 17 000 of which was North America natural gas of production.
Libya production was down 39 000 BOE per day and production out of Russia was down 23 000 BOE per day compared to the same period last year.
And the full year impact of reduced production at Bohai Bay was 15 000 BOE per day.
Like the fourth quarter numbers 2011 project and drilling performance highlights included significant increases at QG3 and in our North American unconventional plays.
And these increases largely offset declines in the rest of our portfolio.
So now I'll turn to E&amp;P earnings which is on Slide 7.
Adjusted E&amp;P earnings for the quarter were $2.3 billion.
This is 27% higher than the fourth quarter of last year.
This increase was primarily driven by higher crude and NGL prices and these prices drove both our U.S.
and our international adjusted earnings higher.
Our earnings in the fourth quarter reflected a $3.50 Henry Hub natural gas price.
In addition to price impact lower DD&amp;A and favorable FX impacts increased earnings this quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Adjusted earnings were negatively impacted this quarter versus a year ago by lower sales volumes and higher costs.
Costs were higher primarily due to the U.K.
tax law change and the fact that the QG3 project was fully online.
So next I'll move to Slide 8 and talk about some of our E&amp;P unit metrics.
Our cash and income per BOE metrics were better than a year ago and better than the third quarter.
For the year income per BOE was $15.72 which has improved over $10.56 in 2010.
Full year cash margins increased from $23.22 to $27.46 in 2011.
Now this improvement largely reflects the increase in commodity prices but there's also a small margin enhancement related to changes in our production mix and we'll continue to focus on improving margins by shifting our portfolio to a higher margin production as we go forward.
So next let's look at R&amp;M earnings on Slide 9.
R&amp;M adjusted earnings of $200 million were basically flat with the fourth quarter of last year.
So R&amp;M are offsetting impacts earnings this quarter.
Refining margins were lower and that was offset by lower cost and higher volumes and higher marketing margins.
And with the exception of the Mid-Continent area the Refining &amp; Marketing environment in the  fourth quarter was generally worse than the refining market we saw in the fourth quarter 2010.
This quarter our refining margins benefited by approximately $180 million related to the impact of liquidating inventory associated with the portfolio changes we made during 2011.
As compared to the fourth quarter 2010 our volumes were benefit to earnings as global utilization rates were 94%.
And costs related to turnarounds were $90 million pretax during the fourth quarter which is $117 million less than the same period a year earlier and utility costs were also lower primarily as a result of lower natural gas prices.
So if you look at the full year 2011 R&amp;M generated $2.6 billion in adjusted earnings and $4.1 billion in operating cash flow.
So we look at the R&amp;M unit metrics on Slide 10 the per barrel metrics for Refining &amp; Marketing were similar to a year ago and down significantly from the third quarter this year.
The fourth quarter income per BOE was $0.70 and the cash contribution was $1.50.
For the year income margins of $2.29 per BOE were improved over 2011 margins of $1.10 per BOE.
We continue to look for ways to improve our margins through processing more advantaged crudes and increasing our clean product yield.
An example of this is the Wood River refinery where at current market prices we expect about a $4 per barrel uplift in Wood River's margins as a result of the CORE project startup in November of this year.
We'll take a look at the results of our other operating segments on Slide 11.
Adjusted earnings increased in both our Chemicals and our Midstream segments.
Chemicals earnings of $156 million improved primarily as a result of higher volumes from international projects.
2011 earnings in this segment were $745 million up from $498 million in 2010.
Midstream earnings increased $27 million up to $118 million in 2011 in the fourth quarter of 2011 reflecting improvements in NGL prices.
2011 Midstream earnings for the year were $458 million up from $306 million in 2010.
Adjusted Corporate expenses were $154 million this quarter.
This was lower than what we expected due to favorable foreign exchange impacts higher capitalized interest and lower interest expense.
So now we'll -- let's talk about cash flow on Slide 12.
In the fourth quarter we generated $5.8 billion in cash from operations which includes $1 billion decrease -- $1 billion due to a decrease in working capital.
Also during the quarter we closed several asset dispositions resulting in proceeds of $2.7 billion.
During the fourth quarter we funded a $4 billion capital program $3.5 billion of which was directed towards E&amp;P.
We also paid $4 billion in shareholder distributions split between $3.1 billion in share repurchases and $900 million in dividends.
This quarter we also reduced debt by $527 million through the retirement of some notes that matured.
And we ended the year with $5.8 billion in cash and $600 million in short-term investments.
So that's looking at our fourth quarter cash flow.
What we'll do on Slide 13 is look at our full year sources and uses of cash.
So if you look at all of 2011 we generated $24 billion between cash from operations asset disposition and the sale of our LUKOIL shares and we reduced our cash and short-term investment position by $4 billion.
The cash from operations number of $19.6 billion in 2011 was $2.6 billion higher than the cash from operations in 2010.
So the cash from operations funded a capital program of $14 billion as well as our dividend of $3.6 billion.
Our asset dispositions of $4.8 billion in 2011 included $1.2 billion from our -- sale of our remaining interest in LUKOIL.
And these proceeds along with cash from our previous asset sales largely funded the $11 billion share repurchase program.
And during the year we also reduced debt by $969 million.
So we'll turn to Slide 14 and look at our capital structure.
At the end of 2011 our equity was down $3 billion compared to the end of 2010 largely as a result of our share repurchase program.
Our debt balance was $22.6 billion which was down $1 billion from the end of 2010.
So that left our debt-to-capital ratio at 26% for the year.
So next we'll move to Slide 15 and talk about some capital efficiency metrics.
2011 return on capital employed is 14% which is up from the 2010 ROCE number of 10% and our cash returned in 2011 was 23% versus 20% in 2010.
The year-over-year improvements in ROCE were primarily driven by increased improved liquids prices and stronger refining margins as well as lower capital employed as a result of our share repurchase program.
So looking at ROCEs on a segment level E&amp;P ROCE improved from 12% to 16% while R&amp;M ROCE improved from 5% to 13%.
The Chemicals segment had a 2011 ROCE of 29% which is up from 22% last year and Midstream was 57% in 2011 up from 34% in 2010.
So that completes the review of our fourth quarter 2011 results and I'd like to next move and talk about and give you an update on our 2010 through 2012 repositioning efforts.
So in late 2009 we laid out plans to reposition ConocoPhillips.
We've made significant progress on these initiatives and plan to largely finish those in 2012.
We've made changes to our portfolio in the past 2 years with $10.7 billion in asset sales and $9.5 billion of proceeds from our sale of our 20% interest in LUKOIL.
Additionally we have reduced refining capacity by about 500 000 barrels per day since the end of 2009.
And we expect to continue an asset sales program of $5 billion to $10 billion during 2012.
We continue to progress our plans to create 2 leading energy companies and we updated the Phillips 66 Form 10 in January and the distribution of the Phillips 66 shares and the completion of that transaction is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2012 possibly as early as May.
Another key part of our 3-year plan is enhancing returns.
As I just discussed our returns improved significantly over this time period and we continue to focus our capital on higher-margin production to help drive margins and returns higher.
We've also focused on improving our financial flexibility and we reduced debt by $6 billion over the last 2 years.
The company's in good financial position today with a debt to cap of 26% and cash and short-term investments of $6 billion.
And we've grown shareholder distributions with $15 billion in share repurchases in 2010 and 2011 with an additional $5 billion to $10 billion plan for 2012 as we continue to execute the asset sales program.
And we remain committed to maintaining a competitive dividend that increases annually.
So we've outlined our plans and you can turn to Slide 17 and see some of the impact that that has on our per-share metrics.
If you look at Slide 17 you see our reserves per share increased 12% from 2010 to 2011 went from 5.7 BOE per share in 2010 to 6.4 BOE per share in 2011.
And our production per share when you adjust for the impact of the events in Libya increased 5% from 2010 to 2011.
And we expect that that will increase this year by another 3% to 5%.
So I'll wrap up with some forward-looking comments before we open up the line to questions.
Some guidance for 2012 starting with our R&amp;M business.
We expect turnaround activity to be about $450 million pretax with about 40% of that activity occurring in the first quarter 2012 and global refining capacity utilization is expected to be in the low 90s in 2012.
In E&amp;P we expect 2012 production to be about 1.6 million BOE per day excluding the impact of any additional asset sales.
And the guidance we would give around the impact of additional asset sales is that could reduce production by 50 000 to 100 000 BOE per day and this production guidance assumes that we have some restoration of our production in Libya and Bohai Bay.
As we announced earlier this week we had 2011 organic reserve replacement of 120%.
Of the organic reserves we added last year less than 10% were from natural gas and Lower 48 in Canada.
We'll report our F&amp;D costs when we file our 10-K in late February but we expect those to be in the $15 to $20 per BOE range.
As we previously indicated our capital budget for 2012 was $15.5 billion and 90% of this will be directed towards E&amp;P.
We expect our 2012 exploration expense to be around $1.2 billion and I'll make a few comments about our progress in developing our exploration portfolio in some core areas.
First in Australia we have plans to commence a 5 to 7 well appraisal program around the Poseidon discovery later this quarter.
In Angola we've officially received our operating licenses for Blocks 36 and 37 and we've committed to a seismic program that's going to begin this quarter.
In the Gulf of Mexico we've participated in the recent deepwater lease sale where ConocoPhillips was a successful bidder representing an expenditure of about $157 million net for 75 blocks in the pale Eugene play.
And we continue to pursue high-quality liquids-rich unconventional opportunities.
In 2011 we added 500 000 acres in North America shale plays in areas that include the Avalon the Wolfcamp the Niobrara and the Lower 48 and the Duvernay and the Canol in Canada.
In the Caspian we expect to spud the Nursultan well later this quarter.
So now I'll shift to our progress in growing our liquids-rich shale business in North America.
That's the Eagle Ford the Bakken the Permian and the Cardium plays.
First at Eagle Ford we are currently running 16 rigs in the play.
We expect to maintain a 16 rig count average and drill about 180 wells in 2012.
Production in late December was around 50 000 BOE per day and we continue to see some impacts from curtailments related to infrastructure constraints as a result of the higher well volumes and the increasing liquid content and just our ongoing development activity.
We would anticipate that average production from the Eagle Ford should grow to around 100 000 BOE per day by the end of 2012.
In the Permian in the Bakken we are running a total of 12 -- 10 rigs and expect to increase this by as much as 50% during 2012.
The fourth quarter production at the Permian and Bakken averaged 50 000 BOE per day and 18 000 BOE per day respectively.
The Permian activities are focused around the Avalon the Wolfberry and the Wolfcamp and we're using both horizontal and vertical drilling techniques there.
So in addition to our efforts on shale we're progressing major projects globally.
During the quarter the APLNG joint venture announced 2 sales agreements that complete the marketing of APLNG's second train with the sanctioning of this train construction expected during first quarter of 2012.
In conjunction with this LNG sale to Sinopec the joint venture partners also agreed to terms which will allow Sinopec to raise their equity interest in the project from 15% to 25%.
In the North Sea the development of our Jasmine field's under way with startup expected later this year.
We expect peak production rates of around 34 000 BOE per day in 2013 from that development.
Our Ekofisk South and Eldfisk 2 projects continue to progress and production from both these projects are expected in 2013 and 2014 respectively.
The Wood River CORE project started operations in mid-November and it's resulting in a 5% increase in the clean product yield at that refinery.
Our Chemicals joint venture plans to build a world scale 1.5 million metric tons per year ethylene cracker and 2 500 000 metric ton per year polyethylene units near its existing Cedar Bayou facility or near a site near the CPChem Sweeny Area facility in Old Ocean Texas.
And the estimated project completion date for these will be 2017.
And our Midstream joint venture has several growth projects underway.
These include developments in Niobrara Permian Eagle Ford and the Granite Wash plays along with logistic opportunities in the Mid-Continent area.
And finally a couple of items from the Corporate perspective.
2012 DD&amp;A is estimated to be similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter this year and Corporate expenses in 2012 are expected to be around $1 billion on an annual basis excluding any onetime impacts related to the repositioning efforts.
So that concludes the prepared remarks so we're ready to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of domestic production questions.
You've had a very good sequential growth in your Lower 48 liquids production.
It looks like throughout this year 10 000 to 14 000 barrels a day quarter-on-quarter growth.
Jeff you mentioned that some of that is working through the backlog though there's still a little bit of a backlog.
How can we think about these numbers over the course of 2012? You've got a big ramp-up in the Eagle Ford coming.
You mentioned the Permian and the Bakken.
Are these the types of sequential growth rates that are doable in your Lower 48 liquids business? Yes so maybe just talking about Eagle Ford so as we mentioned the Eagle Ford is going from we think 50 000 a day to around 100 000 at the end of 2012.
We probably have around 10 000 BOE per day that's held back because of infrastructure constraints.
Research Division</strong> And that number used to be like a 30 kind of number if I'm remembering correctly in terms of backlog production? It comes and goes.
So as we've commented as Eagle Ford continues to ramp up we'll be probably working with infrastructure constraints on through this year and on into 2013.
I think that once we get beyond the 2013 we feel like the infrastructure constraints will be largely behind us.
So if you just looked at Eagle Ford and the Bakken and the Permian maybe those our fourth quarter production from those areas was around 116 000 BOE per day and that was right at 50 000 out of Eagle Ford about 18 000 out of the Permian and -- about 18 000 out of Bakken and 50 000 out of the Permian.
We see that over time that those are going to grow to where they get to be in the 2013 to 2015 time period of over 250 000 to maybe 275 000 BOE per day.
And it's going to just increase just fairly steadily over that time period.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Conversely on the gas side obviously very low gas price too.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about where your gas rig count was in 2011 or where it ended the year whatever metric you have where it's going in 2012? And then what you think that means in terms of what happens to your Lower 48 gas volumes in 2012? Yes I think our Lower 48 gas volumes will continue to decline.
I don't have a...
We've got I think we've got 1 rig running at Lobo which is primarily gas...
Right.
And San Juan's got some liquids with it but we've got 4 rigs running there.
So of the 35 to 40 rigs in the Lower 48.
Right.
Less than 5 of them are really pointing toward gas.
Right.
And I don't think we've got much capital in 2012 allocated towards new gas drilling.
If you look at gas drilling it's in the few hundreds of millions of dollars of our capital program that is addressed towards gas drilling.
And even that level of expenditure given the more recent developments in natural gas pricing is something that we're looking pretty closely at.
Research Division</strong> So would a high single-digit decline rate be a fair number if you're spending essentially no capital on pure gas? That's probably a fair number yes.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I know Arjun just kind of covered natural gas but I had to question that in the past I know during weak gas pricing periods we've seen Conoco shut in production.
I was curious if we're going to hear something on that front this morning.
Is that in the cards here near term? Yes.
Let me talk about -- that's a good question.
Let me talk about gas production.
So our fourth quarter natural gas production in Canada and the Lower 48 was around 2.5 Bcf a day so 400 and maybe a little -- 400 410 MBOE per day.
So if we -- as we look across that portfolio there's probably 2/3 of it which where the economics are really driven by liquids production and not natural gas prices.
So kind of off the top there's a portion of our portfolio which is just not going to make sense to shut in.
Then if you look at -- so maybe 1.5 out of that 2.5 Bcf of natural gas is really associated with liquids production.
Looking at say the remaining Bcf a day some of that we operate some of that they don't operate and we have partners on a lot of that production as well and partners have different views about shut-ins.
But most I think our partners generally not wanting to shut in natural gas and lose the cash flow associated with that.
So we are looking at the portion of our production that we can -- that we kind of control that decision entirely on and think that we will have some shut-ins of natural gas going forward and it's going to be on the order of 100 million cubic feet a day or something like 15 000 to 20 000 BOE per day going forward and we'll continue to watch that as we -- as the year goes on and we see how the natural gas markets develop.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Very helpful.
And the last question I had for you: I was curious if you have any update on Venezuela.
Obviously one of your peers has had a -- I guess you could say less than favorable arbitration results recently and I'm just curious if you have any comments you could make.
Yes so you're referring to the Exxon -- really that got into their ICC arbitration.
So we chose not to pursue ICC arbitration and then chose -- instead chose to pursue exit arbitration which is the World Bank process.
We've been through that hearing.
We're waiting ruling on that which we expect will occur could occur any -- early this year even.
But we can't really be certain of the timing of that.
And we still feel very good about the case we have there.
Again like we said on previous calls with the initial ruling will be a battle will probably not result in a number but will result in kind of the parameters around -- which the number will be calculated and then we'll have a period where that will be done and there'll be a period where appeals can also happen.
So we're still at least 2 or 3 years away from having something that we can collect.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Going back to you gave some numbers on the unconventional volumes in the U.S.
In the Bakken you said you did what about 15 000 barrels a day right now of equipment production? About 18 000.
Research Division</strong> 18 000 okay.
And at Permian you're doing around...
50 000.
Research Division</strong> 15 000 okay.
50 000.
5 0.
50 000.
Research Division</strong> 5 0 okay.
That makes sense.
And then if you can just contrast the Bakken to the Eagle Ford for a second here because in the Eagle Ford you guys are running 16 rigs.
You're doing 50 000 barrels a day going to 100 000.
In the Bakken you're going from 10 to 15 rigs and you're only doing about 18 000.
I mean is -- are the economics that much better in the Eagle Ford for you than in the Bakken? Or is there some sort of a ramp-up period or well backlog that we're waiting for in the Bakken to come online? It's both of those things Faisel.
The economics are better for us in the Eagle Ford than they are in the Bakken so that will have priority as we think about where we're allocating our capital.
We hold our leases in the Bakken on a long-term basis and don't need to do drilling there in order to maintain our acreage position.
So we're taking a very measured approach there.
We don't want to get ahead of infrastructure in the Bakken.
So you'll see us continue to ramp up our activities there.
They're good strong return projects but it's not as strong as what's -- what we have in the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one question on the asset sale program you announced the Colonial sale.
You announced the Seaway sale.
Is there -- are there other logistics assets that you guys are looking to divest of? Or are we still expected from here on out for most of the asset sales to be on the upstream side? Yes I think the upstream sides and we are -- have a marketing process that's going on on 2 refineries right now as well.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
I don't know if I missed this in your prepared remarks Jeff but what is the current status of Bohai Bay? Are you back on stream? Are you allowed to bring it back up and what is its production level if you can help us out first of all? So production levels were down about 30 000 I think we said 33 000 a day in the fourth quarter from our previous levels which was our kind of our 45 000 50 000 level.
15 000 to 20 000 barrels a day.
In the fourth quarter.
So we are working through a process of getting a revised field operating and development plan approved.
We're working that with the relevant agencies in China where we hope to proceed with that as soon as we can.
But we can't really give you guidance on exactly when that's going to occur.
Research Division</strong> So Clayton the numbers are currently at about 15 000 to 20 000.
Is that still a good run rate as we look forward for now? Well I think we could see that actually -- it'll vary during 2012.
It could potentially be lower in the first quarter and then improve as the year goes out.
Yes it's as good as anything that we can give you right now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I hate to pound on the issue of shutting in gas production but if I may just get some clarification there that -- so you're suggesting you could maybe shut in about $100 million a day.
Is that operated or are there third-party production that you might have an interest in as well that might change out further? A little bit of clarity on that would be appreciated Jeff please.
So that's just looking at the things that we operate where we largely control the decision I think...
And that don't have any liquids production.
Because they don't have any significant liquid production or don't have any kind of operational concerns that you have to work through with shutting in.
I think this will be a subject that gets discussed quite a bit between partners all throughout the industry as we go forward.
And that could change if we have persistent low natural gas prices.
But our kind of immediate guidance is that it looks like the numbers we said something on the order of 15 000 to 20 000 BOE per day or around 100 000.
Up to that amount I guess would be more...
Is what it looks like we'll be moving on soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my final one if I can squeeze one more in is just a very quick update please on the infrastructure in the Eagle Ford.
I mean clearly the ramp-up has continued to go very very strong.
So are you managing to keep up with that? And I'll leave it at that.
Yes there are a couple of things that have happened in the fourth quarter.
There's -- so takeaway capacity's increased significantly in the fourth quarter over the third.
There's additional trucks.
There's a new condensate pipeline station which came online in late September.
As Jeff mentioned we have some production curtailment due to infrastructure constraints as a result of well volumes but we're going to work with several companies to increase offtake capacity in the near and long-term and get transportation commitments set up for condensate and also increase or invest in increasing gas gathering and processing capacity.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Clayton can we just talk about the splits? I know you've been fairly specific about this but I just wanted to reconfirm the date for the intended split.
And then I had a question which you may not frankly be able to answer.
But if the cash from operations you talked about in 2011 I think it was $19.6 billion could you separate the upstream and downstream components of that? And perhaps spin forward your latest thoughts on versus whether or not it's a 2011 cash flow whatever else you assume that cycle cash flow would be how the upstream and downstream companies in your latest thinking will be spending money in growing.
You mentioned a major Chemicals project in your prepared remarks for example.
Any further just updates on the split process would be great.
Sure.
I think Jeff mentioned that you see the split occurring in the second quarter as early as May.
I still think that's probably where we want to stay.
Yes so we're progressing well and kind of the things that you're seeing some Form 10s filed and the revisions of those filed.
We're progressing well on our RS.
Research Division</strong> So no major hurdles essentially as far as you can tell? No I think things are progressing well to get in the second quarter and it could happen as early as May.
In terms of your 2011 cash flow question we gave you net income for R&amp;M...
Yes.
So I think so we generated basically $20 billion of cash flow in 2011.
Broadly speaking 80% of that $16 billion or so came from upstream and 20% $4 billion came from downstream.
Yes I've got $3.75 billion in net income from R&amp;M and $850 million in DD&amp;A.
So yes...
From special items.
It's got some special items in it that you have to pull out but we disclose those.
And then you've got also on the cash flow you've got of course the dividends that are coming out of the Chemicals and the Midstream business.
Right.
So I think upstream will be spending its money predominantly on organic growth and we've talked a lot about that what the projects are that are making that up and that we anticipate that we'll be seeing 3% to 4% production growth.
Research Division</strong> Around $15 billion a year for spending? $14 billion.
So we've announced the $15.5 billion capital program for 2012 and that's basically $14 billion upstream and...
Research Division</strong> $1.5 billion? $1.2 billion $1.3 billion downstream and a few couple hundred million of other expenses other expenditures.
So upstream we'll be executing that organic growth program and that's what -- the production increases and as we've -- equally significant the changes are in our portfolio which are going to drive increases in cash margins for BOE are what is -- are the growth drivers for upstream.
And then downstream we'll be...
For downstream there's probably $1 billion or so of capital that goes into the R&amp;M business as far as just keeping our refineries safe and making sure that we've got doing the right things around our refining business.
The excess cash flow coming out of Phillips 66 we're talking internally about where that goes right now whether that's into Chemicals or Midstream ventures.
Those are probably more likely candidates for the free cash flow that comes out of the business.
But we'll be able to provide you with more of our thinking about that before the split.
Research Division</strong> Before May you'll be coming back with a more specific set of go-forward assumptions? Yes the plan -- we're not going to have an -- the typical Analyst Meeting that we have in March we've decided not to have.
But we do plan on meeting with you and with others in the financial community about what our plans are both at Phillips 66 and with ConocoPhillips.
I think both Ryan and Greg will be available to the Street and we'll -- we haven't scheduled that.
But think about a March or April timeframe when we'll be out there and be able to fill you in a bit more on what our thinking is.
Research Division</strong> Just one I guess the main issue in my mind Clayton and Jeff is the buyback and just can you remind us what happens with the buyback at once we've split how that works going forward? So we are -- we talked about asset sales of $5 billion to $10 billion and that's pretty heavily weighted to the upstream side of the business and going forward when we said that share repurchases will generally kind of track along with that which says that we are continuing to buy shares currently not at the same rates that we were buying them last year.
But we're going -- so you'll see first quarter that there'll be some buybacks that occur actually in the first quarter.
Then the pace of buybacks will depend upon the pace of our asset sales program and that really goes for ConocoPhillips both before and after the split of the downstream company.
And the downstream company as Clayton mentioned they'll be out -- will be out before the split talking more about how we're going to be allocating cash in that business.
Yes the thinking at least right now around use of cash in Phillips 66 post-split I would say we've prioritized the first couple of billion or so towards debt reduction versus share repurchase.
But those decisions have yet to be made.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's great.
I think you've given me enough pieces there to fit it again together.
Which is very finally Clayton on the asset sales within Phillips 66 could you -- is there any update on I think it was Alliance and Trainer that were publicly known to be out there? Yes I think we don't really have updates.
I think data rooms are open I think we're -- indicative bids are -- the deadline's coming up and we'll take a look at what comes in and then make our decisions going forward.
We don't have anything to add from what we already talked about earlier on Trainer or Alliance.
Research Division</strong> But news shortly? If -- maybe.
Our next question comes from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things if I could.
Did the endeavor sale of the U.K.
assets close in the fourth quarter? First quarter was it...
No that's still yet to close.
Right.
Did not close.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay anything going on with respect to the Vietnam sale? There've been a lot of talk in the trades about bids that you've received yet haven't heard much of anything in terms of discussions coming to a conclusion.
Yes I think we're going to give you the same answer we've been giving you on asset sales as we just are working through a lot of different processes and we -- it's not helpful to us to try to have a lot of information out until we get kind of to a finishing point on those.
So not -- I'm afraid there's not much we can update on you -- update you on there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the Eagle Ford production numbers Jeff and Clayton that you talked about still running about 70% liquids? And do you expect as the numbers build to maintain that kind of liquids ratio? Yes I think we see more like 75% liquids and yes that is our expectation going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> You think you'll hold it at that level? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And of course Mark I think the classification for the liquids there are -- is retrograde condensate is the term that's used internally to describe those liquids.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm not sure what you mean by that Clayton.
The volume just has [indiscernible].
LLC Research Division</strong> As opposed to NGL you mean? Well no this is -- I mean it is -- there's an NGL component but it's primarily condensate.
It's a high-value liquid.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
All right.
And in terms of the LIFO item if I can call it that in the fourth quarter can I assume that's entirely U.S.
that it's an after-tax figure and that it's included in your recorded and published refining margin? Yes it is.
Yes.
It's all U.S.
and all -- it is after-tax and it is included.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one final one for me.
There's been a fair amount of talk -- this isn't actually asset sales-oriented but I've seen a fair amount of talk that you may be seeking partners either for your Eagle Ford activities and/or your Canadian oil sands outside of the partnerships with Synovus.
Can you comment on the veracity of that? So we intend to pursue Eagle Ford as 100% development going forward.
So I hadn't heard that one but we can tell you that there's nothing behind that.
We are investigating options for our oil sands properties outside of the Foster Creek Christina Lake joint venture.
We think there's quite a bit of interest in properties like that.
So we're going -- we'll do some things to find out how the market would value those and make our decisions going forward based on what we find out.
But we would intend to maintain interest in the properties outside of FCCL.
It's just a question whether we might -- would it be value to bringing in a partner to develop those.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Jeff that would include Surmont? Yes it would include Surmont.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay final one for me excluding the WRB partnership give me a rough idea of the WTI reference priced crude that you ran in the fourth quarter taking the partnership out of the equation.
This is fourth quarter WTI? LLC Research Division</strong> The fourth quarter WTI reference x WRB? X Borger and Wood River is going to be -- I think it's going to be around 200 000 barrels a day but let us check our numbers.
Including those 2 it's somewhere between 450 000 and 500 000.
So I just have to back out what Borger and Wood River represent.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay well that's pretty much 100% on those 2 isn't it? If WTI reference if you include WCS is WTI reference crude? Yes and we have half of Borger and half of Wood River so that's what? That's 350 000 or 250 000? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes something like that.
250 000.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean the math seems to work.
It's 200 000 to 250 000 something like that.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Several quick questions.
Jeff you say $180 million of the inventory gain pretax number.
Should we just assume a 35% tax rate? That's probably a good assumption yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the Bohai Bay the press release talking about the settlement with the compensation fund.
Is that settled or the lawsuit update or that there's other things that are still pending we should be aware? So the settlement is for the fisheries that were potentially impacted by the spill which is the primary issue that we were dealing with.
So we -- that's probably about all we can say at that point we don't know if there will be others -- other things beyond that.
Research Division</strong> How about from the regulator I think that they have fined you guys some small amount? I presume that based on the Chinese law that there's really no other major potential fine that we should expect from the regulator right? So I think Paul all we can really say at this point is we think that the settlement we just announced last night is an important step forward and it resolves kind of the most pressing issues that are out there and we're just going to need to move forward with the process with the authorities there and there's not a lot else we can comment on at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Jeff what is the Libyan production right now for you guys? Libyan production...
Is around 20 000 barrels a day.
Research Division</strong> Net to you? Net to us yes that's right.
So that's our share of the Waha concession.
We've got what 16… 16.33% at… At Waha? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And Jeff when looking at your financial statement you have about $1.2 billion $1.3 billion of the deferred tax cash contribution in 2011.
Is that all contributed from the IDC deduction in the U.S.
or does it relate to other things also? No really it doesn't.
It's primarily related to timing differences between tax depreciation and financial depreciation.
Research Division</strong> So that's not related to IDC? IDC could be a small portion of that number but it's not a big number for us.
Research Division</strong> It's a small portion.
And once that is spin off the treatment for the IDC deduction is going to change.
Currently you are deducting what 50% or 75%? Paul I'd have to get back to you.
We don't -- it's not a very high percentage of that number because of the category that we fall in.
It's different rules for different size producers.
And then even going forward it's a complex set of rules upon -- that depend -- that will determine which category you fall into.
And we could be still considered and integrated by some of those measures even going forward because we have things like fractionation capacity and some of our processing up in the North Slope.
So it's not as clear-cut as just kind of saying that we move from one category to another.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you currently based on your best guess is that you may not change that much for you? Yes I'm not sure that we see that that's a significant change for us.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And that Clayton is it possible that if you can share that what is the benefit in 2011 for you guys from the cash flow standpoint related to the IDC deduction? So...
We don't know that number off the top of our heads.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So I mean if at some -- I mean that if you find it can you just e-mail me? We can work that up.
Research Division</strong> That would be great.
Final one the APLNG the Sinopec interest increased to 25%.
Last time when the opted in there was a waiver.
Should we assume the asset we sold that carrying costs for you guys is already now at a level that increase in the interest in [indiscernible] is not going to change in your carrying value? Yes so we'll be working that as we go forward.
It depends some -- on some exactly when the whole transaction ends up closing.
We will have an additional write-down on APLNG when that transaction closes.
It won't be of the same magnitude of what we had before.
And right now we'd say that's in the neighborhood of $100 million.
Research Division</strong> $100 million? Right.
Our next question comes from Philip Weiss from Argus Research.
Just a couple of quick questions.
The North America acreage acquisition that you mentioned any color on how much or where those were? They were -- we're kind of reluctant to just give kind of exactly what was where.
But it's in the areas we mentioned which are the Duvernay the Canol Avalon Wolfcamp Niobrara and some other areas.
It was probably 2/3 Canadian 1/3 Lower 48 acreage and it was all targeting plays which we believe are liquids-rich plays and not gas plays.
There was some public disclosures on the Ute license round at Wolfcamp but we haven't given a lot of detail yet because we're not finished -- not  finished buying.
Okay.
The exploration expense any dry hole charges you can identify in the quarter? Let's see I think we got this.
So we had what $141 million dry hole expense in E&amp;P for the quarter? I think that's the number.
But I don't -- think there was -- well I just don't -- we can get back to you on that one Phil.
I don't know where those were.
But obviously it was higher in the fourth quarter than it was in the rest of the year.
But we can come back and let you know where those dry hole expenses took place.
Okay and then last one there's just something I'm a little bit confused about.
When I look at the financial statement information that you gave that showed impairments in the fourth quarter of $304 million.
But then when you have the special items the impairments were like $695 million and I didn't understand why that was.
So are you looking at Page 3 on the special items page on the supplement? Yes.
And the question is what? E&amp;P impairments or.
.
.
Well if I look at the consolidated income statement it shows impairments of $304 million.
And then if you look at Page 3 just for E&amp;P for international E&amp;P impairments it's $585 million and for U.S.
it's $44 million so that's $629 million and I think there was -- I think the total number when you did your whole reconciliation was $695 million.
Yes let us do some -- let me come back to you on that one.
I'll give you a call this afternoon.
Yes I'm not sure where we put in that $304 million number on the phase of income statement.
Our next question comes from Daniela Almeida from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Iain Reid actually from Jefferies over in London.
Just a couple of questions please.
Firstly on the oil sands just on your oil sands disposal can you say why it's Surmont you're looking to reduce your interest in rather than the FCCL joint venture? Is it just because of the fact that it's a joint venture that's tied up with the refining? Or is there kind of a specific reason why it's Surmont and the other assets rather than that? So I think we looked at the Surmont project and our remaining assets and complying with the FCCL and thinking of the size of oil sands in our portfolio and also the values that people attribute to properties that are kind of out in the marketplace right now I think it makes sense to just find out what value the market would ascribe to that.
It's most straightforward to do that on the Surmont project.
But it's not just Surmont it's the Thornberry pipe and Sulesky acreage that we have as well that we would consider doing something with as a package.
And FCCL I think we would probably look at as more of part of our portfolio and good economics and something that's going to generate growth for us over a longer period of time and good returns.
I think most people look at FCCL as probably the premier oil sands assets.
And so it could be that TCS and Surmont won't be able to generate the types of returns that FCCL can.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I wonder whether your thoughts have changed or progressed in terms of LNG exports now you've seen these deals signed up in the Gulf coast for the [indiscernible] with intent to build.
Is that something that -- which you might look at again or put more emphasis on given the sort of substantial amounts of U.S.
gas that you're producing? Or will be producing? I think it's something we are going to continue to study.
It's really not just a thinking about it from the perspective of Lower 48 natural gas production.
But as we think about to what long-term alternatives are for Canadian gas production.
And importantly as we think about what alternatives could be for development of the North Slope gas in Alaska.
Those are all things that we'll be investigating whether liquefaction and export and natural gas makes sense going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one just coming back.
There's $180 million of inventory liquidation.
Can we assume that that is all associated with the shutdown of Trainer and the associated tankage and pipes et cetera? A large part of it was Trainer -- things we had in inventory in the Seaway Products pipeline.
For example we sold some terminals during the year that had inventory as well.
So Trainer made it with the largest single component of that but it wasn't all related to Trainer.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So this wasn't a kind of an inventory price adjustment? This was a real liquidation and exit from that? Yes that we reduced our inventories kind of across the system by about 10 million barrels during the year.
Our final question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions here on the quarter.
Just a follow-up on the last question on the inventory liquidation I mean is there any quantification on what is coming back what is year-end related that we should see back in 1Q? In terms of building inventory? Research Division</strong> That's right.
Probably not.
You're saying what our inventories levels will return to? Research Division</strong> That's right.
If there's anything I know there's some that's some inventory liquidation but if some was into taking inventories down into year end if something would come back in 1Q at an offset.
Yes so I mean we have inventories related to our system and then we have some inventories that we take on as kind of more of a systems optimization trading type operations.
We'll bring some of those back on in the first quarter.
But I don't think we have the number that we can give you as guidance right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the change in the Corporate charge $151 million I mean can you deconstruct that a little bit just so again the same to understand better what's recurring? I presume that the ForEx element would be a nonrecurring change.
Yes.
The ForEx is a nonrecurring change and you can see in our supplemental information that that was $45 million to $50 million of that difference.
We changed the -- in our comments you probably picked up we were saying Corporate costs we would say going forward are more of a $1 billion per year run rate and we're $250 million a quarter.
I think our previous guidance was more like $275 million a quarter.
So just interest costs lower being a driver of that.
Capitalized interest.
And then yes capitalized interest was a little bit higher than we initially anticipated it was going to be.
So that -- I think those are the major drivers of it.
So ForEx is a big part of that which is not a -- which is going to be changed from quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
Angola block payment was that included in 4Q? No it was a first quarter 2012 item.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned Chevron Phillips.
You guys were conducting the study for the 3 billion ton Gulf Coast I think cracker.
What were the key dates in 2012 in that project? I mean when will we get -- be more specifics on cost and FID dates timing et cetera? Yes so I'm not sure exactly when we go FID on it.
I know well to answer your question I guess we'll give you more information on that in late March early April when we come out and start talking about the sources of growth for Phillips 66.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly can you just follow up on the buyback.
I mean does the -- does your buyback guidance in '12 contemplate the $5.8 billion distribution related to the leveraging on Phillips 66 because that would impact the kind of timing of available cash? I don't think the intent is to use -- how they intend to use Phillips 66 back for debt reduction primarily.
Yes so primarily.
So we're talking about...
Research Division</strong> All right I got you.
At the Conoco level.
Yes.
So we'll have it's like roughly $6 billion of proceeds come in from the distribution as we contemplated it now.
And we'll probably use -- we've targeted at taking our ConocoPhillips debt level down to around $18 billion; at the end of the year $22.5 billion.
So we're going to use $4.5 billion of that to reduce debt.
So there will be some that goes into the cash from that distribution.
But the thinking on share repurchases is really Evan think about share repurchase as being funded the asset sales.
That's really what's going -- that's what's going to fund that activity.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then based upon at least the bid dates you're hopeful that the 2 refining asset sales would be -- could be received prior to distribution? I think it's probably -- no I don't think that we would give you that impression.
There'll be things to work through on refinery sales which will probably take those post -- post-bid.
So I guess that was the last question.
Kim appreciate you lining those up for us and appreciate everybody participating on the call.
You can find our material again on our website.
I look forward to talking with you in the near future.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2012 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Clayton Reasor Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Reasor you may begin.
Thank you Kim.
Well good morning and welcome to ConocoPhillips' First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call our final conference call as an integrated company.
Today we'll focus on key financial and operating results for the first quarter as well as our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
I'm joined by Jeff Sheets Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
As in the past you can find our presentation material on the Investor Relations section of the ConocoPhillips website.
And in addition you can also find some presentation material that we've recently put out on each of the stand-alone companies ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement on the bottom of this slide.
It's a reminder that we will be making forward-looking statements during the presentation and during the question-and-answer session.
Actual results may differ materially from what we expect today.
And factors that could cause actual results to differ are included here as well as in our filings with the SEC.
So that said I'll turn the call over to Jeff to take you through our first quarter results.
Thanks Clayton.
I'll start with some highlights for the first quarter.
During the quarter we had adjusted earnings of $2.6 billion.
That's $2.02 a share.
This is flat with the prior quarter and up from $1.82 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
If you look back in the first quarter of 2011 we had the same level of earnings that we did in the last quarter but we saw a $0.20 per share improvement and that reflects the impact of our ongoing share repurchase program.
Our annualized return on capital employed was 12%.
We generated $4.2 billion in cash from operations.
That's $3.23 a share.
In E&amp;P our production was $1.64 million BOE per day which is 3% higher than the fourth quarter of 2011.
And if you compare that to the first quarter of 2011 our production per share increased by 9%.
So we had seasonally strong refining utilization of 91% globally.
And during the quarter we closed the sale of our interest in Vietnam and we funded $1.9 billion in share repurchases and that brings the total of share repurchases since we started the program in 2010 to around $17 billion.
And as of today we're about a week away from the distribution of the Phillips 66 shares to our shareholders and we're executing the remaining steps of this transaction this week and right on target to complete on the 1st of May.
So let's turn to Slide 3 and look at our earnings in more detail.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $2.9 billion.
This includes gains on asset sales of $987 million offset by $562 million of impairments and $95 million of repositioning costs.
The gains were mostly related to the sale of Vietnam business and the impairments were primarily related to the Mackenzie Gas Project and the associated leaseholds.
Adjusted earnings of $2.6 billion were flat with the first quarter last year.
But as I mentioned they were 10% higher on a per share basis as a result of our share repurchase program.
E&amp;P adjusted earnings were $2.1 billion and R&amp;M adjusted earnings were $444 million during the first quarter and our other segments together provided an additional $32 million of earnings.
But Chemicals had a record quarter and we're going to provide more details about that later in the presentation.
So next we'll look at some more detail on our segment earnings and we'll start with E&amp;P production which is on Slide 4.
Our first quarter production was 1.64 million BOE per day.
That's down 65 000 BOE per day from the first quarter last year.
If you exclude the impacts of dispositions and the suspension of our operations at the Peng Lai Field in Bohai Bay production would have been 9 000 BOE per day more than a year ago.
Our growth opportunities are performing well and we continue to execute on our plans to exploit the unconventional resources in the Eagle Ford Bakken Permian and oil sands.
Our unconventional plays have contributed 85 000 BOE per day compared to a year ago.
These growth opportunities are part of the 47 000 BOE increase shown on the slide.
We also had less downtime and a slightly increased production from Libya which improved production.
And these improvements more than offset our normal field declines.
The suspended operations at Peng Lai combined with asset dispositions and the decline in our Russia and Naryanmarneftegaz production reduced production by about 94 000 BOE per day.
And on the natural gas side compared to the first quarter of 2011 North American natural gas production was 18 000 BOE per day lower with about half of that coming from curtailments.
Now I'll turn to the E&amp;P earnings on Slide 5.
E&amp;P results benefited from strong crude prices.
However the strength in crude prices was offset by weakness in North American natural gas markets and as well as NGL prices and a widening spread between crude oil and bitumen prices.
Our E&amp;P adjusted earnings for the quarter were $2.1 billion slightly lower than the first quarter last year.
As this Slide 5 illustrates $156 million of after-tax impact.
We had that due to higher prices and other market factors and that was offset by about $225 million decrease associated with lower volumes.
In the U.S.
earnings in the first quarter of 2012 were $158 million higher than a year ago.
This reflects the improvement in domestic crude prices but this was offset by significantly lower Henry Hub gas prices.
Henry Hub averaged $2.72 this quarter which is 34% lower than it was a year ago.
Year-over-year we saw reduced earnings in our international business.
International was impacted this quarter by lower crude sales volumes and again significantly lower gas prices in Canada.
ACO prices averaged $2.15 per million Btu this quarter which is 44% lower than a year ago.
So let's move to Slide 6 and I'll talk about some of our E&amp;P unit metrics.
As we just discussed on the previous slide we saw strong crude prices but this was offset by weakness in North American natural gas NGL prices and the widening bitumen differentials.
We produced around 110 000 barrels per day of NGLs in North America in the first quarter and margins on this production were impacted by the fact that NGL prices did not move up as crude prices moved up.
In addition our first quarter results were adversely impacted by about $85 million after tax from differences between production and sales volumes and some other timing impacts.
So year-over-year these timing impacts and the weakness in natural gas and the relative weakness of NGLs and bitumen prices along with some higher taxes kept per barrel margins flat with the same quarter a year ago.
So although we saw this disconnect between NGL and bitumen prices and crude prices in the recent quarter this doesn't change our long-term view about our ability to grow cash margins as we shift capital towards higher margin production.
As we've mentioned in our recent investor updates we expect cash margins to grow 3% to 5% per year over the next 5 years in a flat price environment.
So that completes our E&amp;P segment results.
Now let's take a look at our R&amp;M segment results which are on Slide 7.
First quarter R&amp;M adjusted earnings were -- of $444 million were $36 million less than the same period a year ago.
And in comparing the periods R&amp;M earnings were negatively impacted primarily by lower refining margins and some higher turnaround expenses.
This was offset by higher earnings from volumes and improved marketing margins in the U.S.
And we ran higher volumes at some of our Mid-Continent refineries where the margins were the strongest.
So overall despite improved market crack spreads refining margins decreased primarily due to less favorable crude differentials in Europe and the Gulf East and West Coast regions and some lower secondary product margins.
But turnaround expenses were $176 million pretax and that's in line with our expectations.
So we can move to the next slide and look at the R&amp;M per barrel metrics.
First quarter 2012 income per barrel was $1.80 and the cash contribution was $2.62.
The per barrel metrics for R&amp;M were similar to a year ago and up compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Compared to the fourth quarter of '11 R&amp;M benefited from both a more favorable crude differentials and improved market crack spreads which together drove significantly improved refining margins and higher adjusted earnings.
So we continue to look for ways to improve our margins in this space through capturing more advantaged crudes and increasing clean product yield.
Our clean product yield of 84% was flat with the prior quarter and 1% improved compared to the same period a year ago.
Wood River drove about 40% of this improvement in the clean product yield post the core implementation in the fourth quarter 2011.
Next we'll take a look at some of the results from our other operating segments on Slide 9.
Adjusted earnings increased in both our Chemicals and Midstream segments.
Chemicals' earnings were $218 million during the quarter.
This record quarter reflects a very strong margin environment.
Industry margins for ethylene during the first quarter were among the highest recorded in 20 years.
With domestic ethylene utilization rates north of 100% CPChem was able to capture these margins.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 Chemicals' earnings improved by $25 million due primarily to higher olefins and polyolefins margins and volumes which were partially offset by lower margins in volumes and specialties aromatics and styrenics.
Midstream earnings of $93 million were more than 25% over a year ago primarily due to higher gathering and processing volumes.
In the first quarter of 2011 we had significant reductions due to severe weather which we didn't see in the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted corporate expenses were $265 million for the first quarter of 2012.
That's $39 million improved compared to a year ago primarily due to lower net interest expense and benefit-related expenses.
Excluded from these adjusted corporate expenses are about $95 million in repositioning costs.
Let's go to Slide 10 and look at our cash flow for the first quarter.
We generated $4.2 billion in cash from operations during the quarter and closed the sale of our Vietnam business unit resulting in proceeds of a little over $1 billion.
During the first quarter we funded a $4.4 billion capital program.
$4.2 billion of that was directed to E&amp;P and around $200 million to R&amp;M.
And E&amp;P capital for the quarter included over $500 million in exploration in Gulf of Mexico leaseholds.
I want to explain an impact on our cash flow having to do with how we account for assets that we will be selling later in the year and that we've moved to a held-for-sale category during the second quarter.
The impact of that is that in our -- when you look at the other line in our other cash -- in the cash flow from operation segment you'll see a negative.
And $450 million of this negative was reflected -- was as a result of moving assets to a held-for-sale category.
This was offset by a $450 million positive that is in the working capital line.
So were it not for these changes you would have seen a working capital for the quarter that was negative by about that amount.
If you look across all the segments almost all the cash from operations -- really all of the cash from operations this quarter came from our E&amp;P operations.
R&amp;M cash from operations were consumed by working capital changes.
In our Chemicals joint venture the -- CPChem has begun retaining cash in order to fund a complete retirement of their debt balances later this year.
We also paid $2.7 billion in shareholder distributions.
That's split between the $1.9 billion of share repurchases and $843 million in dividends and these share repurchases accounted for $25 million shares during the quarter.
We ended the quarter with $4.2 billion in cash and short-term investments.
And related to the repositioning we issued $5.8 billion in senior notes at Phillips 66.
These notes bear a weighted average pretax cost of 4.1%.
Associated with this issuance we are currently holding a restricted cash balance of $6.1 billion in addition to the $4.2 billion in cash and short-term investments.
As part of the separation the notes will transfer to Phillips 66 and ConocoPhillips will receive a cash distribution from Phillips 66 of approximately $6 billion.
Turning to Slide 11 we'll talk about our capital structure.
At the end of the first quarter our equity balance was $67 billion up $1 billion from year-end 2011.
With income largely offsetting distributions the equity increase is primarily related to foreign exchange impacts.
Our debt balance increased reflecting the Phillips 66 debt I just discussed.
And if you adjust that out our debt to cap is 25% for the quarter.
I'll move to Slide 12 and talk about some capital efficiency metrics.
First quarter 2012 annualized returns on capital were 12% which is flat from a year ago.
If you break this down by segment first quarter returns were 14 -- ROCEs were 14% in E&amp;P 9% in R&amp;M 50% in Midstream and 31% in Chemicals.
This is a metric we're going to continue to focus on as we invest in higher margin assets across our portfolio and they'll be a key initiatives for both companies going forward.
So I will wrap up with some outlook comments and then we'll open the line for questions.
So we're going to give guidance first for ConocoPhillips and then for Phillips 66.
So starting with ConocoPhillips our annual production guidance for 2012 remains unchanged at 1.55 million to 1.6 million BOE per day and that depends on the timing of dispositions.
Sequentially in the second quarter production will be down from the first quarter.
Second quarter production will include turnaround and maintenance activity of 50 000 to 60 000 BOE per day primarily in Australia the U.K.
Alaska and our Foster Creek Christina Lake joint venture in Canada.
And production in the second quarter will also be negatively impacted by 20 000 to 30 000 BOE per day related to dispositions including the recent Vietnam disposal.
In the Peng Lai Field in Bohai Bay current gross production is 40 000 BOE per day and should continue at this level through the second quarter.
We also expect continued gas shut-ins in North America of around 9 000 BOE per day due to low gas prices and we continue to evaluate this for a further shut-in.
And our full year capital guidance for the E&amp;P is approximately $15 billion.
So I'll shift now and talk about exploration.
We expect exploration expenses to be in line with our previous guidance of $1.2 billion for the year as we continue to progress our exploration portfolio in several core areas.
In Australia we indicated last quarter that we plan to commence a 5- to 7-well appraisal program around our Poseidon discovery.
The Boreas 1 well spud on April 4 which is the first well in that appraisal drilling.
In Angola our seismic program has commenced and recent discoveries in the area confirmed the exploration potential.
We expect drilling to start in 2013 or later.
In Bangladesh Blocks 10 and 11 we completed seismic activity in the first quarter this year and we're analyzing the data.
We have 1.4 million acres and 100% working interest in this opportunity.
In the Gulf of Mexico we expect to spud an exploration well in the second or third quarter this year to test the Coronado prospect and the operators at Shenandoah and Tiber are anticipating appraisal wells in 2012.
In our international shale plays we exercised the co-option for a 70% operating interest in a 5 000-acre position in the Western Baltic Basin of Poland.
We have a co-option this year on the remaining 572 000-acre position.
We drilled 2 horizontal wells and continue -- in 2011 and we will continue our pilot program in 2012.
We plan to start up the first phase of our program in the frontier shale play in the Canning Basin in Australia and we should commence 3 vertical wells in mid-2012.
In North America we've initiated 7 pilot programs in some of our new emerging plays in the Niobrara Wolfcamp Avalon Canol and Duvernay plays.
And we continue to pursue high-quality liquids-rich unconventional opportunities globally.
Now some updates on our major growth projects around the world.
Efforts continue to drill our liquids-rich shale plays in North America in the Eagle Ford the Bakken the Permian and the Cardium plays.
At Eagle Ford we expect to maintain a 16-rig average and drill about 180 wells in 2012.
First quarter production averaged 54 000 BOE per day and current production capacity is around 60 000.
It will be our priority to stay ahead of condensate takeaway capacity to reduce any further curtailments.
And system constraints are now primarily related to gas takeaway capacity in construction and some other infrastructure.
In the Permian and Bakken we are running a total of 13 rigs today 5 more rigs than last -- this time last year.
We expect to average 16 rigs during 2012.
First quarter production at Permian and Bakken averaged 51 000 and 24 000 BOE per day respectively.
Our SAGD projects continue to grow production.
As you've seen bitumen production from SCCL increased 11 000 BOE per day from the first quarter of last year.
And we're exploring further opportunities to achieve better netback pricing such as improving the blend ratio alternatives to synthetic and condensate distilluants [ph] and application of new technologies.
We expect to sanction the second train of APLNG during the second quarter and are currently on track to deliver our first cargo in mid-2015.
And we are in the Phase 1 development of the Jasmine projects in the U.K.
and 2 of the 8 project wells were drilled.
And so far subsurface results are exceeding our expectations.
Jasmine production should start in 2013.
And finally for ConocoPhillips we are targeting $8 billion to $10 billion in asset dispositions over the next 12 months.
We expect to repurchase 5 billion of shares in the first half of 2012 and the timing of additional share repurchases will depend on the timing of the dispositions.
So now I'll turn and give some outlook on some items for Phillips 66 going forward.
In R&amp;M we expect turnaround activity in the second quarter to be approximately $140 million pretax and global refining capacity utilization is anticipated to be in the low 90s.
The majority of the turnaround activity is expected to be in our international operations next quarter.
And we reiterate our full year guidance of around $450 million pretax for turnaround expenses.
With the Wood River CORE project online we're seeing a 5% increase in clean product yields at the refinery.
And if you look at our WRB joint venture with Synovis realized over $200 million gross profit uplift from the core project during the first quarter of 2012.
Next I'll turn to a discussion of some of the growth projects in the Phillips 66 Midstream and Chemicals businesses.
In Midstream DCP has several growth projects underway.
These include developments in the Niobrara Permian Eagle Ford Bakken and Granite Wash plays along with logistic opportunities in the Mid-Continent region.
DCP recently announced an agreement to construct a new NGL pipeline that will originate in the Denver-Julesburg Basin in Weld County Colorado and extend approximately 435 miles to Skellytown Texas in Carson County.
The new front-range pipeline with connections to the Mid-America pipeline system and the recently announced Texas Eastern pipeline will help producers in the DJ Basin maximize the value of their NGL production by providing takeaway capacity and market access to the Gulf Coast.
In addition DCP is also building a Sand Hills NGL pipeline to provide additional NGL takeaway capacity in the Permian and Eagle Ford.
In Chemicals CPChem announced additional fractionation capacity of 30 000 to 40 000 BOE per day -- barrels per day at Sweeny.
CPChem is progressing with one of its affiliates in Saudi Arabia to build a manufacturing facility that will produce olefins polyolefins and alpha olefins.
Production is expected to begin in the second quarter of this year and CPChem has a 35% interest in this JV.
CPChem also plans to construct a 1-hexene plant on the U.S.
Gulf Coast with a capacity of 440 million pounds per year.
Start-up is expected in 2014.
CPChem continues to progress plans for construction of a $5 billion worldscale ethylene cracker at Cedar Bayou Texas.
A final investment decision is expected either later this year or early in 2013 and that facility would take about 4 years to construct following a final investment decision.
We have -- and then finally for Phillips 66 we have 2 of our refineries on the market.
Due to the increased -- due to interest from potential buyers we're extending the timing for our trainer disposition to late May and we also continue to market the Alliance refinery.
So that concludes our remarks on ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66.
As I mentioned earlier the company's on target to complete its repositioning in the 2 independent leading energy companies on the 1st of May.
We’d like to direct you to look at our Investor Relations website for the recent presentations given by Ryan Lance for ConocoPhillips and Greg Garland for Phillips 66.
So that concludes the prepared remarks and we're ready to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Doug Terreson from ISI.
Research Division</strong> So you guys have covered a lot the past few Mondays but in E&amp;P and specifically in exploration Jeff you mentioned Poland and Bangladesh along with a host of others.
And so I just wanted to see what the drilling plan was for those 2 countries during the next 12 months or so.
It seems like there's momentum there.
And also any commentary that you may have on recent exploration development activities in China.
In Bangladesh it's too early for us.
We're just in the seismic phase right now so we don't have -- too early for us to really give any thoughts around drilling programs there.
In Poland we're going to continue at kind of the pace we are at and to try to further delineate that play.
But it will be relatively low levels of expenditure there going forward.
On Bohai Bay we are in the process of going through a ramp-up of production to the levels that have been approved by the authorities.
We're still in the process of working through the long-term development plan for the field.
That's going to take us up to around 40 000 BOE per day.
It's about 19 000 or so net to ConocoPhillips at Bohai Bay.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I have a number of kind of small questions.
On the bitumen pricing for upstream it looked like your equity affiliates pricing was much lower than your consolidated operations.
And I guess historically that number has always been much higher.
I suspect that's because of the joint venture with Synovis.
If you could just elaborate a little bit on what's going on there.
Why has the pricing shifted now to a discount versus your consolidated operations? I think you probably see those move back and forth over time and I wouldn't assume that there's going to be a discount on all of them going forward.
There was a particularly wide WTI WCS differential in the first quarter which we've seen close somewhat in the first month of the second quarter.
We're getting an increased production from Christina Lake which is also has a little bit higher transportation differences as well.
But as I said I think you will see -- we don't expect to see differentials as wide as what we saw this quarter.
Or I think you can also expect that over time you'll see similar realizations from both the consolidated and the nonconsolidated.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then on Alaska too it seemed like given the production and pricing in Alaska that your earnings in Alaska were clearly higher than it's been in the past.
Could you also give us a little bit more color on what's driving that? Sorry to bog you down with small questions.
Yes.
That may be one way.
We might have to circle back.
But … Yes I mean generally in Alaska there's a couple of factors which can affect kind of quarter-to-quarter.
There's a bit of a pricing lag on some of the crude.
So in a rising market that can have a difference.
And then of course the tax regime in Alaska when you get up to these kinds of oil prices that takes as a very high marginal take to you -- take.
But I guess as Clayton says we can get back to you again with that.
[Indiscernible] more detail on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question to me I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks that CPChem is investing more capital on its operations this year.
So they're retaining more of their cash flows that was allocated for distributions? Is that the same for DCP? So if you can just give a little more color how those distributions from CPChem and DCP would be for the year.
So yes I think maybe I'll -- let me clarify and make sure that I was clear on what we said about CPChem.
You are correct in that both of them have good opportunities to invest capital.
But generally we would think that distributions will be coming out of both of those joint ventures they can more than fund their capital programs with cash flows.
What's unique at CPChem currently is that we are -- we've made the decision to essentially delever CPChem and pay off their debt balances post the spin happening.
So CPChem is not making any distributions to either of the partners currently.
So the record earnings that they saw in the first quarter were all retained at CPChem.
That'll put CPChem in a position later this year where they have a cash balance sufficient to pay off the debt at CPChem and then I think we would start to see some distributions from that joint venture.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And is it the same thing with DCP or what? Can you give us more detail on that too? No.
I think we actually -- we continue to see distributions out of DCP the cash flow there.
My understanding Faisel is that the funding for DCP expansion about 2/3 of that financing comes from dropping assets down into the MLP inside of DCP DPM.
And about 1/3 of the funding of their expansion comes from either noncash expenses like DNA or from about let's say 10% of their net income or any cash they have on the balance sheet.
So they're expecting to continue to dividend out cash as well as fund their expansion programs.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess some clarifications then a question on CapEx in SAGD.
Firstly just on that $450 million in the held-for-sale category.
So if we were trying to think of sort of cash flow before working capital would $4.6 billion be closer to the right number to use? That's right.
So were it not for that we would have seen about -- when you look at our supplemental information you'll see that working capital is basically a push for the quarter.
So were it not for that reclassification you would have had about a $500 million use of cash from working capital.
But if you're looking at cash flow before the working capital changes what you said is correct.
Research Division</strong> And then on CapEx obviously if we take in the upstream the sort of $4.15 billion take out $500 million for leaseholds multiply it by 4 rack [ph] back the leaseholds you get to about $15.1 million.
And normally CapEx in the upstream companies tends to be a bit back-end weighted.
So just trying to see what might be different this year in terms of being able to hit the $15 billion of guidance.
I think what's different this year is it's not back-end loaded.
We had as many of you mentioned the large leasehold acquisitions.
We also had a fairly high spend level at the APLNG project in the first quarter as well.
And we're running a pretty consistent spin through our unconventional developments like the Eagle Ford.
So you won't see the same level of back-end loading in our capital program this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final question on SAGD CapEx the presentation that Lance gave last week it was a $2.3 billion spend in SAGD.
As we focus in a little bit more granularly on some of these assets can you maybe just talk through what the sort of run rate or spends you'd have on the SAGD would be going forward if there's any lumpiness to it or trends? Yes so I need to break that into a couple of pieces there Ed.
So if you look at how we fund the Foster Creek Christina Lake joint venture it goes back to how the venture was set up to start with where we are making payments into the SCCL joint venture of -- it's around $800 million or $900 million a year every year for what will be 10 years.
We're about 5 or 6 years into that right now.
And Synovis is doing the same thing on the WRB side.
So between that contribution that we make and the cash flows that are generated inside the joint venture that funds SCCL CapEx for us.
So the $800 million or $900 million that I talked about is the SCCL CapEx and the rest of it is the development of the Surmont project or 50-50 joint venture with Total.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things for me hopefully both relatively housekeeping.
The first one is on your comments Jeff on shutting in gas.
Can you just give us an idea what would it take for you to bring your gas production back online? And given that prices have deteriorated somewhat since you made the decision I guess at the end of the fourth quarter can you just give us some thoughts as to whether the portfolio is -- that you are still producing to date is resilient at current gas prices? Or is it likely to get a little bit more aggressive there? My follow-up is on share buybacks please.
Yes Doug I'm not sure that we'll see much change from where we are right now.
Again maybe to reiterate some comments that we made when we talked about this previously.
If you look at our gas production across the Lower 48 and Canada North American natural gas production probably 2/3 to 70% of it the economics of gas production are driven by liquids prices.
So you don't see much -- there's no real reason to be shutting in that gas production.
It still has strong economics.
Of the 30% to 1/3 that's left of that we operate about 1/2 of that production.
Generally our partners have not wanted to shut in production.
Then we'll continue to monitor the balance of what we operate that isn't where -- the gas is more dry gas for potential additional shut-ins.
But right now we wouldn't expect it to be markedly different than what we saw in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> So Jeff when you say shut-in gas are you actually shutting in wells or are you choking them back? I'm thinking about shut-in royalty commitments that you might have.
It probably varies from place to place.
I think for the most part we're actually shutting them in.
And royalty commitments and things like that are things we look at and evaluating whether or not we shut in.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My follow-up is really a very simple one hopefully on share buybacks.
Whatever shares you've repurchased by the end of this month does that still impact the share count for PSX? And can you help maybe quantify what that number would be? Yes.
So yes it would impact the share count for PSX.
And we've talked about doing $5 billion by the end of the second quarter.
We did $2 billion basically in the first quarter and it's a pretty ratable purchase across the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So just to be clear then if you did let's say $3 billion in the balance of the second quarter I'm trying to understand how much -- I know it's a very small point really but how much would be allocated wholly to -- $1 billion in April? Okay great.
That answers the question.
Close enough to that but for -- around that.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to confirm when you all talk about $5 billion to $10 billion of asset sales you're not counting the Phillips 66 dividend within that.
And then I guess a related point is when you talk about using asset sales for stock buyback does that dividend also count as potential proceeds to supplement your stock buyback? No.
Okay no.
So what we are saying on the ConocoPhillips side is that we would anticipate over the next year that we're going to have between $8 billion and $10 billion of asset sales.
And then ConocoPhillips is going to have about $5 billion of share repurchases by the end of the second quarter.
And as I just mentioned we'll probably have about $3 billion of that done by the time of the spin.
Then we'll do another $2 billion probably in the balance of the second quarter.
And then after that the pace of share repurchase will sync up with the pace of further asset sales.
So when we talk about asset sales we're not trying to -- we're not counting the dividend we're not counting the Phillips 66 shares.
It's just the straight asset sales.
Research Division</strong> I think I got it then.
So if you do sell $8 billion or $10 billion or some other number that would be the ballpark by which you’d do future stock buybacks beyond what you just talked about for the second quarter? Yes.
I think we would -- of course we're going to be evaluating everything going forward just where we earn cash from operations what the investment opportunities in the portfolio look like and where we want to be on the debt balance.
There'll be a lot of things that go into the mix.
But if you go back to the -- really what Jim Mulva said back in his presentation in March where he said $5 billion by the end of the second quarter and we hope to be around $10 billion depending on the pace of asset sales that's the same kind of guidance we would give.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's great.
And then just one E&amp;P follow-up.
You mentioned some of the work you did in the Niobrara.
Where is that program for you guys? How many wells have you drilled? Where are you in terms of being sort of encouraged in terms of your position and where do you think it can go over time? I don't have those details right in front of me.
What -- we may have to get back to you on...
I'd say we're early days.
Yes it's still pretty early days.
And I'm not exactly sure how much we're talking quite yet about the Niobrara.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And I'm sorry just one very quick final one.
The 24 000 barrels a day you said for the Bakken is that Williston Basin or is that actually Bakken? It's Bakken.
Our next question comes from Robert Kessler from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you had done any kind of -- I'm sure you have done a look back on Bohai Bay and determined the overall financial impact as a result of the incident and obviously there's opportunity cost we can get with that.
But there's some adjustment we have to do for the fiscal regime there the cleanup effort directly and also the settlement.
Do you have a total figure that we could use to cross-check around that? Not that we really want to -- no we don't really.
And we're still in the middle of discussions on Bohai Bay with the authorities there.
It probably would be better for us to get everything resolved and then talk about that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give any more clarity on the fiscal take there and what -- I mean your production volumes as reported for ConocoPhillips are already net of the sort of PSC effect.
And then I guess on top of that we need to apply an income tax any sort of incremental excise tax or how do we think about the government take of your net share of production? Well the production number we talked about was our net share of production which includes the effects the PSC effects.
I mean other -- I don't think we would really want to provide exact kind of what the fiscal regime is absolute to those barrels.
I mean it is high-quality production with good margins.
It's above average production.
It's above average margin for us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And any estimate on overall dollars spent for the cleanup efforts? I mean not just -- not speaking to any kind of settlement or ongoing negotiation but just actual cash outlay to resolve the incident? I don't have that figure in front of me Robert.
We can probably get back to you on that one.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I hate to belabor the share buyback question but if I can just confirm the $2 billion post split in the second quarter are we to think about that as being solely at the upstream? Or is that a combination of both upstream and downstream? That's at the upstream.
That's a ConocoPhillips guidance.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So at post split it'll just continue on the upstream? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And then on your production guidance obviously we have some gas shut-in.
I know you had contemplated the return of Libya.
I'm not exactly sure at what level but obviously Libya has come back fairly quickly.
In your assumptions can you talk about what's embedded in there? In other words are the shut-ins in natural gas already in that 1.55 to 1.6 number? Yes I mean it's part of the reason why we give ranges on production and guidance is that yes that is -- we have our uncertainties of exactly what rate Bohai will ramp back up with and just other things in our portfolio.
Just as far as Libya is concerned Libya production I believe in the quarter was around 36 a day which is about 6 higher than it was in the first quarter of 2011.
And I don't really -- based on our forecast we don't see that going higher than that for the year.
I mean it's pretty flat looking out through the remainder of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The last one if I could ask one on APLNG.
I know it may be early days on this but you're looking at FID potentially in the second quarter.
My understanding is the real I guess incremental returns from that project were going to come from trains 3 and 4.
Do you have any clue when we may be evaluating those? I think we're going to just have to see how things develop whether ultimately there's a train 3 or 4 or whether it makes sense to take any additional resource we find to lengthen the life of the first 2 trains or we don't know whether there may actually be capacity in others' trains that could make sense to use longer term.
So it's really too early for us to try to make an estimate on whether or not there will be additional trains there.
There just be a lot of options but what we think is still a very high quality resource.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I want to come back to the buybacks on asset sales again.
Given the fact that you're forecasting $5 billion by the end of the second quarter and you're now linking pretty closely your share buybacks to your asset sales is it a fair assumption to say that by the end of the first half you’ll have sold $5 billion of the $8 billion to $10 billion you're talking about? And what sort of production impact is that going to be? No.
I think when we think of the share repurchase program we're currently doing in the first half of the year we're more looking backwards at the asset sales that we have done in the previous -- first part of this year and the latter part of last year.
So we're not -- I wouldn't carry that link across to things being done in the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can I ask a couple of questions on where you talked about as far as ...
While on the production Iain I guess Vietnam is in there right? So impact of production on second quarter from asset sales I think Jeff said were...
It's 20 000 to 30 000.
The biggest chunk of that is Vietnam.
We've got some things in the North Sea and some smaller assets in North America that could close in the second quarter relatively small amounts there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 20 000 to 30 000 is really already done? Yes a lot of that was Vietnam.
Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay and just a couple of questions about -- you mentioned taxes and also an underlift as being fairly significant negatives in the first quarter.
Is taxes kind of become the continuation of the North Sea effect in Alaska? Or is there something else there which we don't know about? It's primarily the North Sea effect.
The U.K.
tax increase that happened last year.
The second quarter I guess so it impacted the first quarter.
Yes right.
And then Alaska again it's a pretty progressive tax regime at the current price environments.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the underlift what about that? That seems like a fairly substantial number for an underlift? Yes it was fairly substantial.
We see numbers of about that size.
Well really -- no it is a fairly high number for an underlift.
It's not completely unprecedented.
It just has to do with timings of when cargoes get lifted.
And unfortunately the ones that did affect it were international that had relatively higher margins.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we're talking about Australia or the U.K.
something like that? Yes above average margins.
Right.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Clayton I just want to make sure I understand you're saying that the underlift is primarily relate to Australia or that it's not related to Libya.
I thought the underlift would be primarily related to Libya? No.
The underlift is -- you have underlifts and overlifts all throughout the portfolio so it's a netting effect that this quarter netted to that kind of number.
So we were overlifted in some places we're underlifted in others.
It's just the balance this time ended up with a number that we felt was significant enough we should mention it.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff maybe that I must be missing something maybe you can help me.
I was looking in the first quarter your oil and gas realization is roughly about $66.7 per BOE.
It's about $2 higher than the fourth quarter.
Even after I take into consideration of the underlift of $85 million your net income for the whole year is still about $15 versus in the fourth quarter it's about $16.
Your production is actually somewhat up.
So -- and you're saying that -- is that the reason why the unit cost out there -- unit margin is down? You said because sequentially we have a higher unit cost or is there something that we're missing? No it's primarily driven by things like the timing on the underlift like we've mentioned.
It's driven by the fact that natural gas prices were lower in the first quarter than they were in the fourth quarter last year.
NGL prices were lower in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter last year.
Bitumen prices were lower in the fourth -- lower as well.
Crude prices were up.
And the mix of all those things...
Research Division</strong> But Jeff I'm sorry but what I did is that I did look at what you report as your crude oil price and your bitumen price and your natural gas price.
I did a calculation based on what you report.
Your average realization per BOE net of all those what you mentioned actually sequentially is up about $2 per barrel.
That is what I am -- seems I am at a loss.
Okay we'll have to work with you on that one.
I'm not sure how your -- what your calculation is.
We'll have to take that one off-line.
Research Division</strong> Okay I will do that if I could.
Clayton do you have an actual fully diluted share cost [ph] at the end of the quarter March 31? We probably do.
Do you have that Jeff? No I just have the average in front of me.
No I don't.
We can get that to you.
I mean it will be on the face of the 10-Q that we file next week.
Research Division</strong> So I mean you guys have it that you can show me a complete [indiscernible] per share? Yes we can do that.
Research Division</strong> And that the reposition cost Jeff do you guys have an estimate on what that total is going to be? So it was $95 million in the first quarter.
It's been $120 million if you look at across the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
It's going to be -- you'll see it.
It'll be hard to track after this because it's going to be reported in 2 separate companies.
But most -- probably the majority of the repositioning costs are behind us now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on a going-forward basis on a sustainable basis what is the estimated increase in your higher G&amp;A costs at the 2 separate companies? Do you have a number that you can share? It'll split evenly between the companies and for both companies I think we're saying it'll be around $75 million to $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Per year? Per year right.
Research Division</strong> Pretax or after-tax basis? That's an after-tax number.
Research Division</strong> After-tax.
Okay.
And in Poland Jeff is there some drilling result you can share with us so far? There's not drilling results that we are sharing yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The final 2 questions.
In Bakken Permian Basin and Eagle Ford do you have a breakdown of what is your production as a percentage of frac oil condensate and NGL? Yes so Eagle Ford is 60% crude or condensate.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a further breakdown between crude oil and condensate? No I don't because those 2 price very similarly.
About 20% NGLs.
About 20% NGLs and about 20% natural gas.
The Bakken is basically 90% crude and 5% say NGLs and 5% gas.
Permian is...
I got it.
53% -- or 50% to 55% crude; 10% to 15% NGLs; and the balance would be gas.
That's of our current Permian production.
So if you look at the things we're bringing on there I think there's probably a higher weighting to the liquids side.
Research Division</strong> And it seems that I mean the refinery don't we need one condensate per se? So that's why I wanted to see a breakdown between the condensate and frac oil.
I mean as of today I don't think there's such a big difference in terms of the pricing.
But is it possible that over the next 2 or 3 years as we continue to ramp up the condensate and with no readily available local market for that we would start to see big differences between the condensate pricing and the frac oil pricing? That's something I don't have a view on right now Paul.
Yes I mean I guess you're saying that our refineries aren't going to be interested in running very light liquids production [indiscernible] find a home outside the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Well I mean you're going to max out on your distillation tower on the very late end.
So I mean there’s really not much you can run especially if you're going to see more of the WCS coming down then they will occupy some of the light barrel light column already.
Yes I'm sure we will see some short-term dislocations in the market as we build out these plays in the next few years.
But longer term when you think about products like propanes butanes condensates those are something that you can export.
So that will also help any differentials that might be there.
Research Division</strong> Clayton is there any possibility if you can say maybe help us there by giving us the breakdown between your condensate and your frac oil mix in those areas? That would be really appreciated.
Yes we've got some follow-up to do with you Paul.
[Operator Instructions] At this time we have a question from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kind of a big picture one about the dividend.
You will have unquestionably the highest dividend yield of any independent oil and gas company.
And I'm just curious your thoughts on how that positions you vis-à-vis the investment days.
It's obviously not a typical not a commonplace model for independence.
So just your thoughts on that.
That's a great question because that is really kind of a fundamental difference of ConocoPhillips and much else that's out there in the marketplace today.
And you can see that when we put out our investor update we titled it as a new class of investment kind of pointing out that difference.
I mean in many ways we've got the assets of a major.
We're going to try to have the nimbleness and culture of an independent.
But from a distribution point of view we feel like we're of a size and of a maturity and in an industry where shareholders should be expecting that a significant portion of cash flow comes back to them in the form of a dividend.
And we've talked about that being 20% to 25% of our cash flow.
And that ends up giving us a dividend that's like what the integrated company has today.
And we recognize that that's going to give us a pretty high yield going out of the box.
But we think that's an issue not with the dividend but with the share price and that that's going to be something that will change over time.
We still would be looking to maintain that kind of payout ratio longer term and also to see increases in the dividend as our earnings and our cash flow grows over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on that same point is there an oil price level where you would begin to be concerned about maintaining share buyback at the rate that you're currently doing especially given that I think as you indicated your asset sale program may not extend that much into 2013? Well as prices change we're always looking at the whole mix of things that we use our cash flow for.
Though basically we want to maintain a capital program that's fairly consistent across the years we don't want to be moving that up and down.
We want to have a dividend that's like I just discussed that's at the level it is today and grows over time.
We've got a lot of capacity on our balance sheet to handle short-term swings in prices.
So if we get a big change in prices we'll look and adjust.
But in the near term it probably would not see large adjustments on the upside or the downside as prices moved either up or down to the size of our capital program.
And on share repurchases we're always going to be evaluating what the best use of our proceeds are.
As we look out today we think it's reasonable guidance to say that we'll be using proceeds from asset sales to fund share repurchases.
This concludes our question-and-answer session due to time constraints.
I will now turn the conference back to Mr.
Reasor for closing remarks.
Well thank you and thank you for the interest in ConocoPhillips as well as the individual entities going forward.
We look forward to further discussions in the future.
Again you'll find a transcript of this call and the presentation material on the ConocoPhillips website.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2012 ConocoPhilips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Ms.
DeSanctis you may begin.
Thank you Kim and good morning to everybody.
Again thank you for joining us on this ConocoPhilips second quarter earnings call.
I'm in the room today with Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO; and Jeff Sheets our EVP and Chief Financial Officer.
And before I turn the conference over to those 2 gentlemen let me make a few administrative comments.
First of all we -- you'll notice we've provided a lot of new information with today's disclosure.
And of course that's to help you understand the business better.
We've provided segment data on each of our regions in addition to some data on our Corporate statements and I just want to let people know Vladimir and I will be available after the call to help you sort through those details as needed.
In addition I want to remind you that our presentation materials for the call today can be found on our website and a transcript to this call will be posted again to our website hopefully by no later than tomorrow morning.
And then finally if you'll advance to Slide 2 you'll note our cautionary statement.
We will make some forward-looking statements during today's webcast and actual results could differ materially from the expectations we shared today.
The factors that could cause these results to differ are listed in this cautionary statement as well as in our periodic filings with the SEC.
And now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Ryan Lance.
Thank you Ellen and thank you all for joining the call today.
So I reflect back and in mid-April we laid out our plans for the newly independent ConocoPhilips and today represents our first quarterly call to update you on those plans.
I'm looking forward to your questions at the end as well.
So I'll begin my comments on Slide 3 and cover some of our key second quarter highlights.
Strategically the second quarter was certainly an eventful one.
Less than 100 days ago we completed the spinoff of our Phillips 66 company.
And while we were prepared for the event it's really hard to know until that event actually shows up how things go.
But I'm pleased to say that I think we hit the ground running and I certainly couldn't be prouder of our employees.
They certainly stepped up in a pretty big way.
So in addition to completing the Phillip 66 spinoff we continue to make progress on our divestiture program.
This is a strategic program that's important for completing the repositioning of the ConocoPhilips and adding financial flexibility to the company.
In the quarter we generated about $0.5 billion of proceeds from asset sales in the North Sea and we continue to advance our progress on other assets.
We still estimate that our announced program will be complete by mid-2013.
I also include a point about our unconventional and our conventional exploration program as a strategic highlight.
We made progress in the corner -- in the quarter on these important activities with more to come in the year.
And I'll speak about our exploration activities in more detail in a moment because this is an important part of our plans for the future and we have a lot of going on in this area.
Operationally the business ran well in the quarter.
We achieved the high end of our estimated production range for the quarter at 1.54 million barrels equivalent per day.
Key production highlights include our ongoing strong performance from unconventional assets in the Lower 48 led by our Eagle Ford development and from our oil sands in Canada.
Our major projects have progressed notably our APLNG and in the second quarter we advanced at Train 2 towards FID and recently announced that milestone.
Both Jeff and I will cover some additional details about our operational performance in later comments.
Moving to the financial themes.
Clearly our strong operational quarter was overshadowed by weaker commodity prices.
This translated to lower income and cash flow for the quarter compared to prior periods.
It's important to note that our diversified portfolio helped buffer some of the impact of weaker North American commodity prices.
This allowed us to generate $1.5 billion of adjusted earnings or $1.22 of adjusted earnings per share.
Excluding working capital we achieved $3 billion in cash from operations.
What's important to note is that this cash flow number reflects the fact that we had a number of high margin production offline due to planned turnarounds in this quarter.
In other words the $3 billion should not be considered ratable.
And finally we purchased 3.1 billion of ConocoPhilips shares in the quarter representing a total of about 52 million shares and through 6 months we've delivered on our goal of repurchasing $5 billion worth of shares.
So in summary we had a strong quarter strategically and operationally delivering on several important fronts.
While commodity prices softened we stayed focused and delivered on things we can control to meet our commitment for growth financial returns and yield over the long-term.
So if you turn to Slide #4 I'd like to address the state of the business and put some perspective around the focus areas and the priorities for the rest of the year and beyond.
As I already mentioned the business is running well and that's absolutely key.
We are focused on delivering our programs and plans safely on-time and on budget.
Our major growth projects are on track and these include our Lower 48 unconventional resource plays as well as our major growth projects in the Canadian oil sands the North Sea projects in the U.K.
and Norway APLNG and our Malaysian deepwater projects.
These are the major projects that will underpin our long-term goal to deliver 3% to 5% with margin expansion at flat prices.
Aside from the major projects the base business is also running well.
As you know second and third quarters are typically high season for maintenance downtime but we have those activities well in hand.
Finally we continue to start our dry gas drilling and deferred capital to the liquids-rich plays.
As I mentioned a minute ago our exploration program continues to gain momentum.
This is an aspect of the business that we are reemphasizing in the new ConocoPhilips and I'd like to give you some highlights of that.
First I should note that though I talk about exploration I talk about it through 2 lenses: a conventional lens and an unconventional lens.
And we have a lot of activity in both our unconventional and conventional programs throughout the year and in this second quarter.
In the unconventional plays we continue to test liquids-rich opportunities in North America.
We have pilot programs actively underway and in place like the Niobrara the Wolfcamp the Duvernay and the Avalon.
We are also evaluating several other opportunities some of which are associated with ConocoPhilips' massive land position in the Lower 48 and Western Canada.
With approximately 21 million net acres much of it held by production we have access to some potentially impactful unconventional plays.
One example that I'd like to share with you this morning is the Mancos Shale in the San Juan Basin.
We are the largest lease holder in the San Juan Basin today with 900 000 acres held by production.
We have been actively reviewing our extensive data across the Mancos' in the gas the liquids-rich and the oil window and plan to test the play later in the year.
Other companies are actively testing the play now which means we are effectively derisking the play with other people's money.
If the play is successful we have years and years of drilling activity ahead.
It's opportunity like these in our backyard adjacent to where we have operating and infrastructure and expense and already held by production they are what create long-term running room for the company in this unconventional space.
Internationally we're currently getting ready to pilot test our 11 million-acre unconventional shale position in Australia's Canning Basin.
Now let me move to the conventional side.
We made significant progress here in this quarter as well.
During the quarter we spud 3 nonoperated wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
That appraisal well was spud on the Shenandoah prospect and 2 wildcat wells were started at the Bioko and Coronado prospects.
We continue to build our deepwater prospect inventory in the Gulf of Mexico largely focused on the Paleogene play.
We added a significant chunk of acreage late last year and as well we now hold more than 325 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico.
Finally earlier this year we added significant conventional acreage positions in Angola and in Bangladesh and we're undertaking seismic activities in both those areas right now.
So we're busy in the exploration area and we think this is an important part of the business where we are very effectively positioning for future growth and taking advantage of good opportunities as they arise.
This combined with our 43 billion barrel resource space is revising optionality to our growth.
On the business development side we're very focused on completing our announced asset sale program.
We have targeted selling $8 billion to $10 billion of assets by mid-2013.
We have several packages on the market today.
When we started this divestiture program we understood some of the assets would take some time to sell but overall I'm pretty pleased with the progress that we're making.
This year to date we've sold about $1.6 billion of assets with several more currently in the process.
We're being patient at date [ph] we remain committed to getting the program completed but we'll do that at acceptable prices.
With the year half over and the spinoff complete we have scrubbed our capital outlook for 2012.
We now believe we have good visibility on the rest of the year and estimate 2012 capital spending to be about $16 billion.
This includes the impact of pushing out the expected timing of asset sales some of which have quite a lot of capital spending associated with them.
It also includes the impact of some incremental exploration spending I just mentioned as well as some incremental investments for infrastructure in the Eagle Ford area to ensure that we're not constrained in that development.
Although commodity prices have weakened for all of industry we continue to believe that our growth projects are robust enough to justify our planned investment at a range of prices.
These are projects that will generate growth margin improvement and returns for the longer term.
For this reason we did not think it's prudent to reduce our capital at this time given that we're investing for a long-term value creation.
So some of the questions we get I hope this next slide starts to address and it looks at our funding sources and uses of these in a bit more detail.
So this slide lays out our current thinking on our investment priorities and the actions we'll take to fund our growth programs and maintain financial flexibility over the course of 2012 and 2013.
It summarizes our sources of cash on the left and our uses of cash by priority on the right.
On the sources side we have cash on hand of roughly $6 billion today plus incoming cash from operations.
And of course cash from operations will vary according to price.
So we expect to generate cash proceeds from asset sales of between $8 billion and $10 billion over the course of the next year and we have balance sheet capacity if needed.
That consensus views of cash from operations the sum of this column for 2012 and 2013 combined could be as much as $40 billion without going to the balance sheet.
On the right-hand side of this chart we have the uses for the cash listed by priority.
Our top priority for spending is to fund our dividend.
We believe that a company our size should distribute about 20% to 25% of our annual cash flows through the cycles back to our shareholders.
Our next priority is to fund our capital program at roughly $15 billion annual level.
Over the next 2 years the sum of our expected dividends and annual capital program is roughly $36 billion.
So in the current environment we have sufficient sources from cash cash flows and asset sales to cover our highest priority uses funding our dividend and investing in our capital programs and modestly reducing our debt levels.
We think this allocation make sense and creates long-term value for our shareholders.
Higher levels of asset sale proceeds or higher cash from improved commodity prices would give us the opportunity to consider additional share repurchases.
On the other hand if prices were to cycle down for an extended period of time we would adjust our capital program and use the balance sheet's capacity as needed.
So now let me turn over the call to Jeff and he'll cover our financial and our segment reviews.
Thank you Ryan and good morning everyone.
I thought I would start this portion of the call with a list of some of the key drivers that underpinned our financial and operating performance for the quarter.
These are drivers that either affected our segments across the board or represent some noteworthy impact to our financials.
The first is no surprise North American crude bitumen and natural gas and NGL prices continue to trend lower and we'll have more detail on that on the next slides.
In terms of production our volumes came in as planned with a solid performance across our portfolio.
Ryan stepped through a few of these but as a reminder our Lower 48 Shale and Canadian oil sands achieved production increases which were somewhat offset by unusually heavy planned maintenance efforts and the impact of dispositions.
Generally operating costs were as expected and dispositions also had some impact on our financials and we'll cover that as we go through the segments.
I'd also note that the format of the slides we're using this morning are quite different from our previous earnings calls with a lot more information being presented about each of our geographic operating segments.
What's also different is that we'll be providing outlook information as we go through the presentation instead of all at once at the end of the presentation as we have done in previous earnings calls.
So if you move to Slide 7 we'll start the discussion with a discussion of our realized prices.
About 55% of our production consists of liquids and about 45% consists of natural gas.
Of the 55% that's liquids about 30% is tied to Brent or international prices which were strong early in the quarter and began to decline later in the quarter.
The remaining 20% of liquids is tied to North American crude markers NGL or bitumen prices.
And this production continues to be adversely impacted by wide crude differentials.
On the natural gas side about 45% of our portfolio roughly 20% consists of international gas.
That's gas outside of North America.
For LNG which actually enjoyed a relatively strong pricing this quarter.
And the remainder of gas consists of North American natural gas which of course continues to be challenged.
On the right side of this chart we presented the second quarter price realizations compared to prior periods.
Now this highlights the commodities that were weaker versus stronger in those periods and our overall price declined about $6 from a year ago and about $5 from the first quarter.
The key takeaway from this slide is that we're -- that we benefit somewhat from a diversified global portfolio.
About 55% of our mix was not affected by weaker North America pricing.
As our major projects come online our production mix shifts more to liquids and natural gas -- liquids and international gas and this will help improve our margins and cash flow growth in the future.
So let's move to Slide 8 and talk about total company production.
As Ryan mentioned our production was 1.54 million BOE per day on target with our expectations.
This was down 97 000 BOE per day from the same period last year.
At a high level you can see that this decrease can be bucketed roughly 1/3 to dispositions which Vietnam Statfjord and Alba; about 1/3 to downtime in Australia Alaska and Canadian oil sands; and about 1/3 to natural gas declines in North America driven by decreased activities and curtailments.
And what it also shows us that our growth offset base decline accounting for over 110 000 BOE per day compared to last year.
The bulk of the growth coming from the Eagle Ford Bakken Permian and oil sands assets.
In a moment I'll provide more detail on production by segment let me first give you some guidance for production estimates for the rest of the year.
We expect third quarter production to be between 1.475 million and 1.525 million BOE per day.
Most to the expected drop from the second quarter to the third quarter is due to planned downtime in Alaska and the U.K.
Our full year production estimate is now expected to be between 1.565 million and 1.585 million BOE per day and this includes the impact of dispositions.
Now I'll turn to our adjusted earnings on Slide 9.
Now this slide shows the 7 new reporting segments for our company.
We'll go through in detail in each of these segments in subsequent slides and there's also additional information along with the historical data in the supplemental tables included in the press release.
Although we operated well our results compared to prior quarters were adversely impacted by the combination of lower commodity prices and lower production as we discussed on the previous slides.
Lower 48 and Canada were affected by natural gas prices that were down more than 50% NGL prices down more than 20% and Canadian bitumen prices down more than 20%.
The biggest volume-related impacts to earnings were the asset dispositions in Europe lower production in China and the turnarounds in Australia.
Our second quarter adjusted earnings were $1.535 billion versus $2.31 billion a year ago.
Now I'll turn to the segment slide beginning with Alaska on Slide 10.
Our legacy asset in Alaska continues to operate well and provides strong earnings and production performance.
Production was 215 000 BOE per day down from a year ago.
The lower production was driven by natural gas field decline partially offset by improved drilling performance and lower unplanned downtime.
In the quarter we completed a major turnaround at Kuparuk on schedule and on budget.
Adjusted net income for the segment was $551 million roughly equivalent to a year ago.
In the third quarter we have additional turnarounds planned which we estimate will lower sequential production by 40 000 to 50 000 BOE per day.
Looking forward Alaska's segment where we have opportunities to mitigate decline from incremental exploitation opportunities and we retain the option from some longer-term projects such as LNG exports and ANS gas.
Our future developments from Alaska are contingent upon some improved fiscal terms.
So next we'll move to the Lower 48 and Latin America segments which is on Slide 11.
In this segment we continue to advance several high-margin growth projects across our asset base.
Total production for the quarter was 441 000 BOE per day approximately 16 000 BOE per day higher than last year.
The growth over last year was driven by our liquids-rich plays in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian.
And then this growth was partially offset by natural gas declines across the portfolio.
Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian average production in the second quarter this year was 61 000 25 000 and 51 000 BOE per day respectively.
Our total production of 137 000 BOE per day from these 3 plays was 54 000 BOE per day higher than a year ago.
So looking more broadly across the Lower 48 portfolio liquids production was up 24% and natural gas production declined 8%.
This reflects our shift in capital to liquids plays and away from dry gas drilling.
Although we saw year-over-year production growth in the Lower 48 the net income results from the second quarter were lower due to a 50% drop in natural gas prices and a 23% drop in NGL prices.
This reduces net income $119 million for this segment.
In the second quarter we had a total of 31 drilling rigs comprised of 17 at the Eagle Ford 8 in the Bakken and 6 in the Permian.
And we expect to maintain a tunnel of 27 rigs through the end of this year.
A majority of the acreage in the Bakken and the Permian is held by production and we expect to have the Eagle Ford acreage held by mid-2013.
And based on the positive results we're seeing to date on these liquids-rich shale plays we expect that we've identified extensive development potential over the next several years.
As Ryan mentioned earlier we are resuming high impact deepwater Gulf of Mexico exploration and appraisal activities.
We would expect to have some results by either late this year or early next year.
So next we'll move to our Canadian segment on Slide 12.
Canadian production was 268 000 BOE per day in the second quarter up 6 000 BOE per day versus the same period last year driven by a ramp-up in oil sands production.
New production growth of 22 000 BOE per day was offset by natural gas asset disposition natural gas curtailment from lower well performance as a result of restricted capital investments in our natural gas fields.
As you can see on the production charts liquids as a proportion of our total segment production increased compared to last year.
Liquids volumes were up year-over-year 19% while natural gas declined 9%.
Again like the Lower 48 segment this shift can -- should start to show up as improved margins over time.
So even though our Canadian business operated well segment earnings reflected significantly lower bitumen prices increased WTI WCS spreads and lower natural gas and NGL prices.
As a result of these factors and given that 62% of our total production in Canada is attributable to natural gas and NGLs adjusted net income was a negative $94 million for the quarter compared to a positive $82 million in the second quarter of 2011.
It's important to note that this segment has generated positive operating cash flow year-to-date.
So even with gas prices at recent lows the cash flows from this segment are important sources of cash for redeploying into our growth programs.
The company's oil sands projects continue to perform well with production growth from Christina Lake Phase III and Surmont Phase I.
This resulted in increased bitumen production of 20 000 BOE per day compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Additionally the Surmont Phase II development and further SCCL expansion phases are underway and should lead to further production growth over the next several years.
In May we received approval from the Alberta government to proceed with the Narrows Lake oil sands project.
And the project is anticipated to have gross production capacity of 130 000 BOE per day to be developed in 3 phases starting in 2017.
So next we'll move to the Europe segment on Slide 13.
Second quarter production in Europe decreased by 42 000 BOE per day to 236 000 BOE per day.
This was primarily driven by natural gas field decline and by natural field decline in Britannia Ekofisk and J-Block downtime in the Statfjord and the Alba asset dispositions.
Net income in Europe was $414 million down $119 million from last year.
Commodity prices held up in this segment relatively well compared to the North American markets.
And positive FX impacts slightly improved income this quarter.
In the near term we expect volumes in this segment to decline.
Now volumes will begin to increase when the Jasmine project comes online in 2013 and when additional North Sea projects at Clair Ekofisk South and Eldfisk II start up.
And one additional point I'll remind you is that the U.K.
recently enacted legislation with -- which restricts corporate tax relief on decommissioning cost to the 50% tax rate retroactive back to March of 2012.
And we anticipate in the third quarter 2012 that our earnings would be reduced by approximately $175 million due to the remeasurement of these deferred tax liabilities.
So I'll turn to Slide 14 and talk about our Asia Pacific and Middle East segment.
Production in this segment was 270 000 BOE per day down approximately 85 000 per day from the second quarter of 2011.
This reduction was driven by the curtailment of the Peng Lai production the disposition of Vietnam business unit and by the safe completion of a 41-day turnaround at the Darwin LNG project.
At of -- the end of the second quarter Peng Lai was producing 30 000 BOE per day net.
We are seeking approval for our final operating and development plan but continue to ramp up production under an interim production resumption plan.
Compared to the same period last year adjusted net income decreased by $167 million to $789 million.
This decrease was driven by 24% lower volumes slightly offset by improved LNG prices and lower DD&amp;A.
The second production train at APLNG was sanctioned in July and project financing agreements were signed during the second quarter.
The project is on track for first deliveries of LNG in 2015.
Concurrent with project sanctions ConocoPhilips further reduced its working interest in the project to 37.5%.
In Malaysia development continues on several projects including the deepwater Gumusut oil field off the coast of Sabah.
The natural gas Kebabangan field and the oilfields at Malikai and Siakap North-Petai.
Finally we anticipate beginning our pilot program in the Canning Basin as Ryan mentioned in the third quarter.
So I'll move to our International segment on Slide 15.
This segment includes our assets in Russia Caspian and Africa.
Production was 112 000 BOE per day up from 88 000 BOE per day a year ago.
Now this increase was primarily due to the restart of our operations in Libya partially offset by declines in Russia.
Net income was a negative $19 million driven by lower crude prices high taxes and foreign exchange impacts.
And for the company overall the FX losses on this segment generally offset the FX gains that I talked about in Europe.
As we've indicated in the past we are actively marketing some of these assets in this segment as part of our $8 billion to $10 billion divestiture program.
So the final reporting segments I'll talk about is on Slide 20 our Corporate and Other segments.
Since this is essentially a cost segment adjusted earnings were a negative $225 million this quarter.
The cost contained in this segment include net interest expense corporate G&amp;A environmental cost some FX impacts and our emerging businesses cost.
A portion of the former Emerging Business segment that you will recall from the integrated ConocoPhilips is now included as part of this Corporate and Other segment.
For guidance purposes I would suggest using a $1 billion annually for this Corporate segment so roughly another $500 million for the second half of this year.
So next we'll turn to Slide 17 and talk about our operating segment margins and returns.
The 4 pack -- the slides on this page summarize our key financial metrics for the quarter.
In the short run prices overshadow the operational and portfolio improvement successes we've had for the company -- as a company.
Looking year-over-year at the second quarter the drop in income per BOE is primarily driven by the $6 drop in realized prices we discussed earlier.
And our cash contributions and our return on capital and cash return on capital metrics follow this same trend.
And before turning the call back to Ryan to close up I'll go through our year-to-date company cash flow on Slide 18.
Today we generated $7 billion of cash from continuing operations which excludes an increase in working capital of about $600 million.
We've also generated $1.6 billion from asset sales.
To date we have spent $8.2 billion in capital which includes approximately $500 million of deepwater Angola exploration and Gulf of Mexico leasehold.
It also includes a heavier spending on the APLNG project and we expect in the balance of 2012.
We paid $1.7 billion in dividends continuing the same dividend rate as Caprice did in the integrated ConocoPhilips.
Related to the repositioning the net income impact -- the net impact cash flow impact of the spinoff of Phillips 66 was $5.7 billion.
This was a combination of all of the operating investing and spin-related transactions for the operations of what the assets that are now in Phillips 66.
During the first 2 quarters of the year we also repurchased $4.9 billion of our shares and that left us with $6 billion in total cash at the end of June including $5 billion in restricted cash and $1 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
During the third quarter of this year we expect to begin using some of these cash balances to reduce our debt balance.
So with that I'll turn it back to Ryan for some closing comments.
Thanks Jeff.
And if you could turn to Slide 19 I'll try to wrap up a little bit.
I think the takeaway that we'd like to have for you all for today's call is that the business is running well and our plans are on track.
The spinoff of Phillips 66 was a big milestone for the company and it successfully launched ConocoPhilips as an independent E&amp;P company.
Operationally we had a strong quarter and that part of the business is delivering on our expectations.
Certainly our focus will remain on returning value to the shareholders through our dividends and by executing on our major projects our exploration programs and our asset sales.
The asset sales are important because they generate proceeds that help fund our high return growth projects.
And we certainly will keep a close watch on the macroenvironment and we believe the investments that we're making today are going to position the company to deliver on our long-term value proposition of 3% to 5% growth in production and margins with improving absolute financial returns and combining a sector-leading yield.
So that wraps up our summary that we had today and look forward to the questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Faisel Khan from Citi.
Research Division</strong> On Slide 5 I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks the amount of cash flow you expect to generate from operations under consensus estimates.
I just want to clarify that was that $40 billion did you say? In '12 and '13? No.
The consensus cash from operations is not the $40 billion.
We think per year it's in the $12 billion to $14 billion range.
Research Division</strong> $12 billion to $14 billion.
Okay great perfect.
Yes so you add the $6 billion of cash on hand plus what we expect to get from asset dispositions is what adds up to the $40 billion Faisel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then on Peng Lai what's -- assuming you can get up to full operatable capacity what is that potential number over the long-term assuming you can get to your all the permits in place and be able to get back to producing in all those fields? Yes I think you ought to think in terms of 110 000 to 120 000 barrels a day gross.
So net back to us is in the 40 000 to 50 000 BOE per day level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And we would -- that compares to around 60 000 before the events.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then at APLNG given your reduced working interest now in that facility and also given the project financing that you have in place what kind of spend or what kind of equity contributions will have to -- will you be obligated to make to APLNG over the next sort of year or 2? So what we find is that over the second half of 2012 that the project financing and the fact that the additional interest that Sinopec is going to acquire as part of the final investment decision on the second train will fund most of the -- most of our capital requirements for the balance of the year.
And then we'll see lower capital requirements on APLNG as primarily related to project financing next year as well.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'd very much like for you your continued clarity and also really truly appreciate your level of disclosure that you give it.
It's admirable.
On the basic question of the cash flows just one point you didn't say anything about growing the dividend but assume that's your aim.
Yes.
Certainly I think our strategic intent we talked about is delivering 20% 25% of our cash flows back to the shareholder primarily through the dividend channel.
And so as we grow our production grow our earnings grow our cash flows that 20% to 25% is intended to grow as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I understand.
It's actually also a very interesting target.
I was going to move on to that that the idea that you would give back around 25% of your cash flows.
I guess what we're all struggling with is you mentioned that the consensus cash flows right now at $12 billion to $14 billion annually which even arguably I think is on a relatively aggressive oil price forecast.
So that's why it's helpful to see the uses of cash by priority.
I guess what we're struggling with is the extent to which over time you're going to have to cut back that capital program.
Could you just talk more yet more about the sensitivity of the program and how much you could potentially cut that back to balance your cash flows over the longer term? Yes.
So a couple of comments there from Paul first.
As I talked about the company is going through some fairly significant production growth and growth that's occurring at fairly high margins.
So if you think about it it's going from production level 1.5 to 1.6 up to the 1.8 to 1.9 kind of level over several years that adds significant cash flow and then as we've talked before that regardless of the price environment we're in by virtue of moving the portfolio more to liquids and as well moving it more to jurisdictions which have lower taxes we're going to see margin improvements.
So as we look at out over the next several years the difference between what we're generating in terms of cash and capital and dividends of course shrinks over time.
What we're trying to lay out for you this morning is that in this interim time period where it may not be covered then and then we have other sources of cash to balance that gap and then we think it makes sense to continue to invest in the capital that we have.
Ryan I don't know if you want comment on where we might cut capital if we end up really lower price environment? Yes certainly if -- so we've seen some drop off here from branded $120 down to arguably $100 reductions over the last -- through this last quarter.
We still think Brent's in the $90-ish $100 range is probably reasonable over the short-term.
But if we saw some cycling down of prices and we felt like they were going to be here for 2 or 3 years we would make adjustments to our capital program.
We're doing some of that through our disposition process and -- but we've identified some high capital-requiring assets that we would like to dispose of.
We've got capability to throttle back on some of our exploitations and in -- across all of North America really across the whole global portfolio and we would look at that as well.
We want to continue some of our what we think are the high-quality high-margin high return major projects.
We're not going to whipsaw some of those right now being some of our ones in the North Sea at in Norway the U.K.
Malaysia some of those we'd like to continue going.
But we've got some optionality and in the portfolio if we saw lower prices we're going to persist for 1 year or 2.
Yes I think we've experienced over time too is that as prices come down the activity levels come down across the industry.
You'll get the same amount of scope done for a lesser amount of money as well.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The -- if I think about the relationship you have with between the SCCLs and the share repurchases and the commitments you made essentially to buy back shares through the first half of the year where are we sitting now on buybacks for the rest of 2012 and into the first half of 2013? And knowing what you're saying about asset sales and share repurchases because it feels like you might be in a position to actually pretty much stop the buyback now? Well we completed the $5 billion that we said we would fund through the first half the year.
Our priorities have just kind of shifted with some of the reductions in the commodity prices that we've seen over the last quarter.
So as we look out ahead the asset sales and dispositions will be used to help fund our capital program.
If we end up getting an increase in dispositions above kind of what we're forecasting or if commodity prices ramp back up a little bit then that would leave room for us to consider more share repurchase.
Research Division</strong> Is that saying that basically the share repurchase has stopped now? Yes they have stopped.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just that you've laid out how cash flow margins are going to rise and therefore cash is going to expand over time.
Just still running through these cash balance numbers do you have a number I mean a rough range? Obviously we don't know what you're going to sell but for the CapEx that is associated with the disposals? If you looked at -- had we disposed of kind -- a rough range yes if we would dispose of everything that was on our -- that they were contemplating as asset dispositions as of the beginning of this year probably would have taken $1 billion to $1.5 billion of capital out of our -- out of this year's capital program.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so that will free up that CapEx plus maybe once APLNG is got through to invest more aggressively in shale? Yes.
I think as we look forward over the next -- right now we would think that our capital expenditures in 2013 are going to be in the range of $15 billion.
And that includes as you mentioned a fairly -- a continuation of the aggressive investment levels we're doing in the Lower 48 and in the resource plays.
Research Division</strong> And then obviously as you look to the divisional disclosure Canada is suffering maybe you could take back in the Permian is suffering from low realizations.
Apart from others building pipes to help you get to higher realizations on the production you're getting there.
I mean can you talk through your strategy to try and maximize realization for those onshore assets? Yes Ed we're -- we talked a little bit about that in terms of the 2012 capital that we see clarity on for the rest of the year and part of that is spending a fair amount of infrastructure to help our realizations and make sure we can move the product where it's getting bottlenecked and make sure we can get it sold.
So we're doing a fair amount of that where it makes sense where there's competition and where we can get to third parties for a reasonable cost we will do that.
But we're also focused on spending our own capital if we need to build our own infrastructure to make sure that we're maximizing the realizations.
Research Division</strong> Final one for me you mentioned the Mancos.
Any other any results you can share from them? And I do see your permitting down and your acreage down in Southern Louisiana I mean any results or targets that you are probing there? Well none that we would -- that I think we can disclose today it's all a pretty competitive position.
We want talk a little bit about of the Mancos because obviously we've got a lot of that acreage held by production.
So we're still studying that and hope to have results later this year.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify the stock buyback commentary.
I think we've always thought that future asset sales those proceeds would be used to buy back shares.
It sounds like it's not probably as direct going forward it will be a function of what cash you have available is that accurate? Yes I think that's fair Arjun.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's great.
And then in terms of the -- so you're going to spend $16 billion in capital this year you have the kind of $15 billion-ish number for next year in long-term.
Does that contemplate the $8 billion to $10 billion of asset sales? Or would that $15 billion-ish kind of number come down once you're finished with your asset sales? No we think that that's -- as we look at the portfolio look at the opportunities that look what we've added in the North American on conventionals we look out over time and $15 billion feels like a pretty reasonable kind of capital figure if that -- if commodity prices hang in at kind of today's level or even a bit softer.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
That make sense.
And then just last one for me some of the peer companies in Australia LNG has had some budget increases I'm -- my understanding is you all had more of a contingencies built into your budget.
But just wondering if you could comment on what you're seeing down there and how good you do feel about the current budget? Yes.
I know we have seen some announcements.
When we came out we felt like all along Arjun that 1 Train project or a 2-train project in Curtis Island was about $20 billion.
That was our estimate a couple of years ago and we're -- we haven't seen anything to think that that would be any different.
I think the we -- I think the other projects are just now realizing what it's going to cost if the -- on Curtis Island.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel from Macquarie.
I had a few more on APLNG if I could please.
First of all on the Upstream program I believe you guys are actually a fair bit ahead of the other projects that are going forward in Queensland.
But can you talk about what type of a forward drilling program that you need to have to match the Upstream with the Downstream requirements I guess in terms of number of wells to be drilled and then also in terms of rigs that you would need to run? Yes might have to get back with you on the specifics with that but I -- we would think we're running today a 3 4 rig program and feel like we've got with the efficiencies that we're gaining and the number of wells we're drilling on a daily and a monthly basis we're ramping up the well count in front of the start up of the first train.
So when the first train's ready to come online in 2015 we'll have the supply ready to go.
And then we're continuing to drill because 6 to 9 months later the second train will come online so we continue to drill and have the Upstream capacity available for that.
Sure.
And then in fact this was the logistics are obviously fairly difficult trying to match that number of wells with the requirement that you have so do you feel that the arrangements that you have commercially with the domestic market and some of the other projects give you more flexibility in how you manage that Upstream process? Yes I think we're probably uniquely positioned there because we're selling over 200 million a day to the domestic market today and we've got the ability to dewater wells and throw wells into the domestic market in knots.
We've got a lot more flexibility to be able to manage our available capacity on the front-end to make sure when the plant's ready to go that we can deliver the gas to the plant.
And then one more on APLNG if I could please.
You mentioned that you have project financing in place.
Can you talk about just in rough numbers what percentage of the overall capital requirements will come from the project financing facility? Yes the project financing that was completed was the agreements were signed back in the second quarter is an $8.5 billion project financing so it's so roughly 40% of their requirements.
Great.
And just how much cumulative cash flow would you need to generate -- to repay whatever principle amount you have to do first and fund any contingency accounts before APLNG could start dividending cash back to you? Well the repayment of the financing happens over a long period of time so as soon as APLNG starts stuff it will start paying out a dividend.
Okay.
So you wouldn't have contingency account funding that would have to come in front of dividend payments to the partner group? No.
I mean it's going to be part of what gets funded overall with the project so when we start up we will begin to make distributions.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> If I could just tack on to the APLNG question.
So I'm just curious you've sanctioned the second Train obviously that helps with scalability and efficiency and should improve overall return.
So just curious given the second quarter return on capital employed for the entire company at around 11% do you think this project will be accretive to overall returns? I think APLNG will be accretive to overall returns in the long-term but it will be a challenge to our overall returns in the near-term.
And that's pretty consistent with all long-life projects where you end up putting a lot of capital on the books upfront and then you get that back over a long a period of time.
So it's probably not accretive in the short-term.
It will be accretive in the long-term.
But it is -- then the issue there is the reason you've seen us dilute from our -- are willing to sell equity to a marketing entity to purchase a portion of the project and our willingness to be able to do that and that's caused us to go from the 50% down the 37.5% and we're looking for -- probably some opportunities for some further dilution at APLNG.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The second question was on the exploration front.
Ryan I know you gave us a few impact wells going down on the Gulf of Mexico.
I was just curious is there anything else globally that we should be aware of that could be high-impact? And then I know you mentioned Angola seismic could you give us an idea of when we may spud the first well there? I think we're looking in Angola the end of 2013 early 2014 for a well.
We're in the middle of capturing 3D seismic.
I think we pretty much completed our initial program in Bangladesh and we'll get that data in so that well is probably pushed out.
The other one I would probably point out in terms of impact is we're kind of at front end of our Poseidon appraisal program in the Browse Basin of Australia but that will be a probably a year-long 5 or 6 well program.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things for me.
When you did the separation Ryan you projected or you laid out all these projections there was one point that we're assuming $120 Brent at that time.
The margin improvement assumption of 3% to 5% I guess had that as a backdrop.
If you have to reset I'm guessing why haven't you reset your assumptions to what the futures curve looks like right now and would that change the margin improvement? That's my first question.
Well the yes I know we continue to get some of those questions Doug.
I just remind everybody we when we came out in April and we described that a little bit were trying to describe what current prices were and how the margin of an improvement.
The important part is this we look at the portfolio and we look at where we're investing the money whether you pick $120 or $100 or $90 oil or $80 oil our margin is going to improve on a flat price basis and we believe the 3% to 5% is coming at a flat price.
So it's not reliant on $120.
So as we look at our plans today and we look at the investments that we're making relative to the existing portfolio our margins are going to be improving over the next 3 to 5 years and we -- the absolute production growth and the margin growth is coming.
And we're investing in things that are changing the mix in the portfolio and are changing the tax burden on the company as well.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of other quick ones if I may add.
As usual it's -- I guess this is where my confusion comes in.
It's related to that issue of mix.
So when we look at Australia LNG and that's a very large part of your incremental organic growth.
I certainly had discussions with your team about this but the implied the IRR presented on Australia LNG which shows 8% to 10% at your internal assumptions can you share with us what -- how those assumptions differ your cash flow assumptions in other words $120 oil because what I'm trying to figure out is in the world oil price assumption was so much of your growth coming from APLNG how does that then jive with the incremental improvement in cash margin that 8% to 10% IRR? So if I may a couple of clarifications there Doug.
So the 8% to 10% IRR is not what you would have at $120 oil price.
And we seem to be doing much better than that $120 oil price.
So when we talk about margins we're talking about cash margins.
So when the APLNG starts up you're getting a significant return of you're getting a return on your capital you’re getting your capital back as well.
So the cash margins is going to be pretty robust on that project kind of regardless of what price environment that we're in.
So that those -- that will be a significant source of cash for us upon start up.
Research Division</strong> What I'm trying to figure out Jeff is well can you share with us what commodity assumption does equate to 8% to 10?%.
That was more on a $90 tough type price environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $90 per barrel would that still be accretive to cash margins? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final one then for me is on the disposals the $8 billion to $10 billion can you give us some scale of production and cash flow associated with those? And I'll leave it at that.
From a production standpoint like we said before it would depend upon the mix because there is a in that $8 billion to $10 billion is a mix of assets that are currently producing and currently not producing.
So impacts on current production are probably in the 50 000-barrel a day type range and depending upon the mix it could vary from plus or minus 25 000 barrels a day on either side of that.
Then cash flows I don't think I have a number that we can throw out to you on that.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jeff could I just go back to your comments on the U.K.
part of the business.
And you were talking about the impact of the tax change on abandonment.
And you mentioned a number which is going to affect I think you said third quarter earnings.
Can you just confirm what that is and whether it's a onetime charge? And with the kind of ongoing effect on DD&amp;A could be? It's a one -- that is a one-time charge of around $175 million and that just really reflects the fact that when the U.K.
increased tax rates earlier or it was last year up to around the 62% range they said they might be coming out later with some restrictions on how much you could deduct on abandonment obligations.
What they've done that now and said that only 50 -- you only get 50% tax relief on abandonment obligations.
That mark of our deferred tax liability down to reflect that change is what the $175 million should be.
So it's to be a onetime special item type event in the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And there won't any kind of ongoing effect on your DD&amp;A per barrel rate? There could be some no no no there isn't because it's just -- that's just a -- that's a before tax item.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly on NGL pricing there's going to be a fair amount of investments in infrastructure et cetera.
I just wanted to -- when you look at these very depressed prices you're getting in the Lower 48 how long you expect those to have such a big margin to oil prices going forward? And whether you've thought about any sort of hedging program for that? Obviously it's not great to under hedge now but whether that's something we should might want to look to protect in the future? So NGLs as we've pointed out are around globally about 9% of our production and the Lower 48 and Canadian portion of that is like 6% or 7% of our production.
As we look across over time if you roll the clock forward several years our NGL production we would anticipate to be relatively flat and with our growth is going to be coming from crude oil production.
So we don't have increasing exposure to NGLs going forward.
I think we see that the market is going to be fairly soft particularly for ethane in the near term which is what's really driving down the overall price of NGLs.
And -- but that will get solved with all the capacity expansions that you're hearing talked about in the chemicals side of the business right now.
So we don't think it's a long-term phenomenon but that kind of low NGL price is going to attract additional investments.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last one I'm going to go back to APLNG I'm afraid the other guys have announced big increases also talked about the translation effects of the Aussie dollar and I presume that when you launch this project you were looking at a much lower level of the Aussie dollar versus U.S.
dollar.
So is that -- does that $20 billion budget you have do you cover this kind of big increase in Aussie dollar exchange rates? Because I believe that's a very substantial portion of the overall CapEx is denominated in local currency? It is.
I mean that number reflects our current estimates with the way the market looks now on the Australian dollar but -- and that continues to be like with the other projects that continues to be one of the larger exposures we have on the project is is if there is a further weakening of the U.S.
seller relative to the Aussie dollar.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is it fair to say you've probably used up all contingency you had initially on that project? No I wouldn't say that.
I'd say that we feel like the numbers that we had out there now still has contingency in them.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First I want to echo to early comment that wanted to thank you for the expand disclosure very helpful and I appreciate it.
But just one possible request that since that you're going to break out the earnings by different regions can you also break out your exploration expense in the future by the corresponding region? That would be helpful in the modeling.
And that Ryan in your presentation that you give the production and the margin improvement target do you have a proven reserve growth target? Yes certainly Paul we expect over time to be more than replacing the production.
So we haven't come out and said exactly what it is but it's -- clearly targets over 100%.
It'll be lumpy and there'll be years when it probably dramatically exceeds it and years when it will be right at it.
Research Division</strong> Should we assume that you were trying to hold your RDP rates flat or were -- that's not really a target? I don't think about Paul trying to hold RDP flat.
In fact as we shift our investments in some of these higher-margin the profile of the some of these investments I actually expect our RDP will go down a little bit over time not a lot or not but will trend down versus trying to trend flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jeff on the asset sale I just want to clarify that.
$8 billion to $10 billion -- does it for 2012 and '13 does it already include the $1.6 billion year-to-date and also the expected farm down of the -- on the APLNG? So we do include -- we think about that number as a 2012 and 2013 number.
The farm down on APLNG ends up being a contribution into the joint venture so it's not an asset sale so.
Research Division</strong> Okay so APLNG is not included but the $1.6 billion year-to-date is included? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And since I've got you Jeff that I think you guys have an open leak [ph] in the second quarter around 29 000-barrel per day.
What region that if it's -- come from? And also as of the end of June 30 you guys balance or still net overweight? Open leaks [ph]? Paul we'll have to get back to you on that.
I don't have that right in front of me.
We'll get back to you Paul.
Our final question comes from Jeff Dietert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> This is Guy Baber here in for Jeff.
I was hoping you guys could talk a little bit more about current and planned activity levels and what you're seeing in the Permian basin? And specifically wondering if you had any update with respect to pilot programs in the Avalon and the Wolfcamp? Any comments there will be appreciated.
Well we yes we've got quite a bit of activity going on as Jeff described earlier we have 6 or 7 rigs running in the Permian basin and those are all targeting some of the existing conventional opportunities that we have.
But largely focused on the unconventionals.
It's mostly liquids investments in all of the Permians so we're active in piloting and drilling both the Wolfcamp and some of the other plays in the Permian basin.
So yes we're pretty active there right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also I had a strategic portfolio management type of question but Ryan as you look at the existing portfolio are there any gaps or areas where you're lacking exposure now that you would like to enhance your position? And then relatedly internationally the focus has largely been on OECD geographically for one at risk and that's worked well for you all.
And should we assume that that remains the case going forward? And that would -- would that preclude you from potentially entering some of these international plays that may offer significant long-term resource potential but do carry a higher risk profile? And I'm thinking of some plays like East Africa for one or even Kurdistan region of Iraq any comments there will be appreciated.
Well I mean as I look at the portfolio I'd say we're more after low-cost to supply opportunities whether that's gas or oil where we can make a competitive rate of return within our portfolio.
As I look at that today you see are heavily focused on unconventionals in North America because we see a lot of opportunity that are working well.
We've got a great position and so large part of our investments are going there.
But internationally I'd say as we've -- as you see from our exploration we're growing our deepwater position and that's not only in the Gulf of Mexico but also Angola and the subsalt opportunity there Bangladesh we're offshore Sabah island in Malaysia so you'll see some things that we're doing in the deepwater.
We think the liquids-focused deepwater investments make a lot of sense.
So I think as we think about it going around it's really opportunity by opportunity but looking for a good low-cost to supply and looking for areas.
So even playing the Barents Sea in Norway makes sense to us right now and you've seen us capture some acreage positions up there.
So I we -- in terms of holes don't think we have a hole that we're really trying to plug.
We're just really focused on value and focused the returns and making sure that what we do go after and capture competes well within our existing portfolio.
As you said we're largely OECD today so we can take on a little bit more risk in terms of political risk and something like that if we think the returns are going to be competitive.
Okay thank you everybody.
Go ahead Kim.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2012 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dan and I will be your operator for today’s call.
(Operator Instructions) Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Ms.
DeSanctis you may begin.
Thank you Kim and good afternoon everybody.
Welcome to the ConocoPhillips Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Today you’re going to hear from three of our senior executives: Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO will cover the third quarter highlights and provide an update on our strategic goals and priorities; Jeff Sheets our Executive Vice President and CFO will review the third quarter financial results including our segment financials; and we also have Matt on today’s call.
Matt is our Executive Vice President of Exploration and Production and he’s going to review the E&amp;P activities in each of our segments.
Please note today’s presentation materials can be found on our website and a transcript of this call should be posted by no later than tomorrow morning.
And finally we will be making some forward-looking statements during today’s webcast.
Our results may differ materially from the expectations we share today but we’ve outlined these uncertainties and risks to our future performance in the Safe Harbor Statement shown on Page 2 in the slide deck that you should have access to at this time and also in our periodic filings with the SEC.
Now it’s my pleasure to turn our call over to Ryan.
Thank you Ellen and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I’ll begin my comments on Slide 3 and cover some of our key third quarter highlights.
This quarter marked an exciting milestone and our first full quarter as an independent E&amp;P company.
As you saw from this morning’s release we posted strong performance this quarter and hitting our numbers is critical to achieving the goals we set for ourselves.
Really a special thanks to our employees will continue to step up and deliver.
We continue to make progress on our divestiture program.
Completing this program will improve our portfolio reset our base for future growth and add financial flexibility to the company.
In the third quarter we generated about $0.5 billion of proceeds from asset sales including our interest in (inaudible).
And we continue to advance our progress on other assets.
Year-to-date we have generated $2.1 billion in proceeds from asset dispositions.
A key part of our strategy is to grow organically.
Our exploration program continues to build momentum both on the unconventional and conventional sides of the business and Matt will talk more about these program shortly but I’m pleased to see these for grabs gaining speed.
Operationally we achieved the high end are estimated production range for the quarter at 1.525 million barrels equivalent per day.
This performance represents an important milestone for ConocoPhillips.
We achieved 3% year-on-year volume growth when adjusted for dispositions.
Key production highlights include ongoing strong performance from unconventional assets in the lower 48 especially the Eagle Ford and lower oil Sands in Canada.
In addition compared to year ago this quarter benefited from the resumption of production at Peng Lai and in Libya.
Our major projects are also progressing as planned and Matt will provide additional color on these in his comments.
As I move to the financial themes we generated $1.8 billion of adjusted earnings or $1.44 per share.
Our diversified product mix and geographic mix continues to buffer us somewhat from ongoing weaker North American natural gas and NGL prices.
Excluding working capital we achieved $3.9 billion in cash from operations.
And finally we improved our balance sheet this quarter lowering the debt-to-cap ratio to 31% from 33%.
So in summary we had a strong quarter strategically operationally and financially.
We stayed focused and delivered on the aspects of the business that we can control.
Now if you turn to Slide 4 I’ll quickly address the state of the business and how that our focus areas and priorities for the rest of the year and into 2013.
First and foremost the business is running well.
We completed our worldwide seasonal turnaround activities on time and on budget.
Our major projects and drilling programs are on track to deliver volume and margin growth.
These include our lower 48 and unconventional resource plays as well as our major growth projects in the Canadian oil Sands the North Sea projects in the U.K.
and Norway APLNG and our Malaysian deepwater prospects.
These are the major prospects that underpin our long-term goal is to deliver 3% to 5% production growth and margin expansion at flat prices.
As I mentioned a minute ago our exploration program is continuing to gain momentum.
We’re currently testing several unconventional and conventional opportunities and are advancing others quickly to the drill-ready stage.
Earlier this week it was announced that we acquired slots in a sixth generation rig to begin executing on our operated deepwater Gulf of Mexico program by 2014.
Again we are focused on completing our strategic asset disposition program.
We have several packages on the market and expects some of these assets will take a little bit of time to divest but we’re being patient and we remain committed to getting the program done at acceptable prices.
We believe we’re on track to deliver the $8 billion $10 billion of proceeds by the end of 2013.
So with a quarter to go in the year we now believe our capital spending will come between $15.5 billion and $16 billion a bit lower than we guided to in the second quarter.
Where we end up in this range depends on whether or not we find attractive opportunities to add unconventional acreage between now and year end.
We continue to be opportunistic in the market for acreage that fits well in our portfolio.
Maintaining our balance sheet strength is essential.
We continue to keep a close eye on our financial position to ensure that we have the flexibility and the capacity to execute our plan.
And finally we remain committed to our stated strategic goals of profitable growth and sector-leading returns.
I believe this gives a good quarter and gives good evidence that we’re executing on the parts of the business that we control and have projects and programs in hand to support these goals.
So now let me turn over the call to Jeff for a financial review.
Thank you Ryan and good afternoon everyone.
I’ll start out the review of our third quarter results with Slide 5 which shows our total adjusted earnings and prices.
Will go through the detail in each of our segments in subsequent slides and I’ll defer the operational detail and updates to Matt.
Total adjusted earnings were $1.8 billion this quarter compared to $1.5 billion in the prior period and $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2011.
Third quarter 2012 adjusted earnings excludes special items related to net gains on asset dispositions changes to tax laws in the U.K.
pension settlement expenses and some other items.
Details of these special items can be found in the supplemental data provided with our earnings release.
Our production came at the high end of the estimate we provided last quarter.
Total sales volumes for the quarter were in excess of production resulting in a favorable impact to earnings of approximately $80 million and we’ll discuss these details as we go through the segments.
Sequentially prices weren’t a huge driver in earnings.
North American gas and bitumen prices increased while domestic crude and NGL prices decreased.
Despite increases this quarter North American natural gas prices remained challenged and this impact – we continue to offset this impacted by shifting our investment towards liquids production.
Operating costs were consistent with our expectations.
Let’s turn to Slide 6 and talk about our total production.
Production of 1.525 million BOE per day was in line with our expectations.
Stepping to the waterfall dispositions reduced production by 53 000 BOE per day compared to the third quarter of last year.
The dispositions included Vietnam step here at Alba and some Western Canadian gas assets that as the Naryanmarneftegaz joint venture.
Down time was heavier than normal this reducing production by 49 000 BOE per day compared to the same quarter last year.
We had major turnarounds this quarter in Alaska and in the U.K.
Growth more than offset base decline accounting for 256 000 BOE per day of new production with the majority of the growth coming from the lower 48 shale plays and our oil sands assets.
We also had considerable production increases over these periods from Libya and China.
In summary volumes were up 3% adjusted for dispositions but importantly the 3% growth was largely driven by a 7% increase in liquids production as shown on the dark blue bars on the slide.
As we announced though this morning we now expect our full year 2012 production volumes to average between 1.57 million and 1.58 million BOE per day.
Now I’ll turn to the segment slides beginning with the lower 48 and Latin America on Slide 7.
Production in this segment was 462 000 BOE per day this quarter an increase over prior periods as we continue to successfully ramp up production in our lower 48 shale plays.
Total liquids production in the segment increased 21% over the same period a year ago while natural gas production decreased 3%.
A year ago liquids represented 40% of our production in this segment.
In the third quarter 2012 liquids increased to approximately 46%.
We expect this liquids percentage to continue to grow and drive our margin expansion over time.
During the quarter production was 76 000 per day it Eagle Ford with 79% liquids and 29 000 BOE per day in the Bakken with 88% liquids.
Total production of 102 000 BOE per day from these two plays has doubled compared to the same period last year.
Compared to the second quarter the increased liquids production along with the 26% increase in realized gas prices contributed positively to earnings in this segment while continued declines in NGL prices negatively impacted earnings.
Despite the sequential increase in natural gas prices the segment earnings continued be impacted by generally weak natural gas prices.
Next we moved to the Canada segment on Slide 8.
Canadian production was 277 000 per day in the third quarter with the growth over prior periods being driven by the ramp-up at our oil-sands assets.
Liquids production increased 30% year-over-year while gas price decreased by 6%.
And this shift will show up as improved margins over time.
Canada reported negative adjusted earnings this quarter largely reflecting ongoing weak natural gas prices.
However earnings were improved compared to the second quarter as natural gas and bitumen prices improved quarter-over-quarter.
We also saw the WTI WCS differential improve late in the quarter and the price of diluan decrease and this resulted in an overall improvement in pitchman netbacks.
And it should be noted that despite the negative earnings the Canada segment continues to generate strong cash flow.
Now let’s move to the Alaska segment on Slide 9.
Production in Alaska was 176 000 BOE per day this quarter down 39 000 per day but in line with our expectations.
This production decline was largely due to major turnaround activity all across our assets on the north slope.
The impact of lower production on earnings was offset by sales from inventory this quarter and these sales from inventories contributed approximately $120 million to the Alaska segment’s earnings.
As a result adjusted earnings of $535 million were roughly equivalent to the prior quarter and improved from a year ago.
I’ll now turn Slide 10 and talk about the Asia Pacific and the Middle East segment.
Asia Pacific and Middle East continue to be a strong performer for ConocoPhillips and provides important diversification to our portfolio.
Production in the segment was 306 000 BOE per day during the third quarter.
Both the Vilumunden field and they Darwin Allen Value plant were fully online this quarter after being down in the second quarter for planned maintenance.
Production continue to ramp up at Peng Lai increasing 20 000 BOE per day over the prior quarter.
We exited the quarter with net production of 45 000 BOE per day and we expect to maintain this level of production during the fourth quarter.
However we had again in Alaska on the left side from sales of inventory.
Asia Pacific and Middle East earnings were adversely impacted by about $60 million related to lift timings.
Europe’s our next segment and we’ll just cover that on Slide 11.
Production from the Europe segment was 191 000 per day during the quarter a sequential decrease of 45 000 per day.
Natural-field declines down-time and asset dispositions contributed to the lower production this quarter.
Down-time resulted in 28 000 BOE per day impacts primarily from planned maintenance at the Duty east IVC and Britannia platforms.
The majority of production that was off-line during the third quarter due to down-time should be back online during the fourth quarter.
The disposition impact was about 8 000 per day from Startured and Alba.
So adjusted earnings of $299 million declined versus the prior quarter primarily due to the slower production.
It’s important to note that we benefit in the portfolio sense from having exposure to the stronger pricing in this segment.
Now I’ll cover our next and final geographic segment the Other International on Slide 12.
So I’ll remind you that this segment includes our assets in Russia the Caspian and Africa.
Production was 113 000 BOE per day basically maintaining the same level of production that we’ve seen over the past couple of quarters since Libya came back online.
Adjusted earnings of $124 million this quarter were helped by favorable settlements of certain tax items.
Prior-quarter earnings were negatively impacted by higher taxes exploration expense and adverse foreign-exchange impacts.
The earnings were also impacted by the sale of NMNG in mid-August.
So at the time of the sale NMNG was producing about 11 000 BOE per day and was diluted to earnings.
The final reporting segment I’ll cover quickly is our Corporate and Other segment on Slide 13.
Adjusted corporate expense during the quarter was $139 million.
This is lower corporate expense then we expect to see going forward as the quarter benefited from licensing revenue as well as some favorable foreign-exchange impacts.
For the company overall total foreign exchange was not a factor in the total quarter’s earnings.
For the year we estimate this segment’s expense on an adjusted basis to be about $850 million.
We repaid $2 billion of debt during the quarter bring the total debt outstanding to $21.1 billion.
At the end of the quarter total debt-to-cap was 31% and our long-term target remains to be 25% to 30% range.
If you turn to Slide 14 I’ll cover our operating segment margins and returns.
Charts on this slide summarizes our key financial metrics for the quarter.
On a year-over-year basis all four metrics were negatively impacted by lower North American prices as well as our overall realize price declined by about $5 per BOE compared to the third quarter of last year.
Our income and cash contribution per BOE were helped this quarter by the inventory sales in Alaska but also reflected the operational and portfolio improvements that we’re starting to make as a company and over time we expect these metrics to improve as we deliver on our growth programs our margin expansions and our continued focus on returns.
So I’ll wrap up my remarks on Slide 15 which is our third quarter company cash flow.
As Ryan mentioned in his opening comments we generated $3.9 billion in cash from operations is quarter excluding working capital.
Working capital was a $412 million use of cash.
We also generated $522 million proceeds from asset dispositions.
We funded a $3.7 billion capital program bringing our year-to-date capital program to $11.9 billion.
We paid out roughly $800 million of dividends and reduced debt by about $2 billion.
During the quarter excluding working capital our cash from operations and proceeds from dispositions funded our dividend payments our capital program and we used our restricted cash to pay down debt.
We ended the quarter with $3.7 billion of cash equivalents and restricted cash.
Our balance sheet and financial situation remains strong.
We’re well-positioned execute on our program.
Importantly we have capacity and flexibility to fund the programs that will generate volume and margin growth going forward.
That concludes the review of our financial results and I’ll now turn the call over to Matt for an update on our operations.
Thanks Jeff.
I’ll take us back through our operating segments and provide some detail on our drilling programs growth projects and both our conventional and unconventional exploration activities.
I’ll cover some highlights from the third quarter but also update you on current activities and provide some color of what expect in the near future.
I’ll start with the lower 48 and Latin America segment on Slide 16.
First I’ll focus on two key areas the Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
In the Eagle Ford we have about 230 000 net acreages and our acreage is largely located in the Condensate Fairway which the industry recognizes as the best part of the play.
We have 14 rigs running in the play today.
In the third quarter our production averaged 76 000 BOE per day and we achieved a peak production rate and 86 000 BOE per day.
In the fourth quarter we expect to achieve the peak rate of 100 000 a day as we continue to drill and pick up wells.
And we are actively adding infrastructure in the play to create value.
For example we’re adding stabilization facilities like the ones shown on the top left to remove light ends maximize our light crude sales at pipeline spec and to maximize or capture of NGLs.
We should have an entire Eagle Ford possession held by production by the end of 2013 and that’s important because it allows us flexibility to find new technologies and thoughtfully determine the most capital efficient way.
Switching now to the Bakken we have more than 620 000 acres in this liquids rich play that’s all held by production.
We exited the quarter with the production rate of 26 000 BOE per day and as a result of incremental takeaway capacity from new rail facilities we’ve ramped up from five to eight rigs and we’ll see the benefit of this increased activity in the fourth quarter and in 2013.
We also have significant exploration activity underway in other unconventional plays in the lower 48 including the Wolfcamp and the Delaware and Midland Basins the Avalon Shale the Louis Shale in Wyoming the Niobrara and the Mancos in the San Juan Basin.
We expect our results in these place by early next year.
And I should note that these are just a few of the opportunities we’re evaluating in our vast lower 48 land possession.
We continue to identify other potential plays where we can acquire unconventional acreage at the low entry prices.
Moving onto Conventional Exploration we have some significant activities underway in the Gulf of Mexico Deepwater and continue to build a portfolio of future opportunities there.
Just for some context we have 1.5 million Deepwater acres in the Gulf making ConocoPhillips the sixth largest Deepwater acreage holder there.
Our initial strategy for this area has been to participate in non-operated wells by building a COP operated portfolio.
Currently we’re building two non-operated wells the Coronado prospect and the Shenandoah appraisal well.
We’re also just about to spud a third well Humber.
It’s a supply and exploration well.
And we anticipate four additional exploration wells spudding in 2013 along with the Tyber appraisal well.
And the potential for additional appraisal wells exist if we have success with our exploration wells.
So we’re really excited about our 2013 program in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our long-term strategy is to build an attractive operated lease position that will allow us to drill three to six wells a year.
And to advance our operating program that was announced on Tuesday that we’ve secured access to a new Deepwater drillship to use across our operated portfolio starting in 2014.
Please go to Slide 17 and we’ll talk about the Canada segment.
Our oil sands assets in Canada are a big part of our growth story.
In fact we are currently the second largest SAGD producer in Canada with 23% of total SAGD production.
And our assets continue to perform well.
Christina Lake Phase D reached first production in July three months ahead of schedule.
Foster Creek is performing well.
And Surmont Phase I achieved record production in September.
As a result third quarter bitumen production was 92 000 barrels per day net after royalty.
And we expect production to average over 100 000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter.
Continued expansion in FCCL is ongoing and construction of Surmont Phase II is progressing towards first production in 2015.
Surmont is a large-scale development.
When it’s ramped up to full production the project will produce at a gross annual average rate of 110 000 BOE per day equivalent to about 3 typical FCCL phases.
And we continue to expand.
For example the sanction the Narrows Lake Phase A and Christina Lake Phase F are anticipated by year-end.
The application of new technology is critical to the development of SAGD because it can add significant value due to the size of our resource base there.
So we’re starting an enhanced SAGD pilot in November.
And we’re actively testing several other technologies that will increase rates and reduce steam/oil ratio.
Moving to our Western Canada business unit here our drilling program is focused on liquids rich and light oil opportunities in our portfolio.
And we’re also drilling or planning exploration wells in several of our unconventional plays in Canada including the Duvernay Montney and Horn River.
In addition to that we’re preparing for a winter exploration program in the Canol oil play in the Northwest Territories where we hold more than 200 000 net acres.
And like the lower 48 we hold a significant amount of land throughout Western Canada that’s held by production.
And we believe some of this acreage could be prospective for additional tight oil and share liquid plays.
So let’s finish out North America with Alaska on Slide 18.
Major turnarounds were successfully completed at Kuparuk Britto and Alpine this quarter.
In fact Kuparuk was completed 14 days ahead of schedule.
In October the ConocoPhillips Board approved the North Slope’s Alpine West project also known as CD5.
The project is now pending patent approval which we expect in November and production will start from Alpine West in 2016.
As you may seen in the press we’re working with the other producers in Alaska to evaluate LNG exports from the North Slope.
The Producer group has been focusing on narrowing down development concepts and assessing the cost of the major project components.
In the Chukchi Sea we’re targeting drilling the Devil’s Four prospect in 2014.
Now this prospect is in the 155 feet of water.
So it can be drilled with a jack-up break with service BOPs and a prepositioned capping device on the seafloor.
We continue to invest around $1 billion a year of net capital such as Alpine West and infill drilling programs across the North Slope.
Significant additional oil development and opportunities exist contingent upon more competitive state fiscal counts.
So let’s move to Slide 19 the Asia Pacific &amp; Middle East segment.
We produce more than 300 000 barrels per day from this region and it’s an area of significant growth for us over the next five years.
We continue to make progress with the Australia Pacific LNG project.
The project remains on track with premise scope and cost and is on schedule for the mid-2015 start up of train one and 2016 start of train two.
Now we track project progress in three main categories here: upstream midstream and downstream.
In upstream all major contracts for gas processing and water treatment plants and associated gathering systems are fully executed and module fabrication and drilling are progressing.
In midstream the main pipeline work is in progress with right-of-way clearing grading and pipeline streaming proceeding as planned.
The downstream development of the LNG at Crackus Island is also proceeding as planned with engineering progress ahead of schedule and all construction access dredging and mainland facilities completed in third quarter.
At Poseidon Boreas-1 was a successful appraisal well reaching target depth on September 18 with encouraging results.
The well was drill stem-tested at just over 30 million cubic feet a date against a flowing tubing head pressure of 3 300 psi.
Drilling operations will now begin on the second well of the program in November and this is part of five-well appraisal program that we will conduct over the next two years.
In the Canning Basin we drilled and cored our first well.
The well was drilled to about 12 000 feet and 1 400 feet of core was collected.
This is the first of a three-well program that will be completed by mid 2013.
In China our net production at Peng Lai reach 45 000 BOE per day at the end of the third quarter and production should remain fairly steady at that level for the remainder of the year.
The first well at our Panyu Growth project came on in late September.
Current Panyu production is about 8 000 barrels of oil per day net and this project will add another 8 000 barrels per day between now and 2014 as we drill additional wells from the two new platforms.
We now have four major projects in execution in Malaysia: Gumusut; Seacap North Bohai; KBB in Malikai which were recently approved.
First oil is expected from an early production system at Gumusut in the fourth quarter of this year.
SNP in Gumusut full production will start in late 2013.
The start up of the others will be staggered between 2014 and 2017.
We’re also working on several other project developments in Malaysia and we have the potential to significantly grow this business over the next five to 10 years.
Due to recently renegotiated gas sales contracts in Indonesia we will see significant increases to our realized gas prices for both on the Tennessee Block B sales to Malaysia and of Corridor block sales to the Indonesian domestic market.
Now these price improvements positively impact the value of both assets and increase the attractiveness of additional investment in these PSEs.
Finally in this segment conventional exploration in Bangladesh.
There we’ve completed shifting seismic and we expect to complete the processing this year.
Please turn to Slide 20 and I’ll provide an update on our Europe segment.
We are focused on progressing our major projects in Europe.
In the U.K.
we completed a major turnaround at Judy that included preparing for the tie-in of the Jasmine project and we installed the associated pipeline and jackets.
Development drilling results at Jasmine are exceeding expectations and we expect first oil in the second half 2013.
In the U.K.
we’re also planning a five-well exploration and appraisal program at Greater Clair.
In Norway we installed jackets bridges and bridge support for the Ekofisk South project and commenced pre-drilling activities this quarter.
We’ve also progressed modifications to existing facilities on Ekofisk and Eldfisk in preparation for tie-in of the new facilities.
First production for Ekofisk and Eldfisk II are expected in late 2013 and late 2014 respectively.
In Poland we exercised our option to acquire a 70% interest in Lane Energy and assumed operatorship of three Western Baltic Basin concessions for an additional exploration well that’s currently being drilled.
The final segment I’ll cover Other International on Slide 21.
As we mentioned earlier we completed the sale of our 30% interest in NMNG.
Our Libya production returned to pre-conflict levels.
The third quarter average was 47 000 barrels per day.
Additionally the fire and gas seals agreement was executed in early September and this will result in a production increase of about 4 000 BOE per day for the rest of 2012 and going forward.
In Kazakhstan Caspian production is expected to be online in the first half of 2013.
We completed our seismic on Angola blocks 36 and 37.
Air blocks are immediately outboard of the Camia discovery in block 21 and we’re encouraged by what we’ve already seen in the seismic.
Drilling is expected to start in 2014.
I’ll conclude my prepared remarks by reiterating the things you’ve heard consistently today.
Operationally the team is staying focused on executing the base business while successfully funding our emerging growth programs.
We’re also seeing the payoff from the past few years of opportunity catcher both in our unconventional drilling programs and our conventional major projects.
Our expiration team is done a great job not only building up our opportunity set but advancing our current inventory to a drill-ready stage.
So I echo Ryan’s early comments about how much there is to look forward to over the next few quarters and beyond.
Now I’ll turn the call back over to Ryan for some closing comments.
Thanks Matt.
If I could get you up to turn to Slide 22 for some summary comments.
The most important takeaway I think from today’s call is that the business is running well and that our plans are on track and I’m pleased with our performance in our first full quarter as an independent E&amp;P company.
We remain highly focused on executing our major projects and our drilling programs and we’re also building and testing our conventional and unconventional exploration portfolio.
I think Matt’s overview should give you confidence that we’re making strong progress on these activities.
We’re also executing on the strategic asset disposition program.
When complete these asset sales will improve our portfolio and create financial flexibility.
This flexibility is core to our strategy and you’ve heard from Jeff that maintaining a strong balance sheet is and remains a top priority.
The bottom line our long-term value proposition remains unchanged.
We believe we have the portfolio and the programs to deliver 3% to 5% growth in production and margins with improving absolute financial returns and a sector leading yield.
This is our commitment and we’re on track to deliver it.
We’re also committed to keep you updated on our progress.
We expect to announce our 2013 capital budget in December and our year-end reserves and financial results early next year.
And finally I’d like to encourage all of you to save the date for our first Analyst Meeting as an independent E&amp;P company.
We’ll host our meeting in New York on February 28 and will provide a detailed update of our strategic plans for growth and value creation.
So thank you for your interest and participation this afternoon and we look forward to your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) At this time we have a question from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey everyone.
Congratulations on the results.
It certainly feels that confidence in 2016 growth and that margin improvement is building.
I guess I have a question just looking beyond 2016.
I mean as you look across the portfolio do think nonconventional shale is enough? Or what should we focus most on do you think in this sort of pre-drill potential of the offshore portfolio? Thanks Ed.
I appreciate the comments.
I think as we look out beyond 2016 that’s the work that we’re alluded to in the operating update is working both on the conventional and in conventional side of the Expiration business.
So I think you watch both those spaces globally in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater and in North America and we hope globally in the unconventional space as well.
We’re working that pretty hard right now to load up the inventory for the latter half of this decade.
And then a sort of more specific question just coming in on that Eagle Ford obviously you’ve got some good production performance there.
Can you just remind us what acre spacing you’re planning your production on? And any IP targets that are behind that target? Because it feels like if you’re already about 100 about 110 000 barrels a day guidance on 2013 that the well performance or the efficiency or something is changing that means you’re ahead.
So we have that 230 000 acres in total and we’re currently thinking that the ultimate spacing will be about 80 acres so that’s what we’re planning for.
And that results in about 1.8 billion BOE associated with the play.
But we have pilot tests going on several pilot tests going on in Eagle Ford where we’re testing different technologies and different spacing.
So that might change over time as we learn more.
Our IPs have continued to be in the order of 1200 plus barrels a day.
And we’re seeing strong IPs compared to the industry average.
We think the completions are working well there.
And just to confirm those IPs what time period? 30 days.
Right.
Yeah they would be pretty good.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Ed.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson from ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everybody and congratulations on your results.
Thank you Doug.
Ryan you mentioned a minute ago that the underlying production growth was 3% in Q3.
And it looks like we’re going to have another 3% gain in Q4.
So the first question is whether or not that’s your expectation for Q4 as well? And then second obviously higher production is important.
But your profitability and returns were near the highest level of the year during the third quarter as well.
So I wanted to see if you could specify some of the functional and/or geographical drivers behind the improvement in the returns as well? Well thanks Doug.
Yeah we gave you kind of a range for the full year and expect us to come kind of in that range pretty well.
So you can see the growth is coming in the fourth quarter.
And I think as we look across the portfolio we came out of the turnaround season pretty well.
We’ve added rigs in China and Libya in the Canadian business unit and then the ramp-up in the unconventionals in the U.S.
are providing a lot of the production growth that we’re seeing in the third and the fourth quarter.
And then those areas are also as we see prices bouncing around differentials bouncing around as well those areas have largely led to the income and the margin improvements that we’re seeing as well.
Primarily China coming back in the growth and both North American unconventionals and the Canadian oil sands.
Okay.
And then also administratively the exit rate for NMNG was 20 000 25 000 barrels per day.
Is that about right? No the exit rate was probably closer to 11 000 for us.
Oh okay.
So yeah.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Doug.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John P.
Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Just some quick ones.
With the Eagle Ford how long are the laterals? And how many drilled but unfracked wells do you have currently but inventoried? The laterals are typically 5 000 feet.
I don’t know how many off the top of my head how many we have drilled and then not hooked up yet.
But we have quite a few that we’re waiting to hook up over the next quarter and at the end of Q1.
Okay.
That’s great.
In terms of your expenditures if you’re going to split it between conventional and unconventional is 40% a good estimate for unconventional? It’s CapEx exposure? Yeah that’s a reasonable next move if we were going under unconventionals in our planning.
Okay.
Last one for me is Poland shale.
You’ve had other companies exit.
Why are you optimistic? Well we still see potential in that sort of pari-Baltic region of Poland where we’re drilling just now.
The time will tell.
We’re testing a different part of the play moving a bit farther north towards the Baltic with the oil that we’re drilling just now.
And so we’ll see how that works out.
Thanks Matt.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Just right at the end you said something I just wanted to clarify which was that you’re targeting a sector-leading yield? Can you just kind of run through that? Because it’s not actually on the slides that I see.
Well I think as we think about it Paul today we’re yielding 4.5% or so given where our stock price is.
And as we think about our peer group as a mix between independents and the major integrates we think the yield that the dividend will underpin for the stock will be at the upper end of all that peer group.
Now some of that European integrates will be a little bit higher but we are relative to a mix of peers in the integrated and the independent side we think it’s one that falls at the top end.
And it’s an important part of our value proposition.
We’re committed to maintaining that kind of a dividend.
So you’re committed to maintaining the yield at the higher end of the range? Well I mean the yield will – we expect the stock price to grow so the yield will probably come down a little bit.
We’re committed to maintaining the dividend that we’ve announced and where we’re at today.
You guys have got an Analysts Meeting next Feb right? I’m just not quite sure about the dividend policy because I think you’ve got dividend as your top cash priority and you have said that you want to grow the dividend I’m not sure exactly what you said on the percentage aim for that if anything? Then I guess the yield is not with all due respect not quite what you meant.
Because obviously it would be a different thing if you were targeting a better class or upper range yields.
Yeah so Paul what we’re talking about is what we said is we’ll allocate 20% to 25% of our cash flows on an ongoing basis back to the shareholder and we’ll do that primarily through the ordinary dividend.
And we expect over time as our production grows and our margins grow that our cash flows are going to grow as well so I think what we say is we ought to expect modest increases in the dividend as we go forward over the next five years and deliver on the program that we’ve outlined to the market.
We probably won’t grow as fast as what the dividend has grown over the last ten years in the integrated company but as we look forward over the next five as our cash flows grow and our margins grows so shall our cash flows grow.
And our commitment to our shareholders remains the same.
We’re going to distribute that percentage of our cash back to them.
Yeah that’s great.
I understand now.
And the yield will be hopefully the share price will increase and the yield might come down a little bit.
Sorry I was just picking you up on that.
But it wasn’t actually written down so I couldn’t be sure.
I understand now.
Just my second follow-up.
Back to the Australia LNG you kind of started down the road of explaining where we were on costs and progress.
Could you just remind us what the total project cost is expected to be when the critical moments are for activity? If I give you an example Chevron’s global project will have its peak activity level next Q2 2013? Could you talk about where if you’d like where the level of risk lies on the timeframe going forward and where you see the overall project costs? And you began to break that down between your three segments of where the costs lie.
Can you talk a bit more around those and I think you talked about the extent to which you were contracted but I was wondering if you could go through some completion levels and so on.
Thanks.
I’ll let Matt jump in as well.
We’re still at a two-train $20 billion project for APL and GMX.
That’s upstream downstream midstream all combined up.
We haven’t seen any indication.
That’s with without FX considerations which might move around a little bit over the course of the next four of five years as we complete the scope.
I’d say we’re ramping up to peak kind of rates.
I think we probably hit there into 2013 and into 2014 is when we start with our peak manpower both on Curtis Island and what we’re doing on the upstream side of the project as well.
The project is on track in terms of the progress.
The critical path’s intact and we’re quite comfortable with the way things are working just now on the APLNG.
And given the critical path when will be the maximum points of risk over the next coming quarters or whatever? As we go through the critical path for example one of the things on the critical path there any LNG project is typically the LNG tanks themselves and they’re ahead of plan.
We basically were to the critical path there’s always the sort of individual milestones that you want to meet but we’re comfortable that we’re on track to do that.
And if we roll that up into the completion numbers so far where would we’d be? I think you might’ve said that actually sorry.
Project completion number as in the capital cost? Yes.
Exactly.
What percentage is kind of done? Percent complete just now for the total project is about 20% I think.
20% to 25%.
Yeah maybe it’s 22%.
But it’s that order of magnitude.
Jim? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hello Faisel.
Hi.
When we look at what’s going on in North America today there seems to be a lot of asset transactions taking place.
I just want to get your guys’ update on acquisitions? I know you’re divestiture plan is fairly straightforward but I just want to get your update on how you’re thinking about? Also acquisitions given all the transactions we’ve seen of late? And then I have a follow-up after that.
Yeah thanks Faisel.
I think of the acquisition side we’re mostly focused on acreage acquisitions and have been over the last year so.
I think we added a bit over 700 000 net acres to the portfolio in the last year.
So what we’re focused on is trying to identify these unconventional plays early so we can be a very early mover and get into more of the ground floor type of opportunity rather than getting in after pilots have been done and the resource then derisked and drilling has started to occur to develop it.
The price goes up pretty dramatically when you reach that stage.
So our effort has really been focused on the organic side and capturing our opportunities early.
And in the Gulf of Mexico are you pretty satisfied with your position? If assets were for sale would you take a look at them? I don’t think we’re ever satisfied with our position.
We continually look for opportunities to improve it or consolidate our positions and bulk up what we like and farm out what we don’t like.
Okay.
Understood.
And looking at the Eagle Ford and the Bakken positions in your prepared remarks you talked about how you’re developing some infrastructure.
What is that infrastructure spend exactly? And when is that going to come to an end over the next I guess in the future? So this year we’re spending around $600 million or $700 million on infrastructure I’m not exactly sure what the numbers are for next year but it’s mostly a 2012-2013 expenditure to kind of build the backbone through our acreage as we develop that whole acreage position.
Okay.
If I’m just thinking about the projects that have been sanctioned – I’m thinking about reserve bookings it seems like you’ve got some additional sanctioning in Canada.
You’ve got the Alpine West you said.
And then you also went forward with the second train of APLNG.
Are those kind of the big things I’m thinking about? And how would I also think that the Eagle Ford where you have 1.8 billion barrels of oil equivalent in place? So we’ll see reserve bookings at the end of the year associated with the ones that you listed plus we expect to see our proved preserves in Eagle Ford increase.
We also sanctioned the Malikai project in Malaysia so we’ll see reserves increase there.
And there’ll be some puts and takes on various other assets but those are the major reserve additions that we expect.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks for the time.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Faisel.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Folks good afternoon.
Congratulations on the results.
I have a couple for you one is a little bit more detail but I noticed the lower 48 natural gas production increased fairly sizably.
I’m trying to determine I know there was gas that was previously shut in.
Can you say whether that was a result of that gas coming back on line? Or maybe you could just answer where you stand today with regard to shut-in gas? So we don’t have any significant volume showing at all now.
So some of that increase is gas coming back on line but the majority of it is increases in associated gas production with our liquids-rich plays for example Eagle Ford.
Okay.
Second question is on oil sands in general.
There’s been an awful lot of press reports on assets being marketed from you guys up there and I know you are probably unwilling to share too much.
But I’m just curious if you could talk in general how the oil sands fits into the portfolio? Yeah I think the oil sands are important in our portfolio.
The important growth of the margins are good and they have a different profile obviously relative to some of the other assets but important in complimenting a large portfolio like ConocoPhillips has.
We have gone out looking at marketing some of our oil sand positions primarily some of our Surmont.
And it’s over 100% acreage we have outside of the area.
We’ve got a lot of interest in it.
And in fact we’ve got enough so that we got proposed a number of different structures.
So we’re stepping back for a minute and taking a look at what might work best for ConocoPhillips as we think about our options that we have with our position in Canada.
Okay Ryan.
But just to be clear we shouldn’t view that as potentially a full exit out of oil sands right? No.
Okay.
So I’ll slip in one last one I know you’re in the conceptual phase of ANF gas LNG out of Alaska.
Obviously you have a very decent position up in Western Canada there as well.
I’m just curious are you exploring options for LNG exports out of Western Canada? Or are you just really focused on Alaska at this point? Thanks.
I’d say we’re mostly focus on Alaska Mike.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi gentlemen.
Sorry (inaudible) Just a couple questions please I think you talked about natural gas price improvements coming in Indonesia and Libya.
And you can see that your Libyan realization has picked up substantially.
So just interested in why that is.
And also on the Indonesian side is that something we’ve got to look forward to? Or is that something which has already happened? On Indonesia it’s really something we have to look forward to and both the Malaysia contracts and the domestic Indonesia contracts you should start to see those coming through the fourth quarter.
Is that something structural or was it an oil price affect? Or what is that? It’s a renegotiation of the gas contract from Malaysia because Petronas wanted to secure more gas and because the Indonesian government wants to incentivize more development of the domestic production in Indonesia.
So they’re moving towards a more market-based pricing.
So those are really the drivers.
Okay.
And what happened and Libya? You mean the fera gas contract but that didn’t happen until September.
We had a little bit of that in the third quarter but if you are looking at the realized price per (inaudible) in Libya we started to sell gas under that contract.
Okay.
Second question is I’m just wondering how you feel about your U.K.
North Sea portfolio.
You’ve obviously got a couple of developments there.
But you’re also I think going to sell some assets with the tax increases et cetera.
Are you kind of net seller now of the U.K.
or are you after this disposal which is in the works? Or is there something else coming? Well no I think we’ve been pretty pleased.
So the North Sea and the U.K.
sector you’ve got to divide that into three areas the Central Graven the stuff we have up west of Shetlands with our Claire interest in the East Ireland Sea and the southern North Sea that we have.
We did try to market our southern North Sea position a little bit earlier in the year but that got hung up with a bunch of changes that were occurring in the government in the U.K.
side with taxes and abandonment liability and some of those issues.
But the core area that we still like and remain to think there’s still opportunity there things like Jasmine developments that tie into our existing infrastructure so we see additional opportunity off the Brittania platform bringing more wells and additional satellites into production in the Brittania area.
And we’re currently exploring in the area for more Jasmine look-alikes.
Okay.
Did you pick up any licenses today Luc in the license room? I don’t know if we did.
I haven’t been informed if we have or not.
Okay.
All right guys.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Iain.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
I have a number of soft questions hopefully.
Matt or Jeff for the APLNG on the $20 billion what is the percentage that is the Australian dollar-based and what FX rate are you using in the budget if you can remind me? It somewhere between 50% and 60% Australian dollar and I don’t know that we have a particular FX rate that we’re going to quote in the budget.
I see.
Matt how many Matt wells you already drilled in Poland? And is there any result that you can share from those wells? We’ve drilled a total of four wells three in the pari-Baltic region and then we’ve got one more that we’re drilling just now but I’m not really ready to talk about the results at the time on those wells yet.
I see.
Ryan I know that you don’t give the budget in December.
If you’re looking at right now did you expect the budget would be pretty similar to this year? Or that is going to be higher or lower? I’d say it’s in the range of where we’re at this year.
Okay.
Jeff on the corporate expense do you have a guidance that for 2013 2014 what type of run rate that normal quarter may look like? Yeah maybe just a couple words about our corporate segment.
So with the spine and the way we realigned our segments some of those things that didn’t used to be in corporate are in corporate now particularly some of the technology operations so that’s going to introduce a little bit of volatility to corporate numbers.
When you think about kind of core corporate which is made up primarily of net interest expense and kind of corporate G&amp;A that’s going to be around I would say $220 million a quarter more or less but there’s going to be probably more volatility in the corporate number than you might have been used to seeing in the past.
Jeff that’s an after-tax number right? Yeah that’s an after-tax income number.
Right Paul.
And Matt I’m just curious.
Is there any core key difference between your consolidate bitumen output and your equity of (inaudible) bitumen output? So in other words when we’re looking at estimating the pricing the implied bitumen pricing is there any core key differences that we should assume that there would be differences? Well basically you can think of three different areas.
Some ore produces a synbit so the bitumen is blended with the synthetic.
The FCCL assets both blend with the condensate.
So as condensate prices and synthetic prices move around that affects the net (inaudible).
Within the FCCL Christina Lake has a higher TAN content Foster Creek.
so as a result it sees a bit of a discount to the blend it sells.
But roughly speaking at current prices the net mark at Surmont and Foster Creek are about the same and the net mark at Christina Lake is a bit less because of this high TAN content.
Matt have you guys received a final approval to restart fully on Peng Lai from the Chinese? We have submitted an EIA application and overall development plan revised the overall development plan.
We expect the approval shortly from both of those.
Thank you.
A final on.
Jeff on the inventory standpoint at the end of the third quarter are you guys still under it over it? Or should we assume pretty much that you catch up by now? Yeah when you have an operation the size of ours and you’ve got a lot of liftings happening oil liftings happening in places like Europe and Alaska and in Asia every quarter you’re going to have a little bit of fluctuation between the amount that you sell and the amount that you produce and it’s going to go plus and minus.
I mean generally we’re in a balanced position but we talked in the first quarter that we had about an $80 million negative impact from timing.
We’ve come out this quarter we said about an $80 million positive impact from timing.
We’re likely to see that order of magnitude.
Types of swings can happen just because – through normal operations of timing of when...
Sure.
Fully understand that.
From an inventory standpoint your are pretty balanced at end of the third quarter? Right.
Again we’ll have pluses and minuses.
Particularly when you look at particular segments you can have pluses and minuses just as part of your normal operations.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I want to go back to one of the earlier questions about the dividend.
Your long-term growth target of 3% to 5% and your simultaneous target of having one of the highest dividends in the industry if you discover that both cannot be done at the same time which do you choose? Well we set our priority on our funding is with the dividend.
So I guess what’s the minimum acceptable level for organic growth? In other words would be willing to take that down to 2% to 4%? 1% to 3%? Or is the dividend unambiguously what you would choose regardless? We would like to be here in 10 years saying we’ve had steady dividend raises every year over an extended period of time.
How fast we grow the dividend is going to be a function of how fast cash flows actually grow.
We sit today at one of the higher dividends and we’ve had some very strong dividend growth over the past decade.
I think what we’re saying is we expect to have dividend growth going forward.
It won’t be at the same pace that has been the past but that’s a key part of our delivering to the shareholders.
And we really can’t sit here today and tell you exactly what the dividend growth rate is going to be going forward.
It’s an important part of what we offer the shareholders.
Okay.
I appreciate guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
That concludes the time that we have a question-and-answer session.
I’ll now turn the call back to Ellen DeSanctis for closing remarks.
Thank you Kim and thank you everybody.
If there were folks in the queue that we didn’t get to Ryan and I are obviously more than happy to cover up the questions off line.
Thank you very much for your interest and we look forward to ongoing communications in December and certainly in the early part of the year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q4 2012 ConocoPhillips’ Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine and good morning to all our participants today.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 conference call.
Today you will be hearing from three of our executives; Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO will make some brief opening and closing comments to cover the full year 2012 results and some priorities for 2013; Jeff Sheets our EVP and CFO will review the fourth quarter and the full year financial results including our segment financials; and he will be followed by Matt Fox our EVP of Exploration and Production.
Matt will review our year end reserves performance and provide some color on E&amp;P activities for the fourth quarter in each of our segments.
Please note that today’s presentation materials can be found on our website.
A transcript to this call will be also posted later today we hope not by tomorrow.
And then in the final reminder on Page 2 of our presentation deck you will find our Safe Harbor statements.
We will be making some forward-looking statements this morning.
Results could differ materially from the expectations we share today and we’ve described those uncertainties and risks to our future performance in our Safe Harbor statements and in our periodic filings with the SEC.
With that out of the way I’ll turn the call over to Ryan Lance.
Thank you Ellen and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Let me kick off the meeting today with a review of our key 2012 highlights and accomplishments.
And certainly the strategic highlight of the year was the spin-off our downstream business Phillips 66 which occurred in May.
And following that transaction we emerged as North America’s largest independent E&amp;P Company.
And we set out to combine our world-class assets technology financial strength and workforce with an intense focus on the E&amp;P business.
We laid out an ambitious goal to achieve both growth and returns while offering a compelling dividend and we remain committed to that goal.
Achieving this goal depends not only on executing or identified growth programs but on executing a major divestiture program to high-grade asset base.
And during 2012 we made significant progress on this program.
We completed asset sales of $2.1 billion and recently announced agreements for an additional $9.6 billion of dispositions.
These proceeds will give us the flexibility to fund our significant growth programs over the next few years.
And a key part of our ongoing value proposition is to maintain a focus on our shareholders.
We achieved strong shareholder returns during 2012 especially combining the performance of ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66.
That strategic performance was matched with strong operational results.
We met our volume targets in 2012 achieving a total annual production rate of 1.578 million BOE per day with growth on a continuing operations basis and we are on track to deliver the plans we laid out in April of last year.
We recognize that 2013 would be a low point in production and we expect growth in the fourth quarter due to major project start-ups and continued ramp up in our North American drilling programs.
And this sets us up for our long-term 3% to 5% growth objective.
We grow our reserve base to 8.6 billion BOEs and organic conditions this year were 942 million BOE and that represents a 150% reserve replacement rate a significant achievement for a company our size.
Throughout the year the business ran well our major projects and drilling programs performed as expected and importantly we built momentum in both our conventional and unconventional exploration programs and these are key to creating long-term value in this business.
For the full-year we generated $6.7 billion of adjusted earnings or $5.37 per share from continuing operations and we generated $14.7 billion in cash from continuing operations excluding working capital.
We returned over $8 billion to our shareholders; $5.1 billion of share repurchases and $3.3 billion in ordinary dividends.
Our per share performance for the year reflects roughly a 10% reduction in share count compared to 2011.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff let me take a moment to acknowledge the hard work and the dedication of our ConocoPhillips workforce.
Despite the year of major change they maintained their focus on the business and they delivered on all fronts and I’m very proud of their performance and their commitment to our strong start as an independent company.
So I’ll come back with some concluding remarks.
So let me now turn it over to Jeff for the financial review.
Thank you Ryan and good morning everyone.
I’ll start with a review of our fourth quarter financial results on slide four.
We reported adjusted earnings of $1.76 billion or $1.43 a share for the fourth quarter 2012.
The special items this quarter that we excluded from our reported earnings from an Asian adjusted earnings included some asset impairments certain tax items and legal settlements as well as adjustments for discontinued operations.
These adjustments totaled $329 million and the details can be found in the supplemental data that we provided with the earnings release.
As a result of the announced agreements to sell our interest in the Kashagan Field and the Algeria and Nigeria business units we accreted earnings and production associated with these assets as discontinued operations for the current quarter as well as previous quarters.
Adjusted earnings in the fourth quarter from these assets would have been $27 million during the quarter or $0.02 a share and our adjusted earnings per share would have been $1.45 without this change.
The earnings chart and realized price data on this slide now reflect continuing operations for all the periods and except where we specifically noted this is going to be our convention as we go through today’s call.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 our adjusted earnings were down by 14% primarily due to lower liquids prices higher DD&amp;A expense which was offset primarily by higher volumes.
Our per share earnings in this year’s fourth quarter benefited from a 7% reduction in share count compared to last year’s fourth quarter.
Compared to the third quarter adjusted fourth quarter earnings were up 3% due to higher volumes and a slight improvement in realized prices.
Production volumes for the quarter met our targets.
We achieved solid performance across most of the portfolio and resumed production in several segments following the third quarter plant maintenance.
The year-over-year average realized prices for the quarter were down about $3 a barrel but up about $1 in the third quarter compared to fourth quarter.
Our bitumen and NGL prices declined during the year and remained weak.
In the fourth quarter bitumen represented about 7% of our production in North American NGL has also represented about 7% of world wide production.
Clearly it’s been a significant amount of volatility and price markers through the year.
But if you look across our overall portfolio realizations were relatively stable.
Finally operating cost came in about as we expected them for the year.
Now turn to slide 5 and I’ll review fourth quarter production performance.
This waterfall takes you through the changes in production from the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the current quarter.
You can see the split here production from continuing operations and from discontinued operations and I’ll step through the key items here and Matt is going to provide some additional details in his material.
Total production from continuing and discontinuing operations was 1.607 million BOE per day in this year’s fourth quarter which was in line with our expectation.
So starting at the left of the chart stepping through the waterfall dispositions reduced production by 55 000 BOE per day compared to the fourth quarter last year.
And those 2012 dispositions included Vietnam the Statjford and Alba fields in the North Sea some Western Canadian assets and NMG a joint venture in Russia.
Downtime accounted for 40 000 BOE per day of lower production compared to the downtime experienced in last year’s fourth quarter.
And the downtime primarily occurred in Nigeria the UK and some in the Lower 48.
Natural field declines were about 152 000 BOE per day an incremental production compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
The largest component of this growth wedge is new production from our Lower 48 Eagle Ford and Bakken plays and new production from our Canadian oil sands developments.
Improved drilling programs and performance across our portfolio the resumption of full production in Libya and some incremental volumes from the Peng Lai field in China also contributed to the growth in production.
On a continuing operations basis production for this year’s fourth quarter was 1.566 million BOE per day compared to 1.483 million BOE per day in last year’s fourth quarter when you adjust that quarter for dispositions.
So this represents a 6% growth overall.
And additionally liquids as a percent of our portfolio from continuing operation increased between the two periods.
So if you turn to slide 6 we’ll cover some production guidance for 2013.
On the left of this chart is our 2011 total production of 1.578 million BOE per day.
I want to take you to some of the adjustments that will result in a normalized 2012 production number reflecting production from only the assets that we expect to be in our portfolio for the entirety of 2013.
First we back out the 51 000 BOEs per today to discontinued operations which again is the assets in Algeria and Nigeria.
Next we removed 70 000 BOE everyday which is the 2012 production generated by the dispositions that were closed during 2012.
And earlier this month we also announced the sale of our Cedar Creek Anticline assets which we expect to close late in the first quarter 2013.
So our analysis we back out our final 13 000 BOE per day which represents production from this asset during 2012.
So the resulting 2012 production of 1.497 million BOE per day represents the normalized year of the production performance of our go forward assets.
So our 2013 outlook for production from these assets that will remain in our portfolio is a range of 1.475 million BOE to 1.525 million BOE per day.
On the first quarter we expect to still have Algeria Nigeria and Cedar Creek in our portfolio.
Therefore we provided you with the all in first quarter production outlook of 1.582 million BOE to 1.6 million BOE per day which includes about 40 000per day for discontinued operations.
The second and third quarters of 2013 will be negatively impacted by both normal seasonality and planned maintenance.
But additionally with some new projects coming on later in the year we’ll have downtime associated with projects high-end.
And then we expect fourth quarter 2013 production to return to levels near the first quarter total production as new projects coming online make-up for the removal of production from discontinued operations.
And this is consistent with the prior guidance that we given around hitting our production low point in the second or third quarter of 2013.
Now I’ll turn to the segment slides and begin with the Lower 48 and Latin America which is on slide 7.
Production in this segment was 475 000 BOE per day this quarter an increase of a prior period as we continue to ramp up production in our Lower 48 shale plays.
Segment production increased 13 000 BOE per day or 3% sequentially and 31 000 or 7% compared to the same period a year ago.
More importantly liquids production grew 20% versus the fourth quarter 2011.
We reached a significant milestone during the quarter in the Eagle Ford.
Production exceeded a 100 000 BOE per day on a peak daily basis and averaged 89 000 BOE per day.
In addition to the Eagle Ford the year-over-year growth was achieved from unconventional drilling in the Bakken new wells in the Permian and improved well performance and optimization in the San Juan basin.
While natural gas prices have recovered to levels closer to those in the fourth quarter of 2011 the weakness in crude and NGL prices drove earnings lower year-over-year and fourth quarter adjusted earnings were $157 million.
Next we move to the Canada segment on slide 8.
In the Canada segment during the fourth quarter production was 281 000 BOE per day up 1% sequentially.
And production was up 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 and this reflects five consecutive quarters of growth from our oil sands assets.
Compared to the fourth quarter 2011 liquids in this segment increased 23% and natural gas production declined 7%.
And overall the portfolio mix shifted to 51% liquids from 44% liquids a year ago.
This segment generated positive earnings of $32 million during the fourth quarter.
Earnings benefited from both higher production and the stronger natural gas prices and these factors more than offset the impact of lower bitumen prices when compared to the third quarter.
Weaker bitumen prices were the key driver and lower year-over-year earnings.
We expect bitumen prices to remain weak for another quarter or so until additional heavy refining capacity comes on line.
So now let’s move to the Alaska segment on slide 9.
Production in Alaska was 222 000 BOE per day up 46 000 compared to the third quarter.
And this increase was primarily due to production coming back online following the completion of major turnarounds in the third quarter.
Production volumes were down about 6% from the fourth quarter of 2011 to 2012 primarily on just due to normal field decline.
Sequentially higher production resulted in a higher sales volume and this earnings benefit was partially offset by higher production related cost including our petroleum production taxes and DD&amp;A.
Segment adjusted earnings for the quarter were $595 million.
So for segments like Alaska that are subject to lift timing differences between sales and production in any given quarter we’ve now added a red line on these charts which represent quarterly sales compared to quarterly production.
So this should help illustrate of these timing differences.
All these timing differences net out over time that do create quarterly earnings volatility.
So in this quarter there was virtually no impact no timing impact for lift timing in Alaska but prior quarters have been impacted.
So for example if you look back in the fourth quarter of 2011 sales were nearly 40 000 BOE per day less than production which result in lower earnings relative to the production level and then we have the opposite effect in the third quarter of 2012 when sales exceeded production and that contributed positive to earnings.
I’ll turn now to slide 10 and talk about the Asia-Pacific and Middle East segment.
Asia-Pacific and Middle East continue to perform well during the quarter providing important diversification to our portfolio.
Production in the segment was 322 000 BOE per day up 16 000 per day or 5% sequentially and up 32 000 or 11% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase was primarily due to the resumption of Peng Lai production where we also had new production for Gumusut project in Malaysia and Panyu growth project in China.
As you can see from the production chart production exceeded sales this quarter.
This impacted segment earnings as earnings reflect sales volumes rather than production.
We should also see a positive impact for the first quarter 2013 earnings from the reversely timing affects all other things being equal.
Sequentially and year-over-year earnings reflect the impact of lower realized LNG prices which are linked to the Japanese Crude Cocktail or JCC prices.
And these prices impact were partially offset by the benefits of higher sales volumes.
Europe is the next segment and on slide 11.
Production from the Europe segment was 216 000 BOE per day an increase of 25 000.
This increase primarily reflects the resumption of production following planned downtime at Aquitaine C Block during the third quarter.
This quarter’s volumes were negatively impacted by unusually high unplanned downtime in the Southern North Sea and the East Irish Sea during the fourth quarter.
Compared to the fourth quarter of a year ago production declined due to normal field decline unplanned downtime and dispositions.
Sequentially adjusted earnings of $388 million benefited from improved sales volumes and continued strong pricing in the segment.
As a reminder like the Asia Pacific segment this segment provides important pricing diversification in our portfolio and future earnings should benefit significantly from major project start ups that are underway.
These projects will mitigate declines and bring attractive margins with the growth.
And I’ll cover our final geographic segment the other international segment on slide 12.
This segment is presented on a continuing operations basis so it excludes Kashagan Algeria and Nigeria which were previously reported in this segment.
So the assets that are now in this segment includes Libya Russia and our activities in Angola.
Fourth quarter 2012 production from continuing operations was 50 000 BOE per day up 26 000 for the same period last year and this increase was driven primarily by Libya coming back on line which more than offset the impact on NMG divestiture.
Final reporting segment I’ll cover is corporate and other which is on slide 13.
Adjusted corporate expense during this year’s fourth quarter was $177 million resulting in a full year adjusted corporate expense of $813 million.
The full year performance was a little better than our expectations.
As you recall from our update last quarter the third quarter benefited from licensing revenue as well as some favorable FX impacts.
During the fourth quarter we issued $2 billion of debt at attractive interest rates and we used the proceeds from dispositions to pay down commercial paper and other maturing debt.
So if you turn to slide 14 I’ll cover our operating segment margins and returns.
The previous charts have discussed segment results on a quarterly basis and on this slide we show annual results for some key financial metrics.
Adjusted earnings declined from $8 billion in 2011 to $6.7 billion in 2012 primarily result of lower prices particularly for North American natural gas and NGLs and Canadian bitumen.
And also we are impacted by lower production levels which were primarily result of our ongoing asset sales program.
On a per share basis adjusted earnings declined to a lesser extent from $5.75 to $5.37 as a result of a lower share count due to the $5 million of shares repurchased in 2012.
Our return on capital employed or ROCE numbers trended lower along with adjusted earnings and capital employed growing slightly from 2011 to 2012 as we are making significant investments to generate future production and margin growth.
Cash contribution for BOE and income for BOE were also impacted primarily by changes in commodity prices and we expect to see these cash contributions per BOE numbers to grow significantly over the next several years as we add production from assets with higher cash margins in the average of our current portfolio.
And next I’ll step through the company’s 2012 cash flow on slide 15.
So just a quick comment about this waterfall that’s shown is just Algeria Nigeria and Kashagan were part of continuing operations to provide some better comparability to analyst cash flows and our CapEx guidance.
On this basis we generated cash from operations to $15.2 billion excluding working capital changes in 2012 which were a $1.3 billion use of cash.
We also generated $2.1 billion in proceeds from asset disposition.
We funded a $15.7 billion capital program and about $800 million of that was capital associated with Nigeria Algeria and Kashagan.
The $5.5 billion shore show in the waterfall is discontinued operations related to the spin-up of Phillips 66 which includes the special distribution and all the other cash flows related to Phillips 66.
Moving to the right on the waterfall we repurchased 5.1 billion of our shares and paid $3.3 billion in dividend so over $8 billion in total distribution to shareholders in 2012.
Debt and other of $600 million include some deposits we received from our recently announced asset disposition.
So summing across we ended up 2012 with $4.4 billion of cash and restricted cash.
And also just to note on the slide on the upper right inside the box our year-end debt was $21.7 billion which represents a debt-to-capital of 31%.
So that concludes the review of the financial results and I’ll turn the call over to Matt now for an update on our operations.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
I’ll begin the operation section with the company’s 2012 reserve replacement performance.
We ended 2012 with just over 8.6 billion BOE of reserves up 3% overall compared to 2011.
Importantly we added 942 million net BOE of reserves organically resulting in an organic reserve replacement rate of 156%.
Our total reserve additions 497 million barrels came from Canada as a result of project sanctions in the oil sands.
Lower 48 was the second largest source of organic reserve additions with 293 million barrels and these are principally added from our Eagle Ford and Bakken unconventional programs and our Permian conventional programs.
Over 100 million barrels were also added across the Asia Pacific segment.
Our all-in reserve replacement rate was 142% and this takes into account the impact of dispositions completely during the year that reduced reserves by 83 million BOE.
We’ll provide more detail on the reserve performance including the costs in current and the forthcoming 10-K.
We’re sufficed it to say that we are really pleased with these results and we believe that our 40 plus billion barrel resource base hold significant future potential to be converted from resource to reserves over the coming years.
Now I’ll review our operating segments and provide some detail on our drilling programs growth projects and conventional and unconventional exploration activities.
I’ll cover some highlights from the fourth quarter and also update you on current activities and what we expect in the near future.
Overall our plans remain on track and the business continues to run well.
So please turn to slide 17 for a review of the Lower 48 and Latin America segment.
Performance in this segment is dominated by our ongoing success in the unconventional plays especially the Eagle Ford.
In 2012 the Eagle Ford achieved 70 000 BOE per day of annual average production and averaged 89 000 BOE per day in the fourth quarter.
As Ryan and Jeff already mentioned we also achieved the milestone of over 100 000 BOE per day of peak daily rates in the fourth quarter.
This is a tremendous accomplishment and credit to the entire Eagle Ford team.
During 2012 we adopted 17 rigs drilling the play.
Late in the year we began to reduce the rig count due to improved drilling efficiencies and the growing backlog of uncompleted wells and we exited the year with a 11 operated rigs.
We drilled 211 operated wells in 2012 and we now have a total of 313 wells online.
In addition we have 87 wells drilled waiting on completion and 40 wells completed and are waiting tie in.
Completing and connecting this backlog of wells is a key focus in 2013 along with achievement held by production status.
We expect to complete the drilling phase of Acreage Capture by mid 2013 and we will reach field held by production status by year end.
During the year we’ll gradually phase into a 100% pad drilling in the play with full pad drilling expected in 2014.
On the infrastructure side of the business we currently chuck virtually all of our light crude barrels from Eagle Ford but we are working diligently to access connections to pipelines for direct sales.
In addition we are actively adding infrastructure such as stabilization facilities that will remove light ends allowing us to get our light crude barrels to pipeline spec and maximizing our capture of NGLs.
Recently in the Eagle Ford we and the industry have been experiencing inconsistent and higher than normal back pressures in the gas gathering systems which have created variability in our daily production rates.
We expect these constraints to be significantly reduce over the coming months.
Moving to the Bakken we produced 24 000 BOE per day in the fourth quarter and we exited the year with 9 rigs operating in the play.
In 2012 we completed a total of a 187 operated and non-operated wells.
We have 34 operated wells waiting in completion and 14 wells ready to tie in and we continue to be excited about the future of this play.
In the Permian we hold a really strong legacy conventional position.
In 2012 we averaged 50 000 BOE per day of production from our conventional assets and we added 98 operated wells and 50 non-operated wells to production.
In the Permian we are also testing several unconventional plays in the Midland and Delaware basins.
Notably in 2012 we drilled nine wells in the Wolfcamp with encouraging results.
We also completed the 3D seismic survey across our Midland basin acreage and we expect to continue drilling and testing Permian unconventional plays in 2013.
We haven’t talked much about our activity in the Niobrara unconventional play.
So we have now built over 130 000 net acres and what we believe is a sweet spot compatible to the [war-torn] area about half of this acreage was added in the fourth quarter.
And as shown in the map it’s a contiguous position that provides scale benefits and development flexibility going forward.
We’ve drilled six Niobrara wells in 2012 and recently completed a new 3D seismic survey across our existing acreage.
This is a developing play and production results to be encouraging and that will be an important part of our exploration and development program going forward we’ll provide more detail at our Analyst Meeting in February.
Moving to the Gulf of Mexico we continue to grow our deepwater position there.
During the quarter we were awarded 20 800 acres in the central Gulf of Mexico lease sale and we were also a pattern high bidder for 348 000 acres in the western Gulf of Mexico lease sale.
These additions bring our current deepwater position to over 1.9 million acres making us the sixth largest acreage holder in the Gulf.
I’m not sure everyone recognizes just as substantial our position we have developed here.
Currently we’re drilling two partner operated wells in the deepwater Coronado and Shenandoah.
Hummer a low-cost fireman was declared the dry hole in fourth quarter.
We expect this quarter first operated well in 2013 the Thorn prospect which will be an exciting milestone for the company.
Finally we announced the sale of our Cedar Creek Anticline asset for over $1 billion.
This is an opportunity to divest the decline in conventional asset that didn’t compete for capital in our portfolio.
We expect this transaction to close in the first quarter.
So please go to slide 18 and we will talk about the Canada segment.
The Canadian oil sands assets continue to operate extremely well.
Weaker bitumen pricing this quarter has impacted margins but operationally these assets are delivering strong volume growth.
Our oil sands production exceeded 100 000 BOE per day in the fourth quarter of 2012 making us the second-largest SAGD producer in the oil sands.
Currently we’re executing seven major projects across our FCCO joint venture and Surmont.
We recently sanctioned Narrows Lake Phase A and Christina Lake Phase F.
We are progressing construction on the large-scale development of Surmont Phase II.
Moving to our Western Canada business unit we continue to focus our drilling activities on the liquids rich and light oil plays in our portfolio.
Currently we are running 16 rigs drilling on our held by production acreage that are focused on liquids proven place such as the Montney Glauconite and Cardium.
We’re also testing other unconventional exploration opportunities within and outside our core areas in Western Canada.
For example we’re currently drilling in the Duvernay play where we have a 112 000 net acres.
We drilled and completed one horizontal well recently and are currently drilling a second well with three additional wells planned for this year.
We also have drilling underway in our 120 000 net acre position in the (inaudible) play in the Horn River area.
Finally in the Canol play in the Central Mackenzie Valley we have 216 000 net acres.
We plan to drill two vertical wells early this year to test the significant potential of this oil shale play and we have two horizontal wells identified for drilling next year.
In summary our Canada segment continues to operate extremely well.
So let’s finish out the North American segments with Alaska on slide 19.
Full Alaska production resumed in the fourth quarter following successful third quarter turnarounds and this segment continues to generate steady performance for the company and is benefiting from development innovations using coiled tubing drilling or CTD and 4D seismic that are helping to offset natural field declines.
For example in the fourth quarter we drilled – what we believe is the first ever Octo-lateral CTD well.
That’s a well with 8 different horizontal sections that was guided using a high-quality 4D seismic survey.
In the fourth quarter we sanctioned the Alpine West CD5 Project and expect production to startup in 2016.
As we mentioned before and you’ve seen in the press we are working with other producers in Alaska to evaluate LNG exports from the North Slope.
The producer group has been evaluating development concepts and assessing the cost of major project components for various alternatives and completion of this phase of work is targeted for the first quarter.
We continue to invest around $1 billion a year of net capital for maintenance activities and infield exploitation programs across the North Slope and we could make other significant investments in Alaska but they will require more competitive state fiscal terms.
Let’s move to slide 20 the Asia Pacific and Middle East segment.
Our Asia Pacific and Middle East operations are running well and we are progressing several major projects in this segment.
This is an area of significant growth for us over the next five years with most of the growth coming from Malaysia and APLNG.
In Malaysia we achieved first oil from Gumusut in November utilizing an existing floating and production storage in our floating facility at the Katy field.
This facility will be used until our dedicated floating production system is completed later this year.
We expect to reach peak production from Gumusut in 2014.
In early October we also sanctioned the Malikai project where we expect first production in 2017 and development activities also underway in Siakap North-Petai and KBB projects.
Also in Malaysia we recently executed the production sharing contract for exploration Block SB311 offshore Sabah.
This block covers about 250 000 acres and we are the operator with a 40% working interest.
The PSC has a three-year exploration period with the work program of seismic and two exploration wells.
In China Peng Lai averaged 43 000 BOE per day of net production during this quarter and at Panyu we brought on nine growth wells in the fourth quarter.
The growth development remains ahead of schedule and we expect to add about 8 000 BOE per day between now and 2014 as we drill additional wells from Britannia platforms and this new production is expected to more than offset decline to Panyu.
Also in China we recently announced the joint study agreement with Sinopec to access shale gas opportunities in Qi Jiang Block in the Sichuan province.
The block covers an area of approximately 1 million acres and the study will be carried over two years including seismic and drilling obligations.
In Qatar we secured new long-term LNG sales commitments in the fourth quarter and we now have about 80% of QG3 LNG production linked to crude prices under long-term agreements.
In Australia our APLNG project remains on schedule and we intend to provide a more fulsome update on the development of the APLNG at the February Analyst Meeting.
On the exploration front drilling continues in Australia.
In November we spudded the Zephyros-1 well the second of the five-well appraisal program at Poseidon and in the Canning Basin we are drilling a second exploration well to test as a 11 million acre position.
So this is a very active segment for us just now and we are excited about the development and exploration opportunities here over the next several years.
Please turn to slide 21 and I’ll provide an update on our Europe segment.
In Europe we are focused on progressing our major projects in the UK and Norway.
Operationally the UK had a challenging quarter due to unplanned downtime in the East Irish Sea Southern North Sea Britannia and Clair.
This downtime accounted for an average of 23 000 BOE per day that was off-line in the fourth quarter.
The East Irish Sea is still shut in but we think once your facility is upgraded it should be completed in the second quarter.
On a positive note our Katy field development in the Southern North Sea was completed in December and gas production came online in January.
We expect peak rate production of about 5 000 BOE a day from this field.
In addition in the UK the Jasmine and Clair Ridge developments are in execution with first production at Jasmine expected in the second half of this year.
First production at Clair Ridge is targeted for the second half of 2016.
Moving to Norway the Ekofisk South and Eldfisk II projects are progressing as planned.
The Ekofisk South the topside structural sections are being completed and first production is expected at the end of this year.
Eldfisk II is also on track to production startup at the end of 2014 or early 2015.
These projects are running smoothly and our base operations in Norway continue to perform well.
Finally in Poland we are continuing our exploration drilling program in 2013 as operated on a three Baltic were western concessions.
Just a note we have significant downtime in 2013 within this segment as we tie in new projects to the Ekofisk and J-Block production platforms.
However we expect to exit the year with very strong growth from these developments.
The final segment I will cover is other international on slide 22.
There was a lot of activity in this segment during the fourth quarter.
We announced sales agreements for Kashagan Nigeria and Algeria.
We expect these transactions to close in the middle of this year.
On this slide we’ve shown 2012 average production rates and year end 2012 results for these assets.
During the fourth quarter Nigeria was severely impacted by flooding in the Niger Delta and you can see in this lower picture.
The flooding began in late October and fourth quarter production was impacted by about 13 000 BOE per day and first quarter production will also be impacted by this flood related downtime.
In Angola we secured a rig for our plants to drill four exploration wells starting in 2014.
The seismic results in our Angola blocks are really encouraging and we look forward to getting underway on drilling in this significant new exploration opportunity.
I will conclude my prepared remarks by reiterating the things you heard consistently this morning.
We are focused on safely executing our base business while successfully funding our growth program.
We are seeing the benefits of our conventional and unconventional exploration programs and we continue to progress on major projects across the globe.
Now I will turn the call over to Ryan for some closing comments.
Thank you Matt.
So please turn to slide 23 for some summary comments.
I’ll conclude today’s remarks with a quick review of our 2013 priorities.
These are not going to be a big surprise as they are continuation of the priorities we set for ourselves during last year.
Our highest priority is to focus on safety and operations excellence.
And this is an imperative and it’s a priority we take to heart at ConocoPhillips and throughout the company.
We made significant progress on our strategic divestiture program in 2012 but we still have work to do.
Importantly we have to complete and close these divestitures which are expected to generate about $9.6 billion of proceeds.
And these proceeds will largely be directed toward executing our drilling programs and our major growth projects.
As we have told you throughout the year we have identified projects in hand and underway that will materially change the growth trajectory of our company over the next few years and it’s important that we execute on these activity.
It’s also important that we advance our exploration activities globally in both our conventional and unconventional portfolios.
2013 and 2014 are important years for testing the opportunities that we’ve captured.
And certainly last but not least we’ll maintain our commitment to shareholders by continuing to offer a unique value proposition that delivers growth margins and a compelling dividend.
Finally a reminder we’ll have our first Analyst Meeting as an independent E&amp;P company in New York on February 28.
That meeting will provide more detail on our company’s plans for the future and our long-term priorities for value creation.
So thank you for listening.
We’ll turn the call now back to our operator to begin the Q&amp;A process.
Thank you Christine and thank you participants.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I was wondering if you could clarify the 2013 production guidance it looks like it is going to be relatively flat and certainly the market seems a little bit disappointed today in that number.
But going back to your previous slides from last year you did show a dip in expected production in 2013 internationally and growth in the Lower 48 and North American production.
So can you just clarify what’s going with production and how you see it this being a bottom in the year and I have a follow-up after that.
Thanks for the question Faisel.
I think the production guidance is really pretty similar to what we have given in the past.
We knew that 2013 would be the low point in our production for the year.
So I’m not sure what additional guidance we can have other than what we’ve given on the call at this point.
What we’re trying to do is just make it clear now that the asset disposition program has become a little bit more into focus than it has been in the past.
Just what the production levels are going to be as part of our portfolio long term.
So we’re trying to layout with this production guidance this morning.
I think part of the – we’ve been we anticipate being pretty successful in our asset disposition program.
So we’re probably at the high end of what we have – what some people have had – probably have in their models for the amount of production that’s going out on dispositions as well.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Faisel let me jump in here quickly this is Ellen.
I appreciate again the question.
If you look at what we had in April for 2012 and what we had in April for 2013 and you kind of averaged it over the couple of years it ends up being that we were – that the timing of divestitures actually ends up slipping from 2012 a little bit to 2013.
And so if you look at it on a couple of year basis it ends up being really right on guidance.
I think a way to think about this is exit rate to exit rate.
Think about 4Q this year the number just provided is sort of 1510 they had the noise out of this quarter compared to the fourth quarter to get to this guidance we provided.
It will be very significant growth in quarter-over-quarter 2013 to 2012.
We’ll provide all of these updates at the Analyst Meeting but I think of it as the divestitures stayed in the portfolio in 2012 a little bit longer and exit rate to exit rate is going to be higher because of the timing startups.
Yeah.
So I think as an important point is that we are going to start seeing production growth in 2013 particularly late in the year or we have startups happening in the North Sea and the continued ramp up in oil sands continue to ramp up in the oil shale and right and plus the startup of projects in Malaysia.
Okay.
Great.
And just one other question on the capital program it looks like (inaudible) in – on slide 15 that are roughly $800 million in capital was associated with the asset divestitures in 2012.
Is that roughly the same number in 2013? It’s probably a little lower than that in 2013.
But it really much depends on when assets actually end up leaving the portfolio.
So it will be all through the year.
We kind of need to be giving updates on how we see the capital program playing out this year.
Okay.
The last question from me bitumen prices were extremely low in the fourth quarter.
Is there any plans for you guys to try to evacuate that production by other means and pipelines to get a higher realization?  I think there applies a little bit of long term there will be moves to faint alternative markets for bitumen from the Canadian oil sands.
I think that’s a strategic comparative of the Canadian government not just the bay oil companies’ work in the oil sands so we will see that happening over time.
Of course this is a short-term issue that we’re facing just now very much associated with refining constrains like BP is fighting refinery.
So don’t expect these daily rate differentials to be sustained for more than in the next few months.
In the long term other markets will be developed.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Faisel.
Thanks Faisel.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Doug.
I have a couple of quick ones please.
Jeff could you – you gave us the earnings numbers associated with the discontinued ops but I guess to Faisel’s point looks like there was over $800 million of spending associated with those assets.
Can you help us with the operating cash flow impact? And if you could clarify whether or not the 15.7 15.6 15.7 target for this year for spending assumes the asset sales are out for the whole year or if not number – not just higher a (inaudible) end of the year.
And I have a quick follow-up please.
So the operating cash flow numbers again – so the discontinued operations are Algeria and Nigeria.
And I don’t think we have – we’re not going to be disclosing particular operating cash flow numbers for each of those segments.
The capital is mostly a good outcome of Kazakhstan during 2012 – the number that was in 2012 I think that was probably the half of two-thirds of the number that was in – on the $800 million.
As far as what’s in for 2013 we are pursing a lot of different capital projects with fairly heavy spend.
And there is going to be several things that could impact what our capital program ultimately been ends up being at the – in 2013 as we execute on those projects.
And timing of dispositions is really just one of those items.
So we’ve assumed certain timings but as I said on the answer to the last question we’re just going to need to be kind of continually updating that as we see the year develop.
Thanks Jeff.
I guess my follow-up is a – I guess relates to the exploration program just to put some context around this German had spent the last decades trying to secure resources and build up very large drilling inventory I guess.
And obviously there is a lot of spending to achieve that but now you are in a position where you are still underfunded relative to your CapEx and your dividends that you are spending $2 billion to $3 billion in exploration.
Can you help us with the logic of why that’s the right thing at this point given the $1.5 billion write-off in 2012 why that’s the right strategy at this point given that you should have theoretically had a lot of resource and I’ll leave it there? Thanks.
Yeah Doug this is Ryan.
I think as we look out and think about the future opportunity I think with this unconventional revolution that we are seeing in North America right now and some of the technology advances in the deepwater arenas that are becoming pretty perspective.
It’s kind of in my view turn from a bid of resource scarcity that was leading to a lot of merger synergies over the last 10 or 12 years and resource capture into a view now.
But the resources aren’t so scares and there is a bit more abandon certainly on the unconventional side in North America what the technology is doing to improve the oil sands performance in Canada and then what innovation and technologies done on the deepwater side.
And we just think that growing organically there is the opportunity set to go do that and the option value associated with growing organically is we thought better in our portfolio then trying to do that through an M&amp;A channel or some resource access that way.
So we think it’s important for the long-term growth.
What the last 10 years did for this company is created a 40 billion plus barrel resource base and we’re investing in that resource base right now.
As we look forward into the future over the next 10 years we see the exploration and the organic growth being more a driver to our other growth and development of the company.
I appreciate the answer Ryan.
Thanks.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
Good morning Doug.
My question is one the mix shift that appears to be underway the company meaning but the size – there are profitability in the United States it appears that there is going to be some positive mix effects overseas too.
And on this point my questions is whether the earning from the discontinued operations which I think we’re listed is close to zero for 2011 and 2012 or the actual clean operating numbers.
And also do we have any updated information on the tax implications of the $10 billion of proceeds from those sales? I mean what I’m trying to get to is what is the approximate earnings loss and return for the $10 billion of pre-tax proceeds that you likely to receive? Well the fourth quarter was a challenging again (inaudible) is Algeria Nigeria and Kashagan assets which of course not in operation yet income or cash flow from these assets.
So the adjusted earnings as we mentioned from these assets were $0.02 a share or $27 million during the fourth quarter.
That was probably a particularly low number though because of the impact that Matt talked about in the flooding in Nigeria impacted Nigerian operations.
But they weren’t significantly higher than that in the previous quarters in the year also.
We generate cash flow a little bit higher than income in those but we are also reinvesting capital as well.
A long way of saying Doug that we don’t really anticipate that moving those assets out of our portfolio would change our cash flow from operations very significantly.
And Jeff do you have any insight for us on the tax implications of these divestitures.
You highlighted $10 billion of sales proceeds and doing out the cash proceeds might be? Yeah the cash proceeds are going to be close to the numbers that we’ve highlighted.
These transactions [currently] may be very tax efficient.
Great.
You’re a great value.
And also I have a question for Ryan Ryan you’ve spent a lot of time in Alaska and it seems like there is moment on the new fiscal regimen up there.
So my question is whether or not you feel that just most recent movement is real and if so whether or not the investment opportunity could be meaningful for the company.
Yeah I do.
I think Fed conversations with Governor Parnell over the course of last year and leading up to the session that started in January here in Alaska and he understands the lack of competitiveness and the fact that the current taxing system really takes away a lot of competitiveness instead of other Alaskan opportunities out there.
So I think he is serious about trying to push something through the legislature.
I think he has proposed some fiscal on the oil side he has put a proposal out there.
I don’t think – it’s going to be a tough hall through the legislature but I also think that the – people are noticing and we’ve said as a company that we would be prepared to ramp up our investment if it got more competitive with the changing fiscal system in Alaska.
Part of that side I think to the work that we are doing on ANS Gas as well and progressing the work on a potential LNG project.
So part of that’s tied into some of these as well but I’m probably slightly encouraged but it’s a long way till May when the session ends.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I’m sorry to be confused about this but if I look at the slide 6 and you may well have explained this and I apologize but the normalized 2012 is 1 497? Right.
And then the outlook is 1 475 to 1 525.
Is that the comparable number that we should think about when we are trying to get to your 3% volume target that we were looking from it? I think the point is that the idea was to – in order to balance cash against dividend and then CapEx you would be growing volumes and margins at around I think it was 3% per year each.
Shouldn’t I just be looking at that normalized number and then looking at the outlook and wondering where is the 3% growth? I think we’ve been – we try to be clear in all the presentations that we’ve given.
The 3% to 5% is a multi-year target and the 2013 would probably be the low point in our production going forward.
We still feel like the 3% to 5% production growth long-term is the right measure for us.
Okay.
So I guess the point that you previously made is that I shouldn’t be thinking about 2013 growth why shouldn’t I have been thinking about 2013 growth yeah.
Three to five we always kind of characterize as of a low point.
So you will begin to see evidence of production growth as we are rolling towards the end of 2013.
Yeah.
And that’s the high margin Malaysian barrels that will begin to road towards the cash in cash out balance? It’s there.
It’s also start up of the Jasmine project in the UK and then startup of projects in Norway as well combined with the continued ramp up in the Lower 48 and the oil sands.
Just to change tax lightly and you may want to wait for the Analyst Meeting to talk more about this but there is an open question right now about business models amongst big oils and whether or not your global deepwater type operations and activity really fit well with U.S.
unconventional.
Could you give your perspective on the business mix particularly business mix at this scale which is so differentiated in terms of its sheer size against any of the EMP? Thanks.
Yeah it’s a good question.
I think as we look at our portfolio we’ve been doing this for quite sometime.
As a company we’ve got large project capacity and capability.
So we have got the capacity to make and execute these large projects globally around the world.
And we’ve also got a business model that really at – its basis is multifunctional integrated teams and we’ve had a separate Lower 48 organization for the last number of years that has demonstrated its ability to run and execute an exploitation model or manufacturing model.
So when I look at the organization Paul I look at a group or we can compare ourselves to the smaller independents weather it’s Eagle Ford or Permian or Bakken we look across the fence line and we’re competing and we’re in a low quartile position relative to how those folks are executing their plans.
And then we have the capacity to build very large projects around the world whether it’s LNG oil sands deepwater projects Al Sabo or in the Gulf of Mexico here at home.
So I think it had the diversity the diversification the global part of the portfolio just adds a lot of capacity and something that we are interested in.
So we like the mix of high deliverability and scalable recourse and that’s what we’re building in the company.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning everyone.
Just coming back to the longer-term growth I mean I guess this 1.8 billion barrels a day in the longer-term is still intact as the shale and the international projects come on stream in 2016? That’s correct.
That’s correct.
Yeah.
And then how many rigs you got running in the Permian for this year? In the Permian I’m not sure how many we have run in the Permian.
But right now we are focused on the Permian on two things conventional developments with a significant amount of activity going on in conventional and we have one or two rigs drilling up the testing the unconventional plays in the Midland and Delaware basin.
The exact rig count is now I don’t have it on top of my head in the Permian.
Okay.
Yeah Ed we’ve got on the conventional we’ve got – we exited the year with four rigs running and then we’ve got – we’ve announced we’ve got rigs running testing some of the unconventionals as well but that would be – we ran that’s about our run rate for the year four to five.
And when I look at the 1.8 I mean how much roughly in volume terms are you including say from the Permian from this Niobrara sweet spot or from the Canada non-conventional plays that you are testing this year? We’ll go through all that Ed at the Analyst Meeting.
We’ve shown you throughout the year our multi-year production levels from all our segments and we’ll provide that as well as bit of a deeper dive into our sub play production outlooks as well.
So if you can hold on for that would appreciate it.
Yeah I’m just trying to gage when I look at that 1.8 how much additional shale upside there is beyond the 1.8 like I still have to wait for that until the Analyst Day.
There is a lot of upside depending on the pace of the program is the way to think about it.
What we have in here right now what we’ve had since April is actually we’ve laid it out pretty carefully it assumes a capital it assumes a steady ramp in these and so what remains is how quickly do we go at these programs.
We’ll feed you more in February Ed.
Right.
And then on the disposal side I mean obviously great execution so far and I guess with the cash proceeds coming in there’s no pressure to be aggressive on some of the Canadian oil sands or further equity in APLNG.
But I just wondered if there was any update on the timing of those potential sales whether they were still in your thought process.
Thanks Ed.
We now still continue to look for options to diluted APLNG and reduce some of our Canadian oil sands exposure.
We have a very large position up there that we know we won’t move forward developing some of that a 100%.
So now we’re still looking at those options but haven’t obviously announced anything yet.
Okay thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kate Minyard of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Just a couple of questions; the first one just for clarification in terms of just modeling the year going forward I know you talked about the downtime in 2Q and 3Q and also you have indicated that you’ll give some more clarity around the 2013 production guidance at the late February Analyst Meeting.
But can you just talk a little bit about in terms of modeling the quarters out correctly maybe to the extent of the downtime in some of the regions in 2Q and 3Q? I mean are there any countries where we will be looking at assets being off-line for an entire of either of these quarters.
Can you give us a sense as to kind of the magnitude of the difference in some other regions? Yeah the area where we had a segment where we have the biggest differential downtime compared to normal activities is in Europe.
And this associated with tying in the new growth projects at Ekofisk Eldfisk and Jasmine.
So for example in Ekofisk we’re going to see about 70% more downtime than we usually see so maybe 28 days of downtime Ekofisk.
In Eldfisk we’ll see close to two months of downtime for the Brownfield activities and use to go on to tie-in Eldfisk II.
And then a G Block where we are tying in the Jasmine project and we’re going to have over a months of downtime there whereas typical downtime would be about 14 days at G Block.
So the differential downtime is mostly in Europe and associated with these tie-ins.
Is that helpful Kate? Yeah.
No that’s very helpful.
Thanks very much.
And then just looking at – just kind of some of the margin growth going forward you’ve talked about margin improvement across the portfolio coming from factors such as mix shift and controllable costs.
We also saw a cash margin contribution on per BOE basis that declined about I guess almost 10% or so from 2011 to 2012.
I know lot of that’s related to lower natural gas pricing lower NGLs and lower bitumen in North America.
But can you talk about the factors that would be driving the further cash margin improvements how much of those factors actually manifested what you were able to control as we move from 2011 to 2012 that may have just been dropped by some of the commodity price shift and what we will be looking for in 2013 as we look for an uptick in cash margins.
Cash margin growth very much is going to follow production growth.
Because you think about what we’re doing in our portfolio is we’re adding new production in areas where the margins are higher than our current production.
So you haven’t really you haven’t seen margin growth yet because you haven’t really seen production growth yet.
So as we continue to add production in the Lower 48 as we add as we startup LNG projects as we startup the Malaysia projects as we startup these projects we were just talking about in the North Sea and you see increased production that’s when you really are going to have noticeable margin growth as well.
This year I think as you’ve just correctly summarized we did see the degradation in cash margins over 2011 to 2012 but that really is driven primarily by the significant drops we saw in natural gas prices and NGL prices and bitumen prices.
So when we always talk about margin growth we talk about margin growth if you – whatever prices (inaudible) the same prices are constant across time that we would see per barrel margins growing in this 3% to 5% and that’s again is over a multiyear time period as we bring on these growth projects.
Okay all right.
And then just one final question I know you talked about the F&amp;D estimate potentially coming later but can you give us a sense as to how it might compare with 2012 – excuse me with 2011 directionally or how it also might compare with the cash contribution per BOE that we saw in 2012.
And I’ll leave with there.
Thanks.
So that’s another item that I think we would just say that we will give you some updates in February.
You also see some of this as we file our 10-K in late February as well.
We’re kind of working through those numbers now.
So may be we’d rather just give that guidance in February.
Sure.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Kate.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Reed of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Morning Roger.
Roger if you are on mute can you un-mute your phone? Okay we will move on.
The next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Three quick ones.
In 2011 you ended with about 29% of your proven reserves – Conoco’s proving reserves being PUDs.
You booked a lot of unconventionals this year.
Can you say approximately how high your PUD count will rise because historically Conoco has been very under booked these years? So with our – the booking that we announced today PUD percentage is about 35%.
Okay.
So you’re still under that line? Yeah.
And this is actually dominated by the oil sands.
Sure.
That represents about 60% of our PUDs but we think more detail will become – before coming on that.
No that’s fine you’re still under.
Regarding benchmarking that Ryan mentioned in the unconventional plays could you be a little bit more specific on how you are doing inside the Eagle Ford and Bakken vis-à-vis a lot of the smaller entities.
Again that’s something that we are going to get more in-depth analysis on the end of next month in the Analyst Meeting.
It may be a bit too much detail for the call but we will get more detail at that time.
Okay well it’s worth of shot.
Last one from me is Angola you said you ran seismic you’ve processed some of the seismic how fixed its out there for the pre-salt plays I’m just curious.
On the top of my head I don’t know the thickness.
They clearly is – it’s got similarities to the Brazilian side.
I mean they were together they were paying all those this was the positive.
So the number on top of my head I don’t know.
The seismic though is looking very encouraging.
I think you are aware of this just issues and graphic on that slide we’re just outboard of the Cameia discovery.
So we know we have a working petroleum system the seismic looks encouraging from the potential of identifying these carbonate buildups that perform the play on the Brazilian side of the margin.
So we are encouraged and we are looking forward to getting drilling there.
Okay great.
That’s it from me.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
We’ll take one more question operator.
We’re running a little long here but let’s take one more.
Our last question is from all Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions several quick one.
Ryan in addition to you guys still looking at oil sand and APLNG maybe diluting the interest on is there any other major offset that you guys still considering or there is pretty much that the other sales program would be largely done at this point? Well Paul we’re always looking at the portfolio and making sure that the assets that we have in the future investments that are in those assets compete in the portfolio.
So its things like see Cedar Creek Anticline there was an opportunity that presented itself or we got for value.
We looked at the future investments in that particular asset.
They made more sense to the purchaser than they did to us didn’t compete in our portfolio.
So even though it wasn’t – one that was identified and we have talked about it was an opportunity where we got – where we feel like we got full value and got to redeploy the – we will redeploy those proceeds into capital opportunities that are higher returns for us going forward.
So we’ve talked about wanting to reduce our oil sands footprint a little bit and some further dilution at APLNG we’re still working on those but any other specific asset size would be premature to say anything about that.
Along that line one of your smaller competitor in activeness that has some firework recently and I think one of the suggestion from the activeness is that maybe that is better off that you put up the company between the share volume which we will be having a much higher multiple in comparing to the rest of the company.
And one may argue that that could potentially also apply to ConocoPhillips that the oil sand and the shale oil will be higher multiple.
I suppose that based on the way you answered previous question this is not an option that you guys believe is attractive to you; just want to make sure that we understand.
Paul we’ve – I appreciate it.
We all read the papers these days and see what’s going on.
I think as we came out as an independent company we laid out our plans.
We told the shareholders what we’re trying to do to grow this company and improve the returns and still they have compelling dividend back to the shareholders.
That’s what we’re focused on as executing our plan.
We think we’re on the front end of that plan.
We delivered in 2012.
I think the shareholders should be pretty happy with what we did in 2012.
We realized we’ll reach a lower point in our production in 2013.
We set that all along because we said we’re going to core up the portfolio and sell some assets.
We look at our future.
We look at the investments that we’re making in the growth projects that we talked about today.
Those are compelling investments that are high return.
They’ll move our margins they’ll move our growth.
And then we’re doing some exciting things on the exploration side.
So we think there is exciting future.
We think diversification globally and amongst all these different resource types and asset types is an important for our company our size.
Okay.
Final one from me I guess for Matt Matt if I look at this year 2012 reserve replacement excluding oil sand for the rest of the portfolio I guess we are facing about 82%.
Any idea that over the next couple of years should we assume some of 400 million to 500 million fell a year of the reserve addition from oil sand? Is it a reasonable one way or that 2012 is somewhat unique and we’re going to see a slowdown on that addition way? So the bookings in the oil sands essentially flow of the project sanctions.
And so as we – and that seems to be lumpy dependent on how we go – as we go through the project development thesis.
So we wouldn’t expect the – to be consistent at all over the next several years there will be lumpy as we go through the project sanction fees.
We do have a significant remaining resource plays in oil sands that hasn’t been converted to reserve shale.
But we don’t expect a consistent booking from year-to-year because has to follow the project sanction.
Sure and based on the project backlog that do you think the next couple of years that the reserved booking maybe substantially less or above the same or just going to be higher? I mean we expect to replace more than a 100% of reserves and as we go forward as we develop the oil sands the unconventionals and the other projects we have in our portfolio that is not going to be consistent from year-to-year.
But over the long run we’re going to place in more than 100% of reserves for the next five years.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Let’s go ahead and wrap it up here.
I appreciate everybody sticking around a little bit.
As a reminder we will be in New York on February 28 and we look forward to seeing you there.
Ryan and I are available for any further follow-up questions that you might have and appreciative your time.
Operator we are ready to winded up here.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2013 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
And thank you to all of our listeners for joining this earnings call today.
As usual we'll review the results for the past quarter and we'll provide quite a bit of outlook for the coming quarters this year.
It's a big year as I think you all know and appreciate.
With me for today's call are Jeff Sheets our Executive Vice President of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer; and Matt Fox our Executive Vice President of Exploration and Production.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff let me make just a few administrative points here.
As a reminder in late February we hosted our first ever analyst meeting as an independent company.
And at that meeting we presented a lot of detail about our future plans and our milestones.
We had a great response to the event which we appreciate.
And today you'll here that our performance and our plans are tracking the expectations we laid out there overall.
The material for that meeting including a transcript of that call is still available from our website and that's also where you'll find the materials for today's presentation.
One other kind of quick administrative matter: Except as noted today's comments as we go through the presentation will address the company's performance on a continuing operations basis and that is net of the results for the settled properties that we've previously reported as discontinued operations.
So just listen for that.
We know the models have a mix of conventions and so we want to be clear about the convention we plan to follow today.
If you'll turn to Page 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor slide.
We will make some forward-looking statements today and of course our actual results could differ.
The risks in our future performance have been outlined and described on the Safe Harbor statement and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our recently filed Form 10-K.
And with that it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Jeff.
Jeff? All right.
Thank you Ellen.
And good afternoon everyone and thanks for taking the time to join us on our call today.
I'll begin my comments on Slide 3 and cover some of the key first quarter highlights.
Strategically we continue to make good progress on our announced asset sales.
In the first quarter we closed the Cedar Creek Anticline transaction and some small asset sales which generated total proceeds of about $1.1 billion.
We're also making progress in our sales of our Algeria Nigeria and Kashagan assets and anticipate closing those in 2013.
At the same time as we work to monetize these non-core nonstrategic assets in our portfolio we continue to add assets which will allow us to sustain our long-term growth.
We added acreage in our deepwater Gulf of Mexico position and continue to make selective entries in the new exploration plays globally.
But Matt is going to provide more information about our investment programs during his comments later in the call.
Operationally the business ran well and we achieved the high end of our estimated production range for the quarter.
We produced 1.596 million BOE per day on a total company basis and 1.55 million per day on a continuing operations basis.
We announced 2 significant deepwater Gulf of Mexico discoveries in the first quarter at Shenandoah and Coronado and these are important milestones in our emerging deepwater Gulf of Mexico program.
Moving to financial results.
Adjusted earnings were $1.8 billion it's $1.42 a share.
Special items this quarter were $387 million which were primarily related to gains on asset sales.
Excluding a $1 billion net working capital gain benefit we generated $3.6 billion in cash from operations and ended the quarter with $5.4 billion of cash on hand.
Our debt level was unchanged from year end.
So overall we had a strong quarter strategically operationally and financially.
And if you turn to the next slide I'll discuss our earnings for the quarter.
So it was a straightforward quarter with adjusted earnings relatively flat with comparative periods.
This quarter's adjusted earnings were down about 2% compared to last year's first quarter primarily driven by lower benchmark prices and higher DD&amp;A expense which were partially offset by our shift to higher-value liquids in our portfolio and lower corporate expenses.
Adjusted earnings per share was up 3% which reflects the share repurchases in the first half of 2012.
Sequentially adjusted earnings were essentially flat.
Slightly lower total company volumes were offset by somewhat higher product prices with the notable exception of bitumen pricing which remained weak in the first quarter.
As I mentioned production volumes hit the high end of our guidance range and operating costs were as expected so there are no surprises there.
Next I'll cover our production performance for the quarter so if you'll turn to the next slide.
As I mentioned a moment ago our all-in production this year's first quarter was 1.596 million BOE per day and these results included about 40 000 BOE per day from discontinued operations.
So this Slide 5 shows how production compares to the first quarter of 2012.
First quarter 2012 production from continuing operations was 1.58 million BOE per day.
And if you adjust that for the 45 000 of production from assets that were sold during 2012 normalized production from continued operations was 1.536 million BOE in the first quarter of last year.
So if you compare that to the first quarter 2013 our downtime from continuing operations was 30 000 BOE per day higher in the first quarter 2013 than in the first quarter of 2012.
This downtime is primarily due to weather-related issues in the San Juan Basin and downtime at the East Irish Sea Rivers asset plant.
Production growth of 219 000 BOE per day more than offset decline of 170 000 BOE per day.
The majority of this growth came from the Lower 48 shale plays and our oil sands assets and we had some production increases year-over-year from Libya and China.
So normalized for 2012 dispositions our production from continuing operations increased from 1.536 million to 1.555 million BOE per day year-over-year and that represents about a 1% growth in total.
And this growth would have been higher were it not for the increased downtime we had in the first quarter.
So while we experienced slight year-on-year production growth from our continuing operations the composition of that production shifted leading to improved cash margins and the next slide discusses those cash margins.
As you can see cash margins are growing despite a 3% drop in realized prices compared to last year's first quarter.
Our cash margins grew by 6%.
One of the biggest drivers in this margin improvement is the shift to higher-value liquids in our portfolio.
So liquids production from crude from NGL and from bitumen increased to 57% of production compared to 55% a year ago.
So this metric is likely to evolve though on a quarter-by-quarter basis but the long-term trend should be one of increasing cash margins as we shift our production towards higher-value products.
And we will continue to focus on this metric since it's one of the key aspects of our value proposition.
So next I'll turn to the segment slide beginning with the Lower 48 on Slide 7.
Production in this segment was 475 000 BOE per day.
That's up 5% compared to last year's first quarter as we continue to successfully ramp up production in the Lower 48 shale plays.
Total liquids production in this segment increased 17% over the same period a year ago while natural gas production decreased by 4%.
Sequentially production was flat from the -- for the segment reflecting the unplanned downtime in the San Juan Basin related to winter weather conditions.
So with the 17% growth in liquids production liquids now represent approximately 50% of the production mix in this segment up from 45% a year ago.
And we expect our liquids production percentage to continue to grow.
During the quarter Eagle Ford production averaged 101 000 BOE per day Permian production averaged 52 000 Bakken production averaged 29 000 BOE per day.
So total production from these 3 areas was 182 000 BOE per day and for -- and that's up 42% compared to the same period last year.
In terms of earnings realized prices tell most of the story on earnings variability.
Sequentially in this year's first quarter volumes were flat but earnings benefit from stronger crude prices.
So next we'll move to the Canada segment on Slide 8.
Canadian production was 283 000 BOE per day in the first quarter.
That's up 6% year-over-year driven by the ramp-up in -- of production in our oil sands assets.
Liquids production increased 22% year-over-year while gas price -- gas production declined 7%.
And this shift should show up in improved margins over time with recovering bitumen prices.
Canada reported negative adjusted earnings this quarter reflecting weak bitumen prices that carried over from late last year.
As a reminder our realizations embed a 1-month lag in WCS spot prices so our first quarter results essentially reflect pricing in December January and February.
Since we already know that March and April prices for bitumen are higher we expect second quarter realizations to improve compared to the first quarter.
So let's move on to the Alaska segment on Slide 9.
Production in Alaska was 218 000 BOE per day this quarter.
That's down sequentially but in line with our expectations.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 production was down about 18 000 BOE per day reflecting normal field decline.
In the first quarter lift timing had an adverse impact to earnings of about $50 million.
And adjusted earnings were $543 million for the segment.
As most of you know the Alaska legislature passed SB 21 representing some reforms to the existing fiscal regime.
We are currently analyzing the possible impact to our business including where we could or would increase investment in Alaska and we expect to provide more details of -- on our future plans over time.
So I'll turn to Slide 10 and talk about our Asia Pacific and Middle East segment.
Production in this segment was 318 000 BOE per day during the first quarter and that's up 5% compared to a year ago and about flat sequentially.
One milestone to note is we achieved our first sale of our cargo oil from the Gumusut field in Malaysia in January.
Adjusted earnings this quarter were favorably impacted by about $20 million related to lift timings and they benefited from continuing -- continued strong pricing sequentially.
Europe is the next segment and it's found on Slide 11.
Production for Europe was 207 000 BOE per day during the quarter a sequential decrease of 9 000 BOE per day.
Natural field declines asset dispositions and continued downtime primarily at the East Irish Sea facility continued to lower production volumes compared to the first quarter of last year.
Now the adjusted earnings of $348 million for this segment did not include any significant timing differences this quarter.
So we don't have an Other International segment or a corporate slide in our presentation this quarter as there wasn't much news.
As a reminder most of what was previously in the international segment is now reported in our discontinued operations.
Our corporate segment's adjusted earnings were a negative $173 million.
That's in line with our fourth quarter performance but ahead of our quarterly guidance.
And we're going to provide an update on our full year outlook for corporate expenses at the Second Quarter Call in midyear.
So -- and further information on this segment is provided in the supplemental information that's provided with the earnings release.
So if you turn to Slide 12.
I'll cover our first quarter cash flow.
We generated $3.6 billion in cash from operations this quarter excluding working capital.
And working capital was a source of $1 billion in cash.
We also generated $1.1 billion in proceeds from the sale of Cedar Creek Anticline asset and some other small assets.
So you'll notice that the working capital change this quarter is large and the biggest single component of this change relates to the impact of the Cedar Creek Anticline asset sales -- asset sale.
The -- and the nature of accounting for asset sales is that the pretax value of the asset sale's proceeds shows up on the cash flow statement in the cash from investing activities but the tax impacts from asset sales end up in the cash from operations portion of the cash flow statement.
And tax impacts from the CCA disposition has impacted both the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 cash from operations -- cash from operating activities.
So absent the impacts from this transaction cash flow from operations before working capital would have been approximately $4 billion in both the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 and the working capital change in the first quarter of 2013 would have been closer to $600 million.
Moving to capital.
We funded a $3.6 billion capital program for continuing operations in the quarter.
And we expect that capital expenditures will be higher in the subsequent quarters of 2013.
So finishing up the cash flow statement.
We paid out roughly $800 million in our recent quarterly dividend and this left us with a strong cash position at quarter end of around $5.4 billion.
So our balance sheet and the financials situation remain strong.
We continue to be well positioned to execute on our -- on the programs that are going to generate the volume and margin growth for the company.
So that concludes the financial overview.
And now I'll turn over call over to Matt for an update on operations.
Thanks Jeff.
As both Ellen and Jeff mentioned general theme of this quarter's operational performance is that we are on plan.
Jeff covered the financials results by segment but I'm going to cover the operations material by the capital buckets we reviewed at the Analyst Meeting in February.
So these are our high-quality base our relatively low-risk development programs that completely mitigate base decline our major projects and our exploration programs.
And we think of these buckets as distinct parts of our strategy that when aggregated will drive growth in volumes margins and returns over time.
So let's start with our base asset discussion on Page 14.
Just as a reminder our base refers to the assets that we're producing at the end of last year which comprised about 1.5 million BOE per day of continuing operations.
During the first quarter of this year our base production performed essentially as expected.
Around the business were some winter-related downtime in the San Juan Basin that Jeff talked about the majority of which has been restored.
In addition as we discussed last quarter our Calder field in East Irish Sea is down pending completion of a new asset plant.
As we discussed in the Fourth Quarter Call and at the Analyst Meeting I want to remind you that we have some significant downtime planned during the next 2 quarters.
In our operated assets alone we expect downtime to be about 30% higher than our 5-year historic average and much of this higher downtime is related to what then needs to be performed to tie in new production in many of our operations.
And we also expect higher-than-average downtime in several of our key non-operated assets this year.
So I thought it would be worthwhile taking a moment to give you some highlights listed on this slide.
First the Greater Ekofisk complex schedules a major shutdown every 3 years during the summer.
This year's planned shutdown will be the largest ever in the Greater Ekofisk area and in fact it will be the largest shutdown in ConocoPhillips' history.
So this is a big deal and our planning is going well.
The shutdown at Ekofisk itself will start in early June and last about a month.
In addition to planned maintenance we will be completing ground fieldwork for Ekofisk South production beginning later this year.
Also Eldfisk is planned to shut down in late May for a period of about 70 days this work will include preparations for the tie-in and startup of Eldfisk 2 in late 2014.
Likewise in U.K.
we have a significant J-Area shutdown planned also for June coinciding with the Greater Ekofisk shutdown.
And similar to the Norway work a key goal of this planned event is to make preparations for the Jasmine field tie-in and startup later in the year.
We also have significant turnarounds planned in Alaska the oil sands Indonesia and the Lower 48.
So this really is a big year for planned shutdowns.
But before I leave this slide I want to make a key point.
Our 2013 production guidance hasn't changed except we've narrowed the range for the full year and have slight increase to the midpoint.
We provided quarterly detail for our 2013 production outlook in the Appendix section of today's presentation and we presented this information for both continuing operations and discontinued operations for the rest of this year.
And we've shown both conventions because we know there's a mix in the analyst modules out there.
We want to make sure there's no confusion.
Now let me give you a little more color specifically on the Lower 48 second quarter volume expectations.
The sale of the Cedar Creek Anticline properties will reduce our base production by about 11 000 BOE per day compared to the first quarter.
That combined with the second quarter planned downtime and underlying decline should be completely offset by production growth from our development programs so as a result we expect second quarter production from the Lower 48 to be about the same as first quarter production.
So moving on to the development programs on Slide 15.
These are the low-risk drilling-led programs around the world that completely mitigate a decline with high margins and high returns.
These programs remain on track across the globe to deliver the 600 000 BOE per day of production by 2017 that you can see in the top left graphic.
Among our legacy fields in Alaska Kaparuk coiled tubing drilling sidetracks continued; and Western Canada with its high uptime due to mild weather and good results from this year's winter drilling program.
Results across the Lower 48 development programs are also strong.
So beginning in Eagle Ford first quarter production averaged 101 000 BOE per day with a peak net production of 110 000 BOE per day.
So volumes were up 13% sequentially compared to 89 000 BOE per day in the fourth quarter of last year.
We expect to complete the drilling phase of each acreage capture in the Eagle Ford by mid this year and then be fully held by production by the end of the year.
And as we approach this milestone we're focused on planning for full field development.
Moving to the Bakken.
Production averaged 29 000 BOE a day an increase of 5 000 versus the fourth quarter or about 21% increase.
In both the Eagle Ford and the Bakken plays we continue to evaluate and implement infrastructure and marketing solutions to improve our margins.
For example we continue to install stabilizers in the Eagle Ford to allow us to more effectively ship our light crude production.
In the Permian Basin we're increasing activity in both the conventional and the unconventional plays where we hold 1.1 million net acres.
We're currently testing several unconventional plays in both the Delaware and Midland Basin.
For example we're seeing good results from early tests of Avalon wells in the Delaware Basin where about 60% of the production stream is liquids.
And we hope to have more results here to share soon.
In the Permian conventional development program we now have our 4-operated rigs running.
Our current plan assumes we'll bring on about 135 wells this year an increase of 48% compared to 2012.
So these efforts will protect our base production against generating strong margin and returns.
So we've got a lot of good things going on in our development programs and we will have for the remainder of the year.
Now let's turn to our major projects on Slide 16.
Our major projects remain on track to deliver the 400 000 BOE per day of production by 2017 that you can see in the top-left graph.
Our oil sands properties continue to perform on plan.
And currently we have 7 major projects in execution there.
The combined oil sand properties averaged 109 000 BOE per day during the quarter up 3% sequentially.
Christina Lake Phase E is on track to start up in the third quarter of this year which will contribute to the continuing ramp-up of production.
In the Asia Pacific region an additional 8 Panyu Growth wells are brought online in the first quarter bringing the total new well count to 17 wells and these wells contributed more than 6 000 BOE per day net by the end of the quarter.
In Malaysia the floating production system from Gumusut and the Siakap North-Petai projects are both on track for a fourth quarter startup.
At Curtis Island module installation got underway at APLNG this quarter.
This is a big milestone for the project and it shows that we're still on schedule for first LNG in 2015.
Activity in both the U.K.
and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea is high.
The picture shown in the bottom left here is of the Jasmine topside installation that began in March and was completed earlier this month.
The offshore hookup and commissioning work has now commenced with first production still expected in the fourth quarter.
At Ekofisk South the project is progressing well.
We're on plan for selling [ph] in June.
We expect the set the topside this summer and achieve first oil production by the end of this year.
So as you can tell it's a very busy year for major projects in ConocoPhillips.
We've got a lot of exciting things underway in terms of growth and margin catalysts.
For example the 4 major projects we're bringing on this year Jasmine Ekofisk South Gumusut and SNP hold a total average production of about 80 000 BOE per day in 2014.
But this is actually only half of the total production that will be added from all of our major projects in 2014.
We'll also add production from projects at FCCL increasing production at APLNG for domestic sales and several other smaller projects around the company.
And of course there's the incremental production in 2014 that is an addition to the production that we'll be adding from our development programs which essentially maintain base production flat.
Now the next 2 quarters are really important but I know our people are up to the task of safely executing our plans.
So next I want to briefly cover our exploration programs starting with the Gulf of Mexico on Slide 17.
As most of you know we announced 2 significant Gulf of Mexico deepwater discoveries this quarter: Shenandoah and Coronado.
Shenandoah was the first appraisal well following a 2009 discovery and we have 30% equity.
This first appraisal well exceeded pre-drill expectations of over 1 000 feet of net pay.
And it looks to have good reservoir quality and good oil quality.
And unfortunately we drilled down depth of the discovery well but we didn't find a water column.
At Coronado we announced the discovery of a large 3-way closure subsalt.
This well discovered more than 400 feet of net pay with good-quality reservoir.
And we have 35% of this discovery.
And the operators is now on location drilling an appraisal sidetrack from the discovery well.
During the quarter we continued to build a leasehold position in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico through our participation in the recent March lease sale.
The chart in the lower left shows our growing acreage position much of which is still in primary term and the flexibility this provides as a real advantage.
Then finally in the Gulf of Mexico we've got a very active drilling program underway or planned for the remainder of the year.
Currently we're drilling at the Ardennes well a lower-tertiary wildcat and we have 30% interest in the well.
We expect to spud the COP-operated Thorn well any day now which is an upper-tertiary wildcat where we have 65% working interest.
Also coming up in the second quarter the Tiber appraisal well is expected to spud where have an 18% interest.
And then later in the year the Deep Nansen wildcat well will spud which is a lower tertiary prospect where we have a 25% interest.
So 2013 is clearly a very big year for our deepwater Gulf of Mexico program.
We're really excited about this and we hope that we have other meaningful results to share with you as the year progresses.
Moving to Slide 18.
And here I just want to take a minute to update you on our other unconventional and conventional exploration programs outside the Gulf of Mexico.
In Canada we drilled logged and cored 2 wells in the Canol play.
This is a Devonian shale that we believe is in the oil window on Train with a prolific Horn River gas play.
We're planning to go back to this area next winter for a multi-well program including a horizontal well production test.
In the Niobrara play we drilled 3 wells in the first quarter.
Currently our pace is somewhat limited by gathering and infrastructure build-out here.
Our well results are encouraging but it's still early days.
In the second quarter we expect to drill our first well in Colombia in the Middle Magdalena basin in the La Luna shale play.
Moving on to our conventional programs.
In Alaska we drilled a wildcat discovery at the Cassin prospect in the onshore NPR-A.
In Kwanza Basin in Angola we completed the second phase of our 3D seismic program in early April and we're in full planning mode to begin drilling early next year.
And finally in the Browse Basin of Australia we're currently drilling a Proteus wildcat in an untested structure to the southeast of the Poseidon discovery and we expect to reach TD in late May.
So there've been a lot exploration activity in the first quarter and that continues into the second quarter.
So that was a pretty quick overview of our operations which are running well very high level of activity and generating visible results.
So now please return to Slide 19 and I'll wrap up with some summary comments.
I think the most important takeaway from today's call is that the business is running well.
I hope Jeff and I have given you confidence that our plans are on track for delivering key milestones in 2013 that will position us for a very strong 2014.
Our value proposition remains intact.
We expect to make progress on our announced asset divestitures in 2013 which will provide financial flexibility for funding our growth programs and our dividend remains a top priority.
Operationally we're approaching a very significant inflection point for the company the momentum coming out of 2013 should be strong.
We're delivering visible results from our conventional and unconventional exploration programs that will sustain our growth into the future.
And very importantly we're delivering our operational performance safely and efficiently.
Finally we are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet that can provide financial flexibility.
We're seeing the early stages of cash margin expansion which should improve as our volumes grow.
And as always we'll maintain our focus on improving returns.
The bottom line is that we are committed to creating long-term value by delivering 3% to 5% growth in production and margins with a compelling dividend.
We're executing on this strategy and we're committed to keeping you updated on our progress.
So now we are pleased to take your questions.
And Christine I'll hand it back to you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could give us an exit rate in the quarter for the Eagle Ford.
The exit rate was about 110 000 BOE per day and for -- and we're continuing to grow production.
I think we had a new peak production on Monday of 116 000 BOE per day in Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and where do you kind of see this going towards the end of the year at? Right now in the Eagle Ford we're in a pretty linear growth trend.
And we will see that continuing essentially as we go through the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on the recent change in the legislation in Alaska on the progressive tax what do you mean? You said you're going to add a rig to Alaska.
What's the current thinking now with the new tax regime in place? So we've been encouraged by the changes to the regime.
We've been advocating this for some time.
And then the change will encourage additional investment in Alaska.
So we're -- and we were looking at that.
We've got a long list of projects that we are evaluating now.
And we did announce that we're immediate starting to increase with this new rig that we're bringing in and that rig is going to be very focused on working over existing wells and adding production that way.
But we do have quite a few capital projects that we're now evaluating the impacts of the fiscal regime on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is still in terms of Alaska.
So the -- you guys laid out I guess a production sort of decline in Alaska over the course of this year.
Does this rig and the new activities sort of mitigate that decline rate and by how much? You won't really see any significant change in the short term.
But the -- but the issue is given the new fiscal regime our incremental capital investments worth are now competitive.
And we think they will be but we're taking that through our overall planning process this year.
And we'll be more equipped to talk about that later in the year.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Research Division</strong> In March at the Analyst Meeting the company provided a pretty detailed outlook for production and cash margins.
And on this point I think U.S.
production from liquid-rich play rose by over 40% versus the year-ago period which is obviously a pretty strong result.
But my question is on profitability and specifically whether cash margins in these plays are strengthening as you thought that they might and also whether there are any other performance-related factors that are worth mentioning in the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Permian developments that you have underway? Yes the -- pretty much.
As Matt mentioned the production is happening pretty much as we expected from all 3 plays the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Permian.
And production from these is all -- well Eagle Ford is 60% oil and 20% NGLs and 20% gas so that's really strong cash margins.
And Bakken of course is mostly oil.
And the Permian is a -- got a very favorable mix as well.
So cash margins from all these assets are really much higher than our -- than the average of our current portfolio.
So as you see the portfolio the whole -- you're starting to see that show up now finally in Lower 48 cash margins as that portfolio has moved now towards kind of about half liquids to where it was only 45% a year ago.
So you're getting to -- you're starting to see that all across the portfolio.
Cash margins have been a little bit hurt in Canada because of the recent weakness in bitumen prices but we see that that's going to start recovering as well.
So overall the -- it's kind of Matt was summarizing.
We see the trajectory of the growth in production happening as we thought it was going to.
And it's -- that trajectory of growing production is going to cause -- growing the production at higher margins is going to cause cash margin to increase over time.
So production growth is on plan and margin growth is on plan as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jeff I think that you mentioned your efforts on optimization and how higher net backs as I think the way you talked about it.
And on this point I wanted to see if you could highlight some of the specifics that are being undertaken to improve the netbacks to the company on production.
Yes I think we talked about how a lot of -- in particular what we're trying to make sure is that it's not going to be talking about [ph] marketing in Eagle Ford for example.
Matt maybe you want to talk some about what we're doing there? Yes.
So our goal here Doug is to have as much optionality as we can because as you know there's a lot of volatility and various markers in the production itself in all 3 of those basins.
So we're -- so for example in the Eagle Ford just now the way that we're set up for our sales we're realizing WTI plus about $5 from Eagle Ford and that's a mixture of production that's going by pipeline.
A lot of production is still going by truck.
And some of our production is priced off LLS some of it's priced off WTI.
And our liquids the non-NGL liquids are sold as a light sweet crude.
And because they've got very high-value metal distillate that makes them good refinery products so they're not going being sold as condensate.
And so we're -- and we feel good about the liquid and the gas takeaway capacity just now in the Eagle Ford.
In the Bakken we're actually realizing WTI minus about $5 on average in the Bakken.
And we've got a mixture of offtake as well: About 30% is by pipeline just now about 25% we're selling to rails -- to railers to bring it south to capture the WTI-Brent spread.
And so we're managing that I think very well.
And we're developing a lot of optionality to make sure that we have flexibility to maximize our realizations.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Rakesh for Ed.
Quick question on your -- if you can give any updates on your Canadian asset disposals where we are in the process over there.
Yes.
We're still evaluating our options for diluting our position in the Canadian oil sands.
We've got quite a few alternatives that we're considering quite a lot of interest in those assets and -- but we're not in a hurry.
This is an important strategic transaction for the company so we're still thinking through the -- which of these alternatives we want to pursue.
The next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is real quick.
Matt I think in Eagle Ford that you're primarily frac oil.
And do you have any rough estimate in terms of the spread between frac oil condensate NGL and gas for your position in the Niobrara Wolfcamp and Canol Shale? It's still very early days from the -- in all of those.
And they -- we do see -- have a higher liquids yield in the Niobrara for example.
And the wells we've tested there all have a high crude oil yield.
The -- in the Permian I think the most recent stuff I saw from our Avalon wells was 60% crude oil percentage.
And then I think you mentioned the Canol.
We don't have a well test in the Canol yet we just had -- we just tried -- drilled and cored and logged to those wells so we don't have an estimate of that yet.
Research Division</strong> And Matt when you say crude oil you're really referring is frac oil it's not condensate and NGL right when you say 60% in the Wolfcamp? That's correct.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that in the Colombia when you drilled the first well the vertical well are you going to also frac it? Are you just going to say get some core sample? I think the first well we're just going to get core samples and some frac -- some dynamic fracture testing.
But I don't think we plan to run a full frac on the first well.
Research Division</strong> And maybe this is for Jeff that any update about the Canadian oil sand sales where we -- where are we in the process? I think as Matt mentioned I think on -- previously we're still evaluating the options that we have in the Canadian oil sands process.
And that's something that we're going to be taking our time doing because there are a lot of different potential routes we could go with that transaction.
Research Division</strong> So we should not necessarily assume that this is going to have a final decision made by company within this year.
Yes I think that'll be fair.
It's a transaction we're going to be working on throughout this year and could potentially be in the next year as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Matt on the -- on Shenandoah that is a monster well.
Given that it's so great in terms of the size should we assume from a time line standpoint the development you may actually need to -- at least another 2 year for additional appraisal well and then after that 2 year of the same [ph] and then maybe 4 year of the actual construction of the platform and all that? So were you talking about more like in the 2020 2021 kind of time line? So we're still working that Paul.
It's a good question.
And we're in the middle of working out the time line and the appraisal requirements for that well.
And so it's too early to give you a time line for that.
The next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions please.
Matt on the Eagle Ford there's -- a number of companies now have started to chatter about the Pearsall and the [indiscernible] on their recent acreage.
I'm just wondering if you are moving that -- in that direction and if there's anything you can share with us in terms of how it might augment the existing program.
Yes yes we know that that potential exists on our acreage.
And so that's -- we're really regarding that right now as upside relative to the Eagle Ford shale itself.
But you're right that potential could be quite significant.
Research Division</strong> But nothing in terms of exploration activity or appraisal activity at this point.
Not right now.
No not right now.
Research Division</strong> Jeff my follow-up is on the cash margin comment.
I'm looking for a bit of help here really.
This is probably the key to -- or one of the keys to the investment case I guess is the growth and the margin expansion you spent a fair amount of time talking about it.
Your liquids production was up 57% versus 55% as a proportion but every liquids realization year-over-year was down pretty quite materially and the only realization that was up was gas.
So I'm trying to understand how does the cash margin grow in that environment? But my numbers is not growing and I'm trying to understand how you're getting to these numbers.
Are you normalizing for the base portfolio after asset sales? Or is there something else going on there? So let me kind of take that in kind of short-term and long-term impact.
So...
Research Division</strong> I'm looking Q1 over Q1...
Yes.
It's what I would call short-term impacts.
Cash margins there's -- always there are going to be a lot of things that go into cash margins that would create a lot of noise when you look kind of quarter-over-quarter or even somewhat year-over-year.
So it depends not just on what price levels happened -- or what went on with price levels which moved a little bit in this year-over-year time period.
As we showed our realized price overall it went down by about 3%.
overall.
The cash margins went up.
So it's what is making up -- it's the tax rates at which those -- that production is happening as well makes a lot of difference.
And as you point out we did have some improvement in natural gas prices in that time frame which helped margins.
So what we showed in the call today which is what happened to actual cash margins year-over-year including the impact of prices.
Now what we think is important though is what happened in the cash margins over the long term kind of in a flat price environment and that's what we really tend to talk more about like that we spend a lot of time talking about it in the analyst presentation.
And as you go long term it's the impact of adding oil production LNG production oil sands production and changing the mix in the portfolio as well as the geographies in which you add them.
And that's just the same way we pointed out on today's call that you could observe year-over-year cash margins increases and there's going to be noise around that as we go forward.
And I won't say that every quarter we'll see an increase but over time as we move our portfolio to higher liquids percentages and change the geographies that you're going to see an improvement in that cash margin.
Research Division</strong> Well only just to be clear then.
I'm looking at first quarter '13 over first quarter '12 you're saying it's up 6%.
How much of that was the gas price improvement? Gee I don't know.
I don't think I've -- we haven't dissected to that and try to allocate it out to different components.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you in the Gulf of Mexico.
You talked about Shenandoah.
And as I understand that you've got about 180 000 acres in -- primarily in the Green Canyon area where you have 100% and I believe the plants are to start drilling in that in 2014.
I'm just curious if -- how we should think about farm-down potential there.
Do you maybe have increased appetite to keep a higher working interest given the success in the area? I think it's more likely that we would start drilling there in maybe 2015 than 2014.
We've got some new high-quality seismic across that whole acreage position that you're referring to and we expect to see some very high and -- good-looking prospects there.
And until we get to the stage where we're ready to get them on the drilling program that's when we'll think about if we went to bring someone in before we drill to farm-in.
So we haven't got to the stage of making that decision yet but we really are quite excited about that zip code.
This is definitely looking very good.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Secondly I guess it's on the natural gas side.
I always view Conoco as having probably more leverage than peers to U.S.
natural gas.
And certainly that creates some optionality.
I -- obviously we haven't heard anything on increased activity just yet but is there a certain price that we should kind of earmark as -- say $5 in Mcf where maybe you would begin to increase in activity there? We did have a lot of potential there transactionally.
We're really focusing our investment just now on the liquids-rich assets.
And of course we get associated gas with that so we benefit from the gas price there.
And I would say that -- I wouldn't see us redirecting any capital towards gas assets until we're seeing it significantly north of the current prices the...
On a sustained basis.
Yes.
And I think that's the point to it: We'd have to get comfortable the prices have made some kind of move that is sustainable to a higher level.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff saying that I'm assuming -- I mean given your history you're not the type to hedge so I'm assuming that's not something you'd be looking to do...
That's correct.
You'd be -- you don't likely to see us hedge.
Our next question is from Brandon Mei of Tudor Pickering.
Just on the Gulf of Mexico exploration plans.
Obviously you've got a lot going on there.
But just wanted to get some color on how you see the new prospects and how they differ from what you've learned on Shenandoah and Coronado.
And then secondly I think you have one rig operator rig for Thorn.
Just wanted to see if there's opportunity to increase that.
Yes.
So we -- across our Gulf of Mexico portfolio we've got a mixture of pliocene miocene and then the lower tertiary.
The majority of the increase we've been picking up has been focused on the lower tertiary.
And then we do have some balance in the portfolio there.
We have this operated wide single slot to drill the Thorn well and then we have -- we're picking up a long-term rig contract with a new-build first coming in in 2014 the beginning of 2014 and we're sharing that 50-50 with another operator.
And we're currently evaluating our needs for more rig capability in the Gulf of Mexico and the deepwater rig capability in general.
So we expect to be adding to our operator capacity here over the next couple of years.
Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess maybe just to beat the cash margin horse a little bit more.
As you're looking at it as we think over next let's say certainly the next couple of quarters where we're going to see the downtime issues plus the asset sales actually get completed I know you maybe haven't broken it down by all the segments as you said between the prices and all but as we think about those projects that you're selling dropping away a resurgence in activity off the downtime as we kind of look at say the fourth quarter and then on into '14 what would you expect to see on the cash margin side I mean understanding that the next 2 quarters may be a little bit obscured in terms of what you're actually achieving? And maybe how much of it is an improvement of dropping off the projects you're exiting? Yes so there's always so much -- there's always going to be a fair bit of volatility just based on what's going on with prices.
So do you step -- you almost have to set that aside to start with.
So if you think about what we said at our analyst presentation we're kind of going from a mid-20s kind of cash margin today over the next several years where prices stay the same that's kind of a low-30s type number.
And that's being driven by new production coming online that's different.
And new production has kind of happened on a favorably ratable basis over the next -- between now and 2017.
You'll really start to see that happening for us kind of in the fourth quarter of this year as new projects start up and then also you're kind of ramping up on some of the Lower 48 assets as well.
So it's going to be if prices didn't change then you'd see a fairly steady increase on our cash margins over that time frame but I can't really tell you even how it's going to be in the second quarter or the third quarter.
I think you were asking a question of well "How about the impact of things dropping out of our portfolio?" And you kind of are already -- seeing that already because we started reporting Algeria Nigeria -- well Kashagan didn't have any production right now but we started reporting those assets as discontinued operations.
So actually having those sold probably not going to change much from the presentation that you see today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess that was part of my question that -- so the $26.53 in Q1 is the right sort of run rate going forward? Yes yes.
Right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as you think about Alaska what would be the time frame in which you'd be able to reevaluate your existing projects or let's say -- call your inventory of projects and actually make it a decision going forward that we would maybe begin to think about Alaska as something other than a declining production province and something that could actually grow? So Roger we'll be doing that as we go through our planning process this summer and into the fall in looking at how this change in the fiscal regime influences the competitiveness of the incremental projects that we can see there.
And we'll put that in the mix.
And I certainly expect to see us a onetime increase on investment in Alaska based of this change.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if we think about budgeting this fall given the time to get equipment up there and all you'd really be looking at probably the winter of I guess '14 '15 to get more active? In some areas we can ramp up that quickly.
That's pretty fast for somewhere like the north slope.
But of course if it's major projects and adding new phases of well site development or adding new drill sites and product or an NPR-A these things take quite about longer than that and -- to get moving.
Our next question is from Iain Reid of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
A couple of questions about Australia to begin with if you don't mind.
On Poseidon you've drilled several wells there now and also farmed it down.
I wonder if you can say how close you are now to getting into say feed and what you're thinking about in terms of a potential development.
Is it going to be a stand-alone development or maybe tied back to something else? Obviously Woodside recently pushed their browsing back a little bit now.
So that was the first thing.
And the second thing is on APLNG.
You've been trying to farm this out for a while trying to farm down further than your current interest.
Is there any progress on that? Or did the -- or the appetite of people for Australian coal seam gas kind of diminished a little bit compared to where we were a couple of years ago? That was the first 2.
So -- okay so let's take Poseidon first.
So to answer the questions you were asking what's the right development plan there where should we take the gas.
That's the whole purpose of the appraisal program that's underway just now.
And we anticipate the appraisal program will be somewhere between 5 and 8 wells.
So we'll be appraising all the way through this year and probably into early year.
And the whole purpose of the appraisal program is to get us the data that we need to optimize the development plan.
So yes that's what we're about in Poseidon.
On APLNG we have said that we would be interested in -- at the right value to dilute a bit further in APLNG.
That's not likely to happen this year.
So we're -- that's sort of in the back burner for the time being.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay last one is on the Chukchi.
You've had to put that on hold for regulatory issues.
What exactly are these issues? Isn't it knock on from what happened to Shell up there? And once you get drilling there how do you kind of rank that region compared to other areas where you've been pretty successful recently say the Gulf of Mexico? So in the Chukchi the reason that we decided not to go out in there in 2014 was that we were in the cusp of having to make some very significant commitments for rigs for vessels and so on.
And we just felt as if there wasn't enough stability in the way that the regulatory framework was shaping up for us to be able to do that with confidence knowing that we'd be able to get the permits and then go out there and actually drill when the rigs turned up.
So we just felt that the prudent thing to do is to take a pause there and see how things -- see -- let things evolve a little bit before we decide to drill those wells.
As far as the prospectivity is concerned I mean we still like the prospectivity in the Chukchi.
There's a lot of potential out there.
So we haven't given up on drilling in Chukchi.
We just looked -- we said that we're not going to go out there in 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're looking at a 2015 program then.
Is that the kind of way to think about it? Yes potentially.
We've been -- really what we have to understand is what the -- is make sure that we fully understand the regulatory framework and so that we know what we're getting ready for and make sure that we can be ready for that.
And Christine we're right at top of the hour.
I want to respect everybody's time.
We're happy to take -- Vlad and I are happy to take any additional questions you might have.
I want to thank all of you for your participation.
And enjoy the rest of the day.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2013 ConocoPhillips' Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sheri and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis the Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Ellen you may begin.
Thank you so much Sherry and of course thank you to our listeners for joining this second quarter earnings call.
I’m joined in the room today by Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO; Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and CFO; and Matt Fox our EVP of Exploration and Production.
It’s a very busy day for earnings activity.
I know all of you are pressed for time.
So we’re going to jump right into the material today really quickly before we get started.
If you would please turn to Page 2 you will see our Safe Harbor statement.
That of course described the risks and uncertainties in our future performance.
Those are also described in our periodic filings with the SEC.
I’m going to turn the call over to Ryan now.
Thank you Ellen and good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us today.
Well it’s been just over a year since we launched the independent ConocoPhillips as a new class of investment.
We’ve laid out a plan that would deliver growth and volumes and margins with a compelling yield.
I think as you’re all hear and see today the key pieces of our strategy are falling into place.
For the second quarter in a row organic volumes net of dispositions and planned downtime are growing.
Margins are improving.
We’re maintaining our commitment to a compelling dividend reflecting our confidence in our plans and our financial position remained strong.
So the theme of today’s call is pretty simple.
We are successfully executing on our business plan.
We’re doing what we said we would do.
We continue to keep our eye on the ball and the top priority for of all of us at ConocoPhillips is to operate safely and execute our plans and programs.
So let’s get started on Slide 4.
Operationally our business performed very well this quarter.
We produced 1.552 million BOE per day on a total company basis and 1.51 million BOE per day on a continuing operations basis.
Adjusted for dispositions and planned downtime this represents 4% organic growth compared to a year ago.
Last quarter we grew 2% on the same basis.
So the organic growth is showing up in our performance.
This quarter’s volume performance exceeded the high end of our guidance range and this is primarily due to two things; better than expected performance at Eagle Ford in our Europe and Asia Pacific regions and our seasonal maintenance and planned downtime was executed ahead of plan.
Based on this quarter’s stronger than expected volume performance we’re raising our third quarter and full year volume guidance which Matt will cover in more detail.
As you know the second quarter was a very active period for planned maintenance and we successfully executed key turnarounds.
That’s essential to projecting our base assets.
In addition our development activities also have performed well this quarter.
And remember these are lower risk programs with years of inventory that completely mitigate our base decline.
Of these the Eagle Ford stood out in the second quarter.
Production averaged more than 120 000 BOE per day almost double last year’s second quarter rate and up 20% sequentially.
Our major growth projects are also on track.
These are projects that will generate step-function growth during the next several quarters and years and we have several near-term startups that Matt will also describe in detail.
So operationally we are hitting the milestones we set for ourselves.
Now moving to the financial results adjusted earnings were about $1.8 billion or $1.41 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings were up 17% year-over-year.
Excluding working capital we generated $4.4 billion in cash from continuing operations and ended the quarter with $4 billion of cash in short-term investments.
On a year-to-date basis our cash from continuing operations plus our proceeds from asset sales have covered our dividend and capital programs.
Cash margins grew compared to last year’s second quarter reflecting the impact of product mix prices and location and strategically this is one of the keys to achieving our value proposition is high-grading our portfolio by selling non-strategic assets and redeploying those proceeds into organic investments that will drive future growth and we’re making good progress on our announced divestiture program.
Since the beginning of this year we’ve received approximately $1.7 billion in proceeds from asset sales and we expect to close Algeria Nigeria and Kashagan by year-end.
These would add approximately $9 billion of additional proceeds in 2013.
As we previously discussed our portfolio efforts will now shift to improving and rebalancing the asset base.
We’ll take opportunities to divest the smaller non-strategic assets such as southwest Louisiana conventional assets that we sold in the second quarter.
And we’ll also look for ways to rebalance our interest and assets like the oil sands.
These are great assets but one where we believe we’re bit overweighted in our portfolio today.
At the same time we’re monetizing assets.
We’re also adding to our conventional and unconventional exploration inventory globally and we’re running this program at a high level of activity.
Exploration success like we’ve recently seen at Coronado and Shenandoah is key to sustain any organic growth longer terms.
Despite this high level of activity our 2013 capital outlook is relatively unchanged.
We expect to spend about $15.9 billion on continuing operations and $600 million in discontinued operations.
That’s a total of $16.5 billion which is an increase of about 4% compared to our announced total company budget.
Of this 4% increase about half reflects our updated expectations around completing the sales of Algeria Nigeria and Kashagan.
So this is capital that will come back to us as adjustments at closing.
The remainder of the increase are about 2% reflects various adjustments across our asset base including high quality additions to our exploration portfolio.
Finally we remain committed to returning capital to our shareholders.
Right after the quarter ended we increased our dividend by 4.5% reflecting confidence in our growth plans and we have remained committed to consistent dividend increases over time.
So in summary we have a strong quarter operationally financially and strategically.
So next you’ll hear from Jeff and Matt who will give you all the details.
So if you please turn to Slide 5 and let Jeff begin his comments on our financial performance.
Thank you Ryan.
This quarter’s adjusted earnings were $1.75 billion or $1.41 per diluted share.
This was above consensus driven primarily by the higher than expected volumes that Ryan just mentioned.
Second quarter adjusted earnings were up 17% compared to last year’s second quarter and on an earnings per share basis adjusted earnings were up 19% reflecting the impact of our 2012 share repurchases.
The year-over-year increase in adjusted earnings was primarily driven by higher margins.
The higher margins reflect the continued shift to higher-value liquids in the portfolio as well as the shift to more favorable fiscal machines.
Average realized prices were flat and total company volumes were up modestly.
Now I’ll cover our production performance for the quarter.
So if you’ll turn to Slide 6.
Total company production in the second quarter was 1.552 million BOE per day.
These results included 42 000 BOE per day from discontinued operations.
This chart shows the change in both continuing and discontinued operations compared to the second quarter 2012 but I’ll focus on the continuing operations.
Second quarter 2012 production from continuing operations was 1.48 9 million BOE per day.
Adjusting for dispositions of 33 000 BOE per day normalized production from continuing operations was 1.456 million BOE per day in last year’s second quarter and that’s the middle blue bar on the chart.
During the second quarter of 2013 planned downtime was 10 000 BOE per day higher than last year’s second quarter which was mostly due to downtime in the North Sea.
Growth of 219 000 Boe per day more than offset decline of 155 000 Boe per day.
So normalized for 2012 dispositions and planned downtime our production from continuing operations increased by 64 000 Boe per day which I will explain more in the next slide.
Year-over-year this represents a 4% organic growth and the second consecutive quarter on this upward trend.
So let me take a moment and talk about cash margin trends on slide 7 and 8 starting with contributions from our production growth.
So this chart on slide 7 is a new one it shows how our second quarter growth and changing mix drove cash margin improvement compared to last year.
As I just mentioned volumes from our continuing operations were up 64 000 Boe per day year-over-year adjusted for dispositions and planned downtime.
This chart shows the change in this quarters volumes by segment and product compared to last year’s second quarter.
So as you can see the relative growth which is shown in the green bars is primarily from higher value of liquids.
In addition it’s occurring in areas with more favorable fiscal terms in the company average Normal fuel declines in Alaska Europe and North America natural gas somewhat offset the growth.
The impact of the shift on our cash margins can be seen on the next slide slide 8.
This slide shows sequential and year-over-year cash margins both on a reported basis and a price normalized basis.
As you can see on the chart on the left cash margins grew on a reported basis despite flat overall realized prices compared to the last year’s second quarter.
In terms of prices we generally saw North America natural gas prices being offset by decreases in Brent crude prices.
So the chart on the left reflects the impact of product mix prices in location and you can see this from the chart the cash margins grew both sequentially and year-over-year.
But the right side of this chart shows this is an estimate of what our cash margins would have been if we had the same pricing in all quarters and we have used the second quarter of 2012 at the baselines that’s pricing $93 at WTI $108 Brent and $2.20 Henry Hub.
You can see that on this price normalized basis the cash margins grew significantly year-over-year and also grew sequentially.
So this metric will tend to be volatile on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
However we expect this trend to continue as we shift our production towards higher value products in places with more favorable fiscal terms.
We will continue to periodically track and report this metric as growing both production and margins is a key aspect of our value proposition.
So now I will turn to the segment slide beginning with Lower 48 on slide 9.
Production in this segment was 491 000 BOE per day that’s up 11% compared to last year’s second quarter and up 3% sequentially.
We saw this improvement despite the sale of the Cedar Creek Anticline assets in the first quarter of 2013.
Total liquids production in the segment increased 20% compared to the same period a year ago and now represents 48% of the total mix for the segment and we expect our liquids percentage to continue to grow.
During the quarter combined production from the Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian Basin averaged 203 000 BOE per day and that’s up 47% from a year ago.
These assets made up less than 9% of our total company production a year ago and today these assets comprise 13% of our total company production and we expect they will continue to grow.
Segment adjusted earnings this quarter generally reflects higher realized prices compared to the same period a year-ago but they also include the foreign dry hole costs and leasehold impairment of approximately $70 million after-tax.
Excluding that charge segment adjusted earnings would have been almost $250 million as you can see the leverage and earnings due to the growth and the shift to liquids.
Now let’s cover the Canada segment on Slide 10.
Production in this segment is $271 000 BOE per day roughly flat compared to last year’s second quarter.
Liquids grew 12% year-over-year while gas production declined 9%.
The shift has increased segment margins which continue to improve margins overtime.
Production was impacted in the second quarter by 9 000 BOE per day as a result of planned downtime at Christina Lake.
Canada’s adjusted earnings of $5 million this quarter reflects stronger product pricing compared to last year and sequentially.
And as a reminder the WCS prices in our supplemental information represents one month lag which better reflects our pricing for Bitumen.
Now let’s move to the Alaska segment on Slide 11.
Production in Alaska was 197 000 BOE per day this quarter this was down sequentially due to planned downtime at Kuparuk and Prudhoe and normal field decline.
But despite lower sequential volumes adjusted earnings were $585 million this quarter which is up compared to last quarter.
Differences between the timing of production and sales explain much of the variance; the first quarter of this year included an adverse impact earnings of approximately $50 million from these lift timing impacts while this quarter included the benefit of about $25 million a positive swing of $75 million.
We continue to analyze the impact to our business related to the recent passage of Senate Bill 21 and we expect to pursue additional opportunities for investment over time.
I'll turn now to Slide 12 and talk about our Asia-Pacific and Middle East segment.
Production in this segment was 324 000 BOE per day during the second quarter up 20% compared to year ago and up 2% sequentially.
Key drivers of year-over-year performance were the resumption of normal production and growth at Bohai Bay growth at the Panyu project in China and early production from Gumusut in Malaysia which started late last year.
Adjusted earnings this quarter were unfavorably impacted by weaker prices and impacts from lift timing are minimal this quarter.
Europe the next segment is found on Slide 13.
Production for the Europe segment was 173 000 BOE per day during the quarter a decrease of 34 000 BOE per day sequentially.
This was driven by significant downtime in Greater Ekofisk area in Norway and the J-Area in the UK.
Compared to a year ago lower production is driven by higher planned and unplanned downtime normal field declines and dispositions.
Second quarter adjusted earnings for the segment were $261 million and segment performance should improve when major projects startup occur in the UK and Norway.
Before I wrap up the financial section of today's call with the discussion of cash flow let me provide an update on our corporate segment.
Our corporate segment adjusted earnings were negative $164 million in the quarter.
We are updating our annual guidance for this segment to be $750 million after-tax that's an $150 million improvement compared to our prior guidance.
Additional information for the corporate segment and the other international segments are included in the supplemental information that we provided with the earnings release.
We turn to Slide 14 I'll cover our year-to-date company cash flow waterfall.
Through the first half of 2013 we’ve generated $8 billion in cash from continuing operations excluding working capital.
Through June working capital was a better wash for the year.
Year-to-date we’ve generated $1.7 billion in proceeds from dispositions primarily from the sale of the Cedar Creek Anticline assets and partial working interest in the Browse and Canning Basin.
So far we’ve funded $7.5 billion capital program for continuing operations and paid out $1.6 billion in dividends.
Note that cash flow from operations and proceeds from dispositions have covered our dividend and capital program.
The $1.3 billion in debt and other reflects the repayment of approximately $900 million of debt at maturity during the quarter as well as capital associated with the discontinued operations.
Now something to note although we paid down $900 million in debt during the quarter our debt balance was unchanged as we recorded $900 million capital lease obligation for the Gumusut Floating Production System.
We have $4 billion in cash and short-term investments on hand which is just slightly lower than where we started the year.
So in summary our balance sheet and financial position remains strong and we believe are well positioned to execute our investment programs and our value proposition for the company.
I will now turn the call over to Matt for an update on operations beginning on Slide 15.
Thank you Jeff.
As both Ryan and Jeff mentioned the main theme of this quarter’s operational performance is that we are on plan just like last quarter.
So I am going to cover the operations material by our capital categories beginning with our high-quality base assets.
And as a reminder our base assets refer to the assets that we’re producing at the end of last year.
In June the second quarter these base assets performed very well across all of our operations and with minimal unplanned downtime.
So that means on average everything ran back better than expected because in our forecast we actually assume some unplanned downtime.
We protect the operating integrality of our base assets through plant maintenance.
As we discussed in the previous quarter call we have significant plant maintenance and tie-in scheduled for the second and third quarters of this year.
And our operated assets (inaudible) minority the downtime of 30% higher than our five year historical average.
The chart in the lower left shows the major planned events for 2013 and their duration.
As you can see many projects commenced later in the second quarter and a couple of these are still underway and others are scheduled to start in the third and fourth quarters.
And now a few highlights; in the North Sea turnarounds were successfully completed ahead of schedule at Ekofisk Eldfisk in the J-Area.
These activities included tie-ins for the major projects Ekofisk South Eldfisk II and Jasmine.
Turnarounds in the Lower 48 were successfully completed as well as the planned maintenance at Christina Lake.
We have additional planned downtime scheduled during the third and fourth quarters in Alaska the UK Foster Creek and Qatar.
So our base operations are running well and our turnarounds are on or ahead of schedule.
Moving on to our development programs on page 16 these development programs consists of lower risk drilling lead activities around the world that completely mitigate our base declines in generally higher margins and attractive returns.
These programs remain on track to deliver about 600 000 Boe per day of production by 2017 as shown in the top left graphic.
Our legacy conventional field development programs are on track.
For example in places like the Kuparuk field in Alaska coiled tubing drilling sidetracks continued in the second quarter.
In Western Canada we continue to see good results from margin enhancing drilling programs and the liquids rich plays we are focusing on.
Results across our Lower 48 development programs are very strong.
They produce 491 000 BOE per day in the second quarter and a high level of drilling activity continues.
A couple of highlights; Bakken produced an average of 30 000 boe per day up 15% compared to the first quarter last year and up 3% sequentially.
Heavy rains and flooding in the area impacted our second quarter activity but we are getting back on track with 11 rigs running.
The Eagle Ford exceeded our expectations in the second quarter.
Production averaged 121 000 boe per day almost double the same period last year and up 20% sequentially.
During the second quarter we brought on 65 operated wells including catching up on some of the well backlog we have.
And we continue to believe that our Eagle Ford position is truly best-in-class.
The charts on the lower left of this slide shows third-party data on our well performance compared to the top competitors in the fleet.
We are one of the top producers overall and we are producing higher oil volumes per well; more than 50% higher than the competitor average so clearly we’d identified the sweet spot when we established our position for only $300 an acre.
We are currently running 11 rigs in the fleet.
We are on track to complete the drilling Phase of acreage capture this year and we are transitioning to multi-well pad drilling for our more than 1900 remaining identified locations.
Now I would like to discuss our major projects on slide 17.
Our major projects remain on track to deliver about 400 000 boe per day of production by 217 as shown on the top left graph.
Our oil sands assets are performing as planned.
The combined oil sands properties averaged 100 000 BOE per day during the quarter up 14% year-over-year.
Currently we have seven major oil sands projects in execution and these projects are progressing on schedule.
Christina Lake Phase E started up in mid-July slightly ahead of schedule and we should ramp to about 20 000 BOE per day net from Christina E within six to nine months.
Our (inaudible) project is about 40% complete by the end of July and is on track to start up in the early 2015.
In Alaska our CD5 project is on track and we are progressing engineering work and additional satellite projects for sanction in 2014.
The passage of SB21 in Alaska we believe some of our Alaska projects and (inaudible) viable and we expect to invest more capital in Alaska over time.
In Asia-Pacific and Middle East segment our major projects are also on plan.
Performance from our pioneer growth project is running ahead of expectations.
We have 23 wells on line at the end of June versus 19 planned.
And these wells contributed about 7 000 BOE per day net and second quarter.
In Malaysia key load outs and less were achieved during the quarter.
The floating production system from Gumusut is now in place Siakap North-Petai project is on track and we expect production from both projects to begin ramping up at year-end.
At Curtis Island module installations continue to APLNG during the second quarter.
In June we raised the width of our first tank a big milestone for the project.
We're still on schedule for first LNG in 2015.
Activity at both the UK and the region sectors of the North Sea is very high.
At Ekofisk so we installed a new project topside facilities during the second quarter and the project is on track to achieve cost reduction by the end of 2013.
Also during the quarter we installed the jackets and bridges at Eldfisk II in preparation for first oil late next year.
At Jasmine key installations were completed in the second quarter and offshore hook-up and commissioning market is fully underway.
Cost reduction from Jasmine is expected early in the fourth quarter.
The graphic on the lower left shows the expected production start-ups during the third and fourth quarter of this year and as you can see the projects we have been talking about for a while are now coming to fruition and we have more projects scheduled to startup next year including Eldfisk II in the North Sea Kakap in Malaysia additional phases of the oil sands Britannia long-term compression and (inaudible) project in Indonesia.
So the delivery of new production from major projects will start later this year and continue through 2014 and beyond.
Next I want to briefly cover our exploration programs starting in slide 18.
Our exploration momentum continues on several fronts.
We are building inventory of both conventional and unconventional opportunities.
We are advancing several opportunities to the drill ready stage and we are currently drilling several operated and non-operated prospects.
There is a very high level of activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico program.
The lower (inaudible) is currently drilling.
We have 30% interest in this well.
During the quarter we acquired 20% working interest in the (inaudible)` prospect and the six plus heal at JOE.
This is a very large prospect that’s also currently drilling and should reach TV this quarter and we have additional 100% ConocoPhillips leases within the healer structure so this is an important well for us.
The Deep Nansen wildcat and Tiber appraisal wells are expected to spud this quarter and we have a 25% and 18% working interest in these wells respectively.
In the Browse Basin of Australia we are currently drilling the Proteus wildcat on an untested structure to the Southeast of the Poseidon discovery and we expect to reach TD soon.
We completed our sale of partial interest in the Browse and Canning Basin in June as well.
Recall this was part of a deal to gain access to potential shale opportunities in the Sichuan Basin in China.
In Europe we were awarded one operatorship and three partnership licenses in Norway’s 22 licensing round in the Bering sea and this represents attractive future conventional inventory in a legacy area for the company and we expect to start testing our acreage in the Bering’s in 2014.
In the Kwanza Basin in Angola we completed our 2013 3D seismic acquisition program in early April.
Also we recently acquired an additional 20% working interest in Block 36 bringing our equity to 50%.
We also have 30% interest in Block 37 and we’re still planning more to begin drilling early next year.
In addition we’ve completed a fireman to three offshore blocks in Senegal.
These blocks provide attractive acreage to test the West African (inaudible) play and drilling on these blocks will start next year too.
Globally we have activities under way in several unconventional plays.
We expect to be drilling in Poland and Colombia by year-end.
We also continue to drill on plays the Duvernay and Montney plays in Canada and we continue to test plays in the Permian and Niobrara in the Lower 48.
That was a pretty quick overview of our operations and exploration activity.
The key takeaways are less.
The operations are running well the development programs are delivering the startups of several growth projects are eminent and we’ve got level of exploration activity.
I’ll wrap up my comments on Slide 19 with a quick review of our 2013 production outlook.
As Ryan mentioned in his opening comments we are raising our production outlook for 2013.
This slide shows our actual 1Q and 2Q volumes and our forecast volumes for the rest of the year on both the continuing and discontinued operations basis.
The bottom line we are tightening our ranges in 3Q and 4Q and we are bringing up the midpoint of a full year range by about 20 000 BOE per day just over 1%.
As you can see we expect third quarter volumes to be lower than second quarter driven again by significant turnaround in maintenance activities in this case dominated by Alaska and the UK.
Fourth quarter volume should ramp up from there as our planned downtime (inaudible) and our major projects ramped up and we should see a strong exit rate going into 2014.
Now please come to Slide 20 for Ryan’s summary comments.
Thank you Matt.
Well we’re at the halfway mark for 2013 but more importantly we are in [the home stretch] of a multi-year effort to transform ConocoPhillips into a unique compelling independent E&amp;P company.
So let me also summarize the key takeaways from this call.
Operationally we are approaching a very significant inflection point for the company.
We have several important milestones to achieve in the next two quarters and we should see good momentum coming out of 2013.
We are building our inventory and delivering visible results from our conventional and unconventional exploration programs that will sustain our growth well into the future.
Importantly we expect to deliver our operational performance safely and efficiently.
Financially we’re committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet and that can provide our financial flexibility.
We’re seeing the early stages of cash margin improvement which should continue as our volumes grow and as always we’ll maintain our focus on improving returns.
Strategically we are delivering on our value proposition.
We expect to complete our announced asset divestitures in 2013 and this will provide the financial flexibility to fund our investment programs which we are on track to deliver volume and margin growth and our dividend remains a top priority.
The bottom line we’re committed to creating long-term value by delivering 3% to 5% growth in both production and margins with a compelling dividend.
So I hope Jeff Matt and myself have given you confidence that our plans are on track for delivering key milestones in 2013 and they will certainly position the company for very strong finish to the year and an exciting 2014.
So now with that let’s turn it back to the moderator and take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Faisel Khan.
Good afternoon.
Faisel with Citi.
Hi Faisel.
Hi Faisel.
Hi.
Just going to some of your comments on the transactions that you plan to close for the end of the year can you just give us an update on kind of when you expect precisely when those transactions will close in Nigeria and Algeria and Kashagan versus kind of what guys had expected when you announced those transactions earlier on.
Yeah thanks Faisel.
So when we set up our plants last year we were thinking towards the latter half of the year mid year for some of the transactions may be a little bit later.
It looks now to us that we will probably; we will complete all those transactions by the end of the year.
There are complex full country exits with respect to Algeria Nigeria and Kashagan so you can probably appreciate the complexity that's their.
But we are on track to finish those by the end of the year which is what we have said all along.
In terms of planning we were thinking maybe a few of them would be done by mid-year but they will stretch into a little bit into the third and fourth quarters.
Okay is that influencing at all the guidance the change in guidance at all and will continue and discontinue off spaces?  So on the capital that we have talked about it is impacting the discontinued operations.
About half of the capital that we have talked about $600 million roughly half $300 million of that is due to those extending the dispositions and but we’ll get that back through post closing adjustments on each one of the transactions.
Okay understood.
Just one last question for me.
In the Eagle Ford lot of sort of industry publications on talking about lower condensate pricing and sort of lower realizations because of kind of the its inability to kind of move all that condensate to market or the consumer to market.
Any issues can you talk elaborate a little bit more and how you're seeing the pricing of Eagle Ford crude versus some of the industry publications are talking about in terms of discounts and some of those lighter grades.
We don't sell our Eagle Ford crude as condensate type.
It is a black oil that we are selling so we are others maybe giving those sort of discounts we are not.
So just to add on that a little bit.
So back when there was more of a spread between WTI Brent and LLS our Eagle Ford oil tended to price between WTI and LLS as that as compressed it’s trading more towards the WTI type number but still as Matt saying a full oil price for that product.
I got it thanks guys I appreciate the time.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Yes hi.
Hi John.
Three quick ones Ryan you mentioned rebalancing your oil sands exposure should we expect this to happen over the next few years or are you going to monetize try to swap or what are you going to do? Yeah thanks John.
Well we’ve got a very large position.
We’ve got 100% acreage we’ve got joint ventures it’s Surmont with FCCL.
We are looking at a number of different ways to rebalance that portfolio.
I wouldn’t get specific on any one way we are trying to do what’s best for our shareholders what’s best for our company.
We want to maintain some exposure to the oil sands but rebalance what we do have.
I would say over the next this year you want to see some efforts along those lines but that will continue probably well into next year as well.
Okay thanks.
With respect to the Bakken and Eagle Ford Matt are you comfortable with the degree of activity or should we expect further acceleration in terms of your exploitation efforts? John we are quite comfortable with the strategy that we have just now which is a 11 rigs running in both the Bakken and the Eagle Ford and we are running that in a pretty efficient way just now we are well laying out to do that that we are continuing to learn from pilot tests for example in the Eagle Ford and we are at keeping pace with the infrastructure development so I think we are going to keep on that sort of pace for sometime to come yet.
Okay.
Last one from me in terms of virgin new players or newer players Permian and Niobrara should we expect to see acceleration there in activity.
Well we have actually increased our activity this year.
We’ll get three rigs running in the Permian just now testing of that place in the Delaware basin and in the Midland basin and we’re getting encouraging results there but one rig running in the Niobrara just now and we’re continuing to could test that fully across about pretty expensive acreage that we have so we’re pretty active in both the Niobrara and in the Permian.
Thanks I was just wondering if that could be incremental towards what that’s all.
Thanks.
Thanks John.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott Hanold from RBC.
Thanks good afternoon.
Good afternoon Scott.
In the Eagle Ford it sounds like you said you’d tied-in 65 wells that you’ve drilled in the quarter and then you had some backlog you put online.
How many wells do you get online during the quarter and you had a pretty nice production bump.
Was there any infrastructure that was added once we began the quarter that also added the increase? So it was 65 in total that we put on in the quarter but plenty of those were from the backlog and the backlog reduction.
Okay.
Where did your backlog right now… It’s about 85.
85 would you as running 11 rig what is sort of a normal backlog you’d expect to carry and is there anymore opportunity to trim off that in the coming quarters? Yeah we’re going to adjust that backlog as we work through the year there is always our backlog almost by definition takes time to come by the end of the year we’ll probably have 50 or 60 wells they are drilled but not tied-in.
Okay got it.
And then your 1 900 locations that you have talked about drilling at in the Eagle Ford remind me what is the space that you assume there any thoughts on where that can go? That assumes 80 acre spacing and we have pilot test running testing of (inaudible) business down to 40 acres but we don’t have a conclusive result yet as to what the optimum spacing might be so those 1900 continues to be based on 80 acre spacing.
Okay.
How long will it when should we hear about the more conclusive result that day and do you think is that more 2014? That’s more a 2014 really before we I mean the information continues to come in before we would draw any definitive conclusions is probably something next year.
Okay.
Any early thoughts that it is pretty encouraging so far? It really is too early to see.
I don’t see it is increasing the spacing permit but we continue to look to see if there is value optimization and reducing that space.
Okay.
And then one of the things on the oil sand plays you talked about rebalancing that can you remind me so within your guidance for 2013 is there any effective just sort of rebalancing effort for the oil sands yet? No there is not Scott.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Yeah.
I guess continuing on the same just around the shale portfolio I mean it feels like obviously the Eagle Ford has been great for some of the companies who have been now including yourselves do you sort of feel that your sort of shale production and particularly in the liquids all sort of slowed a little bit in 2014 and then reaccelerate as you add activity to these other plays I mean maybe give us some color about how you see the evolution of that?  We expect to see production to continue to grow in the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Permian over the next few years.
The Permian from an unconventional perspective and we’ve seen a lot of potential there.
We are seeing probably at least two producing wells in the Avalon two or three in the Wolfcamp.
So we continue to be encouraged by the unconventionals in the Permian.
And so time will tell how much that contributes to growth in the long-term but we do expect to see growth in the Eagle Ford the Permian and the Bakken for several years to come frankly.
And then a question for Jeff diving into the weeds on the cash flow statement two line items.
This will be fun.
Two line items that are difficult for us to forecast one is deferred taxes and then there is the catch you have which is other.
Obviously as we focus on cash margins at the E&amp;P level obviously it has to translate into cash flow for the group.
So on deferred taxes is that predominantly U.S.
or is there some international component in the 2013 numbers so far?  Yes there is.
A big part of it’s U.S.
but also Norway and the UK are pretty substantial contributors to this as well.
If you think about the tax what deferred tax is it’s just where you’re able to take more rapid tax depreciation and financial depreciation and UK and Norway both have fairly accelerated tax depreciation.
Of course the U.S.
has some IDC benefit as well.
And then on the other line which is sort of a $500 million swing first quarter to second quarter can you just talk what is in the other line [next]?  That is a difficult one because there are a lot of things that go into the other line.
Maybe just a little bit of kind of if you think about how to think about all the things that go into the cash flow statement for us overall.
When we talk about cash margins we took a very simplified approach and just have net income plus DD&amp;A and talk about that as our cash margin.
But for us going forward deferred tax is probably a pretty substantial positive for us this year and probably us this year and probably on into next year.
A lot of the other items on the cash flow statement are going to generally offset each other.
You will see that cash flow from operations other line it’s going to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter probably for the year that’s probably couple of hundred million dollar negative typically.
In particular though if you looked at the first quarter of this year and the fourth quarter of last year those are unusually negative numbers and those were both results of some special items which had positive effects to income but with non-cash impacts where the offset to that is in the cash flow from other lines.
So I would say the fourth quarter and first quarter were pretty [unanimous] numbers for that line item and you should think about line items being more of a kind of few hundred million dollar negative for most years.
Thanks very helpful.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Inc.</strong> Hey guys.
Hi Paul.
Hi Paul.
Inc.</strong> Hi Matt in Eagle Ford you are saying that you are going to move into the pad drilling.
How many rig is actually ready in the pad tubing at this point? We have got four or five there are currently pad drilling in the Eagle Ford.
Inc.</strong> And so as we move I presume that by mid of next year that second quarter or so you are going to be 100% in pad tubing and at that point what is your best guess in terms of your unit cost will change 10% to 15% of the improvement or do you think that you may be able to drive better than that? Well time will tell.
We know that we are seeing improved efficiencies in the pad drilling with a fewer rig moves and all the other benefits that come from pad drilling but I think it’s too early Paul to put a number out there just probably – we know we will see efficiencies I wouldn’t put a number on it just now.
Inc.</strong> And I am not sure that maybe I missed it I have to apologize if that’s the case that you guys have to like coming now with maybe of the longer term production or we saw target for Eagle Ford and Bakken let’s say by 2017 how much do you think that those two area will be able to produce that? We haven’t come out with any updated view of that yet.
But we have got it in the Analyst Meeting material both for Bakken and actually for all the Lower 48 plays in the Analyst Meeting material.
That we put out last year so Paul… February.
Inc.</strong> So any kind of update? No we are really kind of working through that process now.
The great part of that getting to the position now where we got the Eagle Ford acreage primarily held by production is we got a lot of flexibility to step back and ask ourselves what is the optimal rate to develop that field and wet got a lot of work going on to do that right now.
Inc.</strong>  Right.
And Jeff along that line I mean that paying up very lousy picture in terms of all the opportunity.
So some of the Cap expense on are you guys still looking at around in the $16 billion year over the next several year or that is also start to material see some adjustment?  No Paul we’re targeting that $16 billion annual number.
So we see some changes in the mix as we go forward over the next five years.
We’ve got some major projects that start ramping down and we see some opportunities in our base plans as Alan described to ramp up some of the unconventional North American stuff.
But no we still think $16 billion is the right number to use.
Inc.</strong> Ryan since that you guys are sort of up this year for reduction target a bit how about next year? Is there any change? No.
Not at this point.
Inc.</strong> Not at this point.
And then finally Matt in Eagle Ford I’m wondering you’re not going to rig in Bakken you’re also wondering – you’re not going to rig – but it does look like that you have a stronger position in the Eagle Ford.
Is there any reason that why we’re running that similar amount of rig I presume that the CapEx I’m not sure that if you (inaudible) 11 rig that the CapEx program under two base and at this point are dramatically different for this year.
Is there any particular reason why you haven’t shift more of your effort into the Eagle Ford? We’re managing the pace of activity to make sure that we don’t go ahead of infrastructure to make sure that we’re able to run safely and efficiently and the reason you don’t see so much production appearing in the Bakken from the 11 rigs outrun we don’t look probably as we’re talking interest in the book and there is 50% or less and if it was in Eagle Ford this in high 80% to 90%.
So that’s why you’re not seeing the same in the bottom line and then the underlying rates from the Eagle Ford and Bakken as well but it’s really try and make sure that we are managing and running an efficient safe program with these rates.
Inc.</strong> So we should assume that the 11 rig for each base this year to stay for the next one or two years?  Yeah certainly their intention is to stay around that level for the next year or so.
Yeah and we’ll learn as we go.
We’ll learn from our pilot tests and we may adjust that but right now yes it’s for modeling purposes that’s what I would assume.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate you taking my questions.
Hi guys I got a couple of quick ones please.
So you have mentioned that you might consider having move to Alaska in terms of perhaps incremental investment.
You both have got interest in what is a growing suite of exploration success and in terms of long-term capital planning.
How should we think about balancing those two items.
Does the CapEx go up to accommodate these incremental projects or does it get reallocated away from different areas.
If could you kind help us with that and I’ve got a follow-up please? The $16 billion number includes assumptions of both major capital programs that will come for example from an exploration program and any increase that we see in Alaska is also included in opportunities that we are modeling within the $16 billion overall program.
And so you shouldn’t see an increase from the $16 billion to accommodate those?  Okay now those major capital projects have they also included in your production outlook?  Yes they are yeah.
Well production outlook.
Yes they are yeah.
Well just to be clear that’s not in – when we talked about our production outlook for 2016 and 2017 at the Analyst Presentation we don’t have anything for the Gulf of Mexico discoveries in that production outlook but we’d have some assumptions that as we get towards the end of that period we are going to start spending capital there and you will see that production probably show up outside of the time period we talked about where we’ve kind of talked about the production guidance.
So there is no capital guidance? So the capital going into those projects in the Gulf of Mexico for example with no production in Alaska we were not assuming in our plans last year that we will see incremental production in Alaska; that incremental production will be tied to activity associated with SB-21 but we do have the capital flexibility to accommodate.
My follow up Matt is maybe just on some of the well results you have recently on both the Bakken and the Eagle Ford.
We are monitoring this doc and that looks like just in the last couple of months you have some pretty stellar well results.
I am just wondering if you can confirm you’re seeing that in your production trends and if you can maybe help us understand if something is changed are you drilling that particular area are you changing well design what’s going on in there now? Thank you.
Yeah we’re continuing to vote for example a fact design in places like Eagle Ford the number of stages that we pump the volume of [propane] that we pump and we are doing that as learn from our pilot pits and what we are learning is that the more stages and more profit makes a difference.
So going forward we’re going to be continuing to optimize that.
So you’re seeing your 2013 vintage wells delivering better than let’s say 2012 Panyu growth wells? Yeah on an average that was going on here.
Okay great.
I’ll leave it there.
Thanks.
Thanks Doug  Thanks Doug Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank Inc.</strong>  Hi good afternoon guys.
Just clarify on the disposal program.
I think you said you expected this to complete by 2013.
I think you’re referring Nigeria and Algeria.
Could you just repeat? Excuse me if I missed it what you said about Canada as well.
I know that things changed there a bit versus your expectations.
I wanted to just understand how you’re thinking about that going forward.
Thanks.
Yeah thank you Paul.
In terms of Canada we’re continuing to look at the opportunities we may see a little bit before the end of the year but most of what we’re trying to do in Canada will stretch well into 2014.
I’ll be referring to cash again.
You’ve probably seen the news.
We were notified in early July by the Kazakhstan Government that they’ve elected to preempt on the arrangement that we had with OVM and we’re in conversations and discussions right now with the amount of Purchase/Sale Agreement and those are going quite well.
So that’s progressing along.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I guess my understanding was that kind of in the likely order of events that would be first Algeria then Kazakhstan and Nigeria was difficult to that I can guess.
In terms of it sounds like great – seem that’s fairly straightforward now they pay the same price that was [of the ONGC].
Yes that’s correct.
Inc.</strong> Right.
So that should go pretty quickly.
And then obviously the other two I guess that you’re finding that these [devils] are highly accretive to you right? Yes you’re absolutely right.
Inc.</strong> So would be logical to consider further disposals for next year to continue the accretion?  Well I think as I try to explain I think when we get down with the three that we have described here today we have got some rebalancing we want to do in the old sense that we talked about and then I think it’s healthy and prudent to continue to improving the portfolio on the low end.
So there is some modest level of divestitures that we see out overtime in the portfolio in $1 billion to $2 billion range or something like that but we don’t have any large ones that we have talked about other than looking at trying to rebalance in our oilsands position.
Inc.</strong> Yeah I understand.
And then obviously with 3% to 5% double target that you have got I think Paul Cheng highlighted it’s basically unchanged by today’s better outlook for this year’s volumes? Yeah no we are sticking to the 3% to 5%.
Again we pin that back when we came out year and a half ago.
So you do the math and do different numbers depending on when you pick your starting point and ending point but I am anchored back to when we came out as an independent company in May of last year and that’s our commitment over the next four to five years as you will see that kind of growth in both volume and margins for the company.
Inc.</strong>  And just as completely reiterate what speaks up before you’re basically saying that at that point you would be covering the dividend and the CapEx annually based on I think of $110 right by 2017? Well it’s prior little bit lower oil price we don’t assume $110 or we’re buying more or like $90 to $100 kinds of prices in the middle of $3 Henry Hub prices.
And yeah we start fully covering our CapEx and dividend in the next couple of years but that deficit start shrinking pretty quickly over the next couple of years so it’s very manageable with the proceeds that we estimate will have by the end of this year the cash will have on the balance sheet that’s the plan and we can cover it very easily at that point.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
I understand that.
Sorry again I apologize if I missed this.
Was there a specific update on the progress in Australia and where your projects down relative to the other two major projects going on down there? The APLNG is in good shape.
The project just now is about 45% complete and we are making good progress.
We are still on track for starting up in 2015.
Inc.</strong> And there was a cost review I believe which came through with Needham.
And we reviewed that to the analysts the results of that to the analyst earlier in the year and there is no change from what we described then.
Other than seeing some fairly significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus the Australian Dollar which is probably mitigated some of the cost increases we thought we were seeing on in U.S.
dollar terms.
Yeah I think what we had said is like 7% increase in the underlying cost and the spent currency and that was looking like a 20% increase in U.S.
dollars depending on how the FX goes and may not the 20% increase in the U.S.
dollar basis? Inc.</strong> Great thanks guys.
That’s helpful thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
And the final question we have time for is from Kate Minyard of JPMorgan.
Hi good afternoon thanks for taking my questions.
Hi Kate.
Hi Kate.
Hi just a quick question for Jeff thanks for providing the color on slide 7 and 8 can you talk about the cash margin improvement that might be stemming from a difference in cash taxes between 2012 and 2013 just as you’ve changed some of the geographic distribution of production.
Is there any impact there that you can help us extract? In kind of the question was the deferred taxes a part of that is that? Why it is different? Why just different cash tax rates between the regimes exactly? Yeah so really the benefit comes from just pretty much the cash margin benefit comes from where we’ve added production.
And we’ve added production primarily in Canada in the Lower 48 and in Asia and those are all tax rates which are less than our current average tax rate.
When we do this cash margin calculation we do a simple calculation so we can have some comparability to other companies.
So we just take net income plus DD&amp;A and call that our cash margin so deferred taxes don’t come into but we talked about when we talk about cash margins.
Okay.
And as I mentioned as you’re thinking about cash flow model and things like that you should think of deferred tax as being like you’ve seen in the first couple of quarters of this year that kind of it’s going to continue on because of it where we are spending our capital dollars.
Okay.
All right thanks.
And then maybe just another question on Alaska as you guys look at evaluating additional investment opportunity you specifically talk about the evaluation in light of SB21.
How are you taking into account potential marketability of the crudes as well and what specific type of crude are you with your investments be targeting? Is it light or is it heavy and how does marketability play a factor? I mean the opportunities that we are looking at predominantly light oil opportunities with production similar to EPI to what we have just now.
We also see opportunities in the heavy oil in Alaska but that would be a bit further out and before we would see a significant increase in that.
Okay.
And no long-term concerns around marketability?  No no.
Okay.
All right great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Kate.
Thanks Kate.
Why don’t we go ahead and wrap it up here we’re little passed the hour and again we really appreciate everybody’s time and attention on such a busy day.
We will have a replay of this call on our website shortly and of course you’re always welcome to call anyone on the investor relations team for further color.
Thanks so much have a great afternoon.
Sheri? Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Q3 2013 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis the Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may being.
Thanks Christine.
Thanks to all of our participants and a big welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Joining me today in the room are Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and Chief Financial Officer and Matt Fox our EVP of Exploration and Production.
We will begin our prepared remarks in a moment.
But I wanted to make sure that all of you saw the announcements this morning that we completed the sale of our Kashagan business for about $5.4 billion.
Just a quick mechanical point we sent the earnings release and the Kashagan releases separately that was because we had to queue up the earnings release last night and weren’t entirely certain about the timing of the Kashagan close.
So apologizes there for a little bit of possible confusion; but this is obviously a huge milestone for the business and wanted to get the news out to the marketplace this morning.
Also wanted to make sure that all of who saw in our release this morning that we expect to announce our 2014 capital and production budget in early December and then in 2014 we will be hosting our Analyst Meeting on the 10th of April in New York obviously details to follow.
If you’ll turn to page two you’ll note our Safe Harbor statement and that describes the risks and uncertainties and our future performance these are also described in our periodic filings with the SEC.
With those details out of the way I am going to turn the call over to Jeff.
Jeff? Thanks Ellen.
Hello everyone.
And thank you for joining us today.
I am going to jump right into material beginning on the slide three this slide shows some of the key highlights for the quarter.
Once again the theme of today’s call is pretty simple we are successfully executing on our business plan.
Operationally we delivered our expected volumes.
We produced 1.514 million BOE per day which is in line with guidance despite the curtailment of Libyan production for most of the quarter.
From continuing operations we produced 1.47 million BOE per day.
Without the disruptions in Libya we would exceeded the high end of our production guidance.
As we’ve stated for quite some time we expected this quarter to be the low point of volumes and we are positioned to grow from here.
The third quarter was an active period of seasonal planned maintenance.
We executed this key turnarounds on schedule and most of that work is complete for the year.
Our major growth projects are progressing Christina Lake Phase E and Ekofisk South are now producing and others are nearing first oil.
We have several near-term milestones that Matt will discuss in a minute so operationally we executed our plan.
Moving to the financial results reported earnings were $2.5 billion or $2 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings were $1.8 billion or $1.47 per share.
This is 7% increase year-over-year.
We were also up 4% sequentially despite this being the low point for volumes.
And excluding working capital we generated $3.8 billion in cash from continuing operations and we ended the quarter with $3.9 billion in cash.
Cash margins grew 13% compared to last year’s third quarter reflecting the impact of higher prices production mix and location.
Normalized for changes in prices cash margins grew 3% year-over-year.
This is an important part of growing cash flows to internally fund our investment programs and dividends over time.
In the quarter we continued to prune our portfolio and closed on two non-strategic asset sales our Clyden undeveloped oil sands leasehold in Canada and our interest in the Phoenix Park midstream asset in Trinidad and Tobago.
And as Ellen mentioned at the start of the call importantly we achieved a big milestone earlier today with the closing and receipt of funds for the $5.4 billion Kashagan transaction.
And we continue to make progress on closing our other announced assets sales.
We are continuing to add to and test our conventional and unconventional exploration inventory globally and these programs are running at a high level of activity.
Finally we are committed to returning capital to our shareholders.
In early July we increased our dividend by 4.5% and we remain committed to increasing the dividend overtime.
In summary we delivered our plan for the quarter.
We achieve the operational performance we expected and generated the strong financial results.
We are positioned for an exciting phase of growth and margin expansion which is the essence of our strategic plan.
So please turn to slide four and we’ll cover the financial review for the quarter.
Again this quarter’s adjusted earnings were 1.8 billion or $1.47 per share and this was slightly above consensus.
The 7% year-over-year increase in adjusted earnings was primarily driven by higher margins.
The higher margins reflect strong liquids pricing in the quarter and a continued shift to higher value liquids in the portfolio.
Average realizations were up 6% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
Production from continuing operations was in line with expectations but down sequentially and flat compared to the third quarter of 2012 largely reflecting the curtailments in Libya.
We have shown a table of segment earnings for the quarter in the lower right corner of the slide our usual segment charts can be found in the appendix of this deck and we don’t plan to review these on the call but wanted to make a few key points there.
Alaska income was down sequentially due to planned maintenance but in line with our expectations.
Lower 48 adjusted earnings were up sequentially reflecting strong liquids prices and the mix shift.
Canada generated significantly higher adjusted earnings sequentially as well.
Although natural gas prices were weaker than last quarter bitumen prices were particularly strong reflecting higher WTI prices favorable diluent prices lower crude differentials and lower seasonal blending requirements sort of a perfect set of conditions for the oil sands.
At this point we would not expect fourth quarter realizations for bitumen to be as strong.
Europe and the Asia Pacific and Middle East segments were also in line with expectations.
Our Corporate segment adjusted losses were about $40 million higher than in the second quarter of 2013 due to the absence of licensing revenues in the third quarter.
This was about the same level we would expect for the fourth quarter as well.
So there is no change to our full year guidance of $750 million for this segment.
Next I’ll step through our production performance for the quarter on Slide 5.
Total company production in the second quarter was 1.514 million BOE per day and this includes 44 000 BOE per day from discontinued operations.
This chart shows continuing operations compared to the third quarter of 2012; and in the third quarter 2012 production from continuing operations was 1.47 million BOE per day.
Adjusting for dispositions of 12 000 BOE per day normalized production from continuing operations was 1.548 million in last year’s third quarter and that’s the middle blue bar in the chart.
And I’ll talk about growth from there.
The Libya downtime accounted for 28 000 barrels per day reduction compared to last year’s third quarter but that was partially offset by lower downtime in the rest of our operations around 11 000 per day in this year’s third quarter.
The key is the next two bars.
You can see that growth of 215 000 barrels per day more than offset declines of 186 000 barrels per day this represents net organic growth of 29 000 per day or about 2% adjusted for dispositions and downtime.
The majority of the growth came from our development projects in the Lower 48 shale plays growth in our oil sands asset from China.
And as I mentioned before this should be the low point on continuing operations volume that we’ve been predicting for a while and we are now positioned for an upward trend.
If you turn to Slide 6 I’ll make a few comments about the improving margin trend we also have underway.
This slide shows how our third quarter growth and changing mix drove cash margin improvement compared to last year’s third quarter.
The chart shows the change in this quarter’s volumes by region and product compared to last year’s third quarter.
The growth shown in green is all from liquids.
In addition it’s coming in areas with more favorable fiscal terms in the company average notably the Lower 48 Canada and the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East segments.
Normal field declines in Alaska and Europe and lower natural gas North American natural gas production somewhat offset the growth.
Slide 7 shows the impact of our growth mix shift and fiscals on our margin performance.
This slide shows sequential and year-over-year cash margins both on a reported basis and on price normalized basis.
Compared to last year’s third quarter cash margins grew 13% sequentially cash margins grew 6% and realized prices improved compared to both periods but that’s not the whole story.
On the right side of the page using our public sensitivity as we price normalized margins with last year’s third quarter as the base line as you can see cash margins improved 3% on a price normalized basis compared to last year.
This metric will tend to be volatile on a quarter-by-quarter basis but we expect the trend to continue to improve as we shift production towards higher value products and places with more favorable fiscal terms.
And we will continue to track and report this metric.
I’ll wrap up my comments with our cash flow waterfall and quarter financial position on slide eight.
I am going to talk you through our cash flow and this does not include the proceeds from Kashagan which we announced this morning and virtually our fourth quarter item.
Through the third quarter of 2013 we generated $11.8 billion of cash from continuing operations and our working capital was about $100 million source of cash.
Through the end of September we’ve generated $3.2 billion in asset sales proceeds from the sale of Cedar Creek Anticline asset the Clyden asset the Phoenix Park and some smaller asset packages.
If you include Kashagan and this increases to $8.6 billion.
So far this year we’ve funded $11.9 billion capital program for continuing operations and paid out $2.5 billion in dividends.
Debt and other which includes the capital associated with discontinued operations accounts for $1.2 billion use of cash in 2013.
So we had $3.9 billion of cash on hand as of September 30 essentially flat to where we started the year.
Our balance sheet and financial situation are very strong and just got stronger today with the closing and receipt of the proceeds from the Kashagan disposition.
We are in a great position to execute our investment programs and deliver value through a combination of organic growth improving margins and a compelling dividend.
That concludes the review of the financial overview and now I’m going to turn the call over to Matt for an update on our operations which begins on Slide 9.
Thank you Jeff.
As Jeff mentioned the main theme of this quarter’s operational performance has been on plan in fact that’s been the theme over the past several quarters.
I’m going to cover the operations material by our capital categories.
As a reminder those are high qualify based assets our lower risk development drilling programs our major projects and our exploration program.
So I’ll begin with a quick review of our base asset performance.
Most importantly this quarter’s major turnaround and tie-in activity went according to plan.
And this essentially completes the majority of a major turnaround activity for this year.
I’ll run through a few of these key activities quickly.
Alaska experienced high seasonal turnaround activity at Kuparuk and Prudhoe and the Lower 48 we had planned downtime of the Lost Cabin Gas Plant.
In the UK the Britannia Area and Southern North Sea turnarounds were completed and planned maintenance was also recently completed at the Foster Creek in the oil sands.
The shutdown activity that began in Norway’s Greater Ekofisk complex in June was completed early in the third quarter and included the brownfield work necessary for the new Ekofisk South and Eldfisk II projects.
As the chart on the lower left shows most of our planned turnaround activity is complete for the year.
Fourth quarter turnarounds are nearing completion at Clear and Qatargas 3.
The restart of the assets after the recent turnaround should deliver strong volume momentum in the fourth quarter.
So will the expected production startup in the East Irish Sea following about a year long shutdown there to replace the asset gas plant.
So you can see our base assets performed well.
Now let’s move on to our development programs on Slide 10.
These development programs consist of lower risk drilling led activities around the world that mitigate our base decline and generate higher margins and attractive returns and these programs remain on track to deliver about 600 000 BOE per day of production by 2017 as shown on the top left graphic.
In the Kuparuk Field in Alaska our core chipping drilling sidetracks continued in the third quarter.
Since changes are made to Alaska’s fiscal with the more Alaska production act we added a rig in Kuparuk at the end of May.
We are planning to add another rig for development drilling at Kuparuk in January and we continue to work with partners and improve to identify additional opportunities to increase activity there.
A big milestone for the quarter was reaching 500 000 BOE per day in the Lower 48.
Of course this is largely due to performance from the unconventionals in the Eagle Ford’s and the Bakken but continuing good performance from the Permian conventional program.
A couple of highlights from these place Bakken production averaged 334 000 BOE per day in the year’s third quarter up 31% compared to the same quarter last year and up 13% sequentially.
Our focus during the third quarter was in the time from drilling a layout to bringing in on production.
This continues to be a focus and will become even more important as we shift the pad drilling.
At the end of the third quarter we had 11 operated rigs running in the Bakken nine of which were pad drilling.
The Eagle Ford also continued to deliver strong performance.
Third quarter production averaged to 126 000 BOE per day up 66% compared to the third quarter of last year.
Sequentially the Eagle Ford grew 4% a bit lower than the first half of 2013’s growth because this quarter was impacted by the commissioning of further stages of the Helena and Sugarloaf stabilization facilities and maintenance of third-party facilities to increase meter sizes resulting in a slight increase in downtime versus the second quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we had a backlog of 77 wells waiting on facilities on various stages of completion.
This represents a 38% reduction in our inventory compared to year end 2012.
So we are gaining on the backlog.
The Eagle Ford exited the third quarter over a 130 000 BOE a day.
And for the fourth quarter we will continue to run 11 rigs in the play and expect to bring on between 50 and 60 operated wells.
As we head into 2014 we are in full transition to multi-well pad drilling are more than 1 800 remaining identified well locations assuming in 80-acre well spacing.
Right now six out of the 11 rigs running in the Eagle Ford are pad drilling.
And we expect to see more variability in the quarterly production levels as we move to pad drilling but we anticipate continued growth in this asset next year.
In Western Canada we continue to see good results from margin enhancing drilling programs in the liquid-rich plays here our development drilling activity continues to focus on the Glauconite Montney Lower Cretaceous and Tri Asset place.
Activity levels are expected to ramp up in the fourth quarter as we prepare for and execute our winter drilling program.
Finally our legacy field development programs are also on track through all of our operating areas.
Now let’s discuss our major projects on slide 11 we were approaching some very important milestones.
Our projects that are very high levels of activity and remain on track to deliver about 400 000 BOE per day of production by 2017 as shown on the top left graph.
Virtually all business segments are contributing to our growth from major projects.
In Alaska our CD5 project construction is progressing on schedule and preparations are underway for the winter construction season when the ice roads are in place.
We continue to pursue engineering work and additional satellite projects for sanctioning in 2014.
For example work is underway at Shark Tooth and Greater Moose’s Tooth 1.
We will make a decision on these projects late next year.
You also probably saw a recent announcement about the site selection for a possible Alaskan LNG project which we now refer to as AKLNG.
Along with our co-venturers we are performing studies now to determine the feasibility of that project.
Our oil sands project are performing as planned the combined oil sands project averaged a 107 000 BOE per day during the quarter up 16% year-over-year.
Christina Lake Phase E started up in mid-July and this should add about 20 000 BOE net over the next several months.
At our operative Surmont 2 project we remain on plan for first team in the first half of 2015.
You may have seen the announcement that we achieved first oil at Ekofisk South last week a couple of months ahead of schedule.
This is an exciting milestone for the company.
Over the next few years we’ll ramp up volumes as we drill 35 producing wells and eight injection wells.
And by early 2015 we’ll also start first production at Eldfisk 2 so we are positioning ourselves to achieve significant growth in Norway and extend field life for decades to come.
Adjustment in the UK we’re in the final stages of our commissioning and start our preparations before initiating first oil offshore rooftop is progressing as planned and four wells have been perforated under ready for first production.
Jasmine has started of later in this quarter which would provide good exit rate momentum going into 2014.
At Curtis Island we continue to progress our APLNG project 311 is still on schedule for first LNG by mid-215 and critical milestones have been achieved on the project.
We’ve got lot going on in Malaysia we’re close to achieving major projects stackups and two non-operated projects Gumusut and Siakap North-Petai.
Gumusut offshore commissioning continues the 10 and final rise that was installed in early September and flow line installations are complete they operate rest of them is the full fuel starts-up will be in early Q1 2014.
The Siakap North-Petai development is continuing hookup from pre-commissioning.
Umbilical installations are complete and Flowline installation is underway and they operate rest of them is to start Umbilical right at the end of this year.
Malaysia the Kapampangan development is also progressing top side fabrication is running ahead of schedule and drilling commenced in August.
The overall project remains on track for first production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
So you can tell what are very exciting is critical time in many of our major products and they will be a key driver in our volume growth over the next few years.
So now I want to briefly recover our exploration program on slide 12.
Our exploration efforts continue on several fronts we are building an inventory of both conventional and unconventional opportunities.
We are drilling several non-operative prospects currently and we are advancing our operating prospects to the drill-ready stage.
We currently have three conventional prospects drilling in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico program.
We have an interest in the Gila and Deep Nansen wildcat prospects.
In addition we have interest in the Tiber appraisal well.
So we are participating in some big important lower tertiary wells.
We are also currently progressing our plans for our operating drilling program in the Gulf for 2014.
And the Browse Basin of Australia we have drilled a Proteus-1 discovery during the recent quarter.
This was an untested structure to the Southeast of the Poseidon discovery.
In Indonesia we obtained government approval for the Palangkaraya farm-in agreement onshore Kalimantan.
This creates the way to begin drilling next year.
In Malaysia we completed our seismic activity in block SB-311.
In the Kwanza Basin in Angola we completed our 3D seismic program earlier in the year.
We identified and ranked several prospects and expect to be drilling nearby mid next year.
And we’re just discussing several unconventional plays especially in North America.
In the Permian Basin we’re testing prospective zones across our leaseholds in the Delaware and Midland basins.
In the Niobrara we currently have one rig in the field executing an appraisal program.
It’s too early to discuss results in the Permian and Niobrara but we’re encouraged by the preliminary results.
In Canada we continue to drill and appraise that differently in Montney plays and we’re also gearing up for our second season of winter drilling in the Mackenzie Valley Canal play.
It sounds a pretty quick overview of our operations in exploration activity and the key takeaways of these the operations are running well.
The development programs are delivering.
Stocked up of several growth projects are underway or eminent and we’ve got high level of exploration activity.
If you turn to Slide 13 I’ll quickly cover all this all adds up to our production outlook for this year.
The table in the bottom of the slide provides actual volumes for the first three quarters of the year and our expected range for the fourth quarter.
The data is provided for both continuing and discontinued operations.
Our overall volume guidance for the year is unchanged except in the fourth quarter we’re now removing 50 000 BOE from Libya as a result of the ongoing disruptions there.
What’s important to know is that the fourth volumes are expected to ramp up from the third quarter due to lower turnaround activity ramp up in our unconventional programs and the major projects startups.
The range in fourth quarter volumes reflects statistical variability in major projects startup timing.
We’ll announce our 2014 production target with a capital release in December.
In the meantime we’re positioned to deliver such strong activity in 2013 and now provide strong momentum towards achieving our organic growth goals next year.
Now please turn to Slide 14 for our summary comments.
Operationally we’ve arrived at very important inflection point for the Company.
We have several key milestones to achieve this quarter and we should have volume growth momentum out of 2013.
So in 2014 you should expect to see increased production from our major projects at Ekofisk South Jasmine Britannia long-term compression Gumusut Siakap North-Petai Kebabangan Christina Lake Phase E Foster Creek Phase F and Lower 48 unconventional programs at Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian.
All these projects have contributed to 3% to 5% production growth as we detailed in our analyst meeting earlier in the year.
And as always we expect to deliver our operational performance safely and efficiently.
We’re committing to maintaining a strong balance sheet that can provide financial flexibility.
We’re seeing the early stages of cash margin expansion which should improve as our volumes grow.
We’re focused on improving the tons and that’s a driver behind continuing to rebalance our portfolio and allocate capital prudently.
We’re delivering on our value proposition.
We continue to progress on our earnings asset divestitures and this will provide a financial flexibilities to fund our investment programs and our dividend which remains a top priority; so I hope Jeff and I have given you confidence that our plans are on track for delivering key milestones this year and positioning ConocoPhillips for an exciting 2014.
And now we’re pleased to take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon and congrats on the delivery so far this year against your plan.
Thank you.
I guess in the slides Jeff you’ve outlined $6 billion of incremental cash flow from the production growth between sort of 2013 and 2017 in a flat macro type which is going to obviously increase your financial flexibility of the top line.
But I’ve got a question on CapEx you’re still investing in – and you’re still investing in some LNG.
Is there a year as you look out in the sort of the CapEx profile where as you sort of finalize some of those longer lived assets you got a bit more flexibility in terms of how you could allocate sort of CapEx in the Upstream business? Yeah that’s certainly going to be the case Ed and really we’ll detail this more in December like we indicated on our early in the call as far as 2014 capital will be.
But the effect we’re pointing out is probably going to be fairly pronounced in 2014 where APLNG capital will hit a peak Surmont 2 capital will hit a peak and we will be continuing to fund the expansions in the new oil sands of Foster Creek and Christina Lake.
And as we go through time will see some of those projects tail off and which will give us more flexibility to handle increase flows stemmed from the unconventionals? Great.
And then in terms of obviously the longer we go through time and with Kashagan receipts in and the balance sheet looking a little bit more robust and clearly oil price hasn’t collapsed in anyway; I mean what are your thoughts about maybe re-instituting a buyback program?  Right.
So at the end of this year assuming we continue to progress the rest of our asset sales program.
We’re going to have significant cash balances.
At the end of the year we could be approaching nearly $10 billion – in that neighborhood of $10 billion of cash in our balance sheet.
As we think through 2014 and 2015 we’re going to be increasing our cash flow but still at the point where cash from operations is not going to completely cover capital and dividends.
In terms of a buyback I think that is something we’re going to be thinking more about as we get to the point where cash from operations funds capital and dividends on a go forward basis.
Near-term I think we feel like it is important to maintain a significant level of financial flexibility to adequately invest in our capital program and fund our dividend.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks so much Jeff.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on your results everybody.
Thanks Doug.
U.S.
production growth has obviously been a major success story for the company and I think out by another 40% this quarter from Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian yet it seems like the potential from the Eagle Ford continues to improve as more as known about the Company’s position.
So my first question is whether Matt would agree and second whether there will be any additional color on the position in Eagle Ford related activity efficiency or financial performance that is stronger versus the original expectations what has really changed here because it seems like you are much more enthusiastic on this position? Yeah Doug.
We are still very excited and I would say getting more excited about Eagle Ford position and we continue to run a consistent program there we are running 11 rigs.
Our intention is essentially to continue that and we’ll continue to see production growth because of that.
What we’ve indicated as we’ve got them remaining about 1800 well locations in the Eagle ford to drill and that’s all based on the assumption that we continue to drill the 80 acre spacing and we have pilot tests underway to determine if that is the right spacing that may ultimately tighten up and there will be more drilling locations.
We are also looking other levels in the Eagle Ford and for potential too.
So we are still very excited about the Eagle Ford position and then we’re going to see significant growth and very high margin growth from the Eagle Ford for several years to come.
Thanks Matt.
And secondly in Alaska it appears that passage of SB21 will impact activity in the state and because you guys are largest producers in acreage order seems that you’ll be the leading beneficiary.
But at the same time your portfolio of how return opportunities is strong as it’s been in several years.
So the question is twofold.
my question is whether the strategy for sales to new markets is changing or put another way how is the company thinking about optimizing realizations on future output from Alaska? Yes so the first part is SB21 the that’s not probably more or less Alaska Production Act that was a significant change as a result of that we will spend more capital in Alaska.
There are opportunities for investment – with the change to the fiscal regime competitive and our international portfolio.
So we will be doing that.
We’ve enhanced a few of those I mentioned few on the call.
So we definitely see potential and you’re right we are very well positioned in Alaska to as the largest producer.
On the ANs and sales and so we do have the flexibility if we want to exercise to take ANs cargos to Asia and we do have the right to do that.
And that will depend on the differential that we’re seeing to Asian prices versus West Coast prices obviously.
But it is good to have that flexibility and then as time evolves we will see if this flexibility we need to exercise.
Great.
Thanks a lot everybody.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to squall the analyst meeting party too much if I can just clarify that the page 13 volume guidance for the full year of 2013 in Q4 is consistent I obviously seem it is with the Slide nine outlook that you have there on the high quality legacy base production.
I’m basically trying to get to 2014 2015 volume number for you guys.
Yeah as we had indicated in the beginning of the year Paul that we would be intending to exit the year essentially at the same level as we come into the year and so that growth you see on Slide nine and the exit that we’re moving towards in the fourth quarter here they’re both consistent.
Now there is the complication of exactly what’s going to happen in Libya I mean that’s 50 000 barrels a day of production it’s not going anywhere and it is still going to be there to produce but it’s really uncertain as to how that will play out over the next several months.
But yeah there is both internally consistent yes… I would have thought there Libya thinking about the Slide 9 was seems to be flat.
I mean was neither declining nor growing I guess? Yeah there was some slight growth actually coming in Libya as we increased our ability to process and sell gas there and the overall scheme of things that was 15 000 16 000 barrels a day.
And that of course is in the base on Slide nine.
That’s grey base on the graphic in the top of top left hand side of Slide nine.
Yeah.
Again I don’t want to kind of spoil – talking too much at the analyst meeting.
But I guess what I’m trying to push towards is this Slide nine outlook is broadly unchanged even allowing for Libya and can be considered to be your outlook for volumes basically.
Just to be precise Paul the Slide nine outlook as Libya included in it Libya just really had to predict what’s...
In anyway you basically outperforming your expectations given that you’ve kept the same number but you’ve lost Libya basically right?  Well we have lowered our fourth quarter numbers to reflect the assumption that Libya will just be off in the fourth quarter but we have not changed our go forward 2013 and beyond numbers and those all still include Libya.
Yeah I have got you.
Not wanting to be – on page 13 the Libya numbers are just completely excluded from 4Q because I’m thinking continuing with this it is not in either of those.
For the full quarter that’s right.
So we show them on that slide we show them as a light blue color at the top just to give perspective or scale.
But we’re assuming in the guidance that we’re giving now for the fourth quarter that Libya won’t come back it may come back in the fourth quarter but we’re assuming for this guidance that it doesn’t.
No I understand yeah I do.
And then again from analyst meeting your previous guidance on CapEx going forward I think was about $15.5 billion to $16 billion a year.
Is that correct?  I think we’ve been seeing as around 16 as basically the guidance we gave at Analyst Day.
That’s the last sort of forward guidance you gave to work on this annual around 16.
Yeah.
And then I guess just a follow up simply the old questions further to Doug which is why don’t you accelerate in the Eagle Ford.
Thanks.
Well the flexibility exist to do that in the Eagle Ford we focused on a few different things here to establish with a optimum array of development is first thing as we want to make sure that we’re operating efficiently and safely so that that comes in as an important factor and we want to move towards Pad drilling and we want to make sure we don’t get in front of infrastructure constraints.
And the Eagle Ford we want to make sure that we are taking advantage of the learning curve because we’re continuing to see learning curve improvements and want to take advantage of that before we ramp up and we want to get results from the many pilot tests we are running in the Eagle Ford too.
So we are making sure whether our investment in capital is efficiently as it can.
And these opportunities are not going away so so we want to – we think that our strategy is the right strategy for us in the Eagle Ford.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Simple quick question hopefully.
Jeff I was looking at your result in the Lower 48 it looked like your [indiscernible] sequentially from the second to the third quarter up by about 1.50 per barrel is there any particular reason why there is such a big jump? I don’t know the details of that fall.
Generally as we’re bringing on some of these unconventional production our reserve bookings are still being down on a fairly conservative basis.
So you’re finding fairly – you are finding higher DD&amp;A rates on some of the unconventional properties and we will probably see longer term that’s probably the biggest single driver that’s going on there.
I hear you but I mean from the first to the second quarter do you also see production increase but your unit DD&amp;A is pretty flat you are just there from the second to third then all of a sudden you jump by $1.50 so that seems very high so maybe that if you can some one to get back to me.
Yeah we will definitely get back on that detail Paul.
Okay.
And in your – you indicate that on Alaska have a negative impact from the lifting I presume you have underneath.
Can you quantify how big is that?  The lift timing in general for this quarter were not big factors.
So we didn’t highlight them in the earnings release the second quarter of Alaska had a favorable impact and the third quarter was relatively small I believe negative impact it was in order of $10 million to $15 million in Alaska where the positive impact in the second quarter I know we mentioned that on our second quarter call that was a much larger number.
And then the company as a whole doesn’t have a lot because when I’m looking at your supplemental slide you indicate that in the third quarter the total company had a overleap of 19 000 barrel per day.
Yeah that’s right Paul.
So in general the overall company impact from timing was relatively small this quarter we had slight negatives in Alaska and some slight positives in other regions but none of them were large enough that we felt like it made since the highlight on this quarter.
And then a final one on I think probably for Matt Matt in Permian it look like that in the third quarter based on the data that you gave back in that will be about 54 000 barrel per day.
Are those all conventional oil production or that some of them is actually already in the oil production?   The vast majority is from the conventional production 4 000 or 5 000 barrels a day production from the unconventional just now in the Permian really in the exploration and appraisal phase in the unconventionals.
So the vast majority is from our conventional program.
And that program is doing great that’s a very high return programs of lots of running room there.
So in the unconventional we’re continuing to evaluate the position that we have and we’re feeling good about that too.
Matt if you’re looking out over the next two or three years and – Permian between unconventional and conventional component.
What is the growth projection that you expect for both sides?   So we’re going to see growth in both the rate of growth obviously in the unconventionals will be a lot faster because we are starting from a lower base.
But we’re going to see significant growth over the next five years on both the conventional and the unconventional and…   Any number you can share say are we talking about over the next five years on the conventional side going by say 50 000 barrel per day; unconventional side going by say 30 000 barrel per day or any kind of number you can share?   Well actually we gave an indication of this our expectations on the analyst day.
So if you go back to the analyst day presentation we had a specific slide on the expectations for growth in the conventionals and the unconventionals in the Permian.
So and our view hasn’t changed since then.
And we’ll update our view of that in our next analyst day in April.
That’s a good go back from that Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Since we are sort of on this unconventional conversation with the Permian I just want to dive in a little bit more on that I mean when do you all think you will feel more comfortable with looking at plays like the Niobrara in the Permian or any of these other unconventional plays you’re testing today to actually get to the decision to put more capital and get somewhat of a development program going.
Is that something that is a more of a later 2015 event or could we see that sooner than that So for the Niobrara for example with the one rig running there we feel 11 wells with the 51 production.
And we’re very well – I think very well through appraisal program.
This is going to run through the end of the 2014.
And the end of 2014 we really know the scale and the scope of our Niobrara development and that’s when we’ll make the development decision where the characteristics of that will be.
The same really applies in the Permian as well.
We’ll go through our test in our portfolio there.
Making sure that we understand which of the different perspective horizons the Avalon the Bone Springs the various Wolfcamp horizons are for the right – the potential and the right place to start that development.
So let’s see that’s probably on about the same timeline by the end of 2014 we’ll have a really good sense of that’s going to develop and in both of those we’ll give some more guidance in the analyst meet in April.
Okay.
And are your acreage positions in like each of those places specifically large enough for the – probably the size of Conoco? I would say so.
And I think that we have got 130 000 acres in the Niobrara and we’ve got about 150 000 acres in the Delaware Basin and about 90 000 acres in the Midland Basin and with multiple horizons that exist in those plays yes it’s a pretty significant position even for a company of our size.
Okay.
And then one last question on the concept of Alaska LNG project APLNG as you all call it.
Can you give me a little more thoughts on what the views in terms of getting a project when could we expect to see those ought potentially pushing forward that and how that kind of reflects other projects coming on in the global market? Okay so the status of APLNG is that we’ve selected a concept and spoke about that as you might remember Scott spoke about that maybe on the last call.
The concept we’ve selected.
We’ve announced in this quarter of the site location that we’re favoring for the location of the LNG plant in the Kinai area and so Central Alaska.
We’re moving towards the stage of getting into Prescott fleet so the early stages of engineering and we’re in conversations with the co-venturers and with the state of Alaska on the timing of that.
We did quite an extensive summer field work season on the pipeline but this is premature to put in a timeline as to claim first production would be because there is a – there is a lot of a water to flow under the bridge.
But we’re focused on it we and the co-venturers and state the focus on that making sure that we fully understand the viability of that project.
So maybe ask the question in a different way than to make this viable.
What kind of size of this project needs to be for you guys? It’s going to be a very large scale project because in each of the resource base there.
And we think this could be a competitive project with other sources of supply otherwise we wouldn’t be pursuing it.
So it’s going to be of pricing of scale I mean it is somewhere between $45 billion and $60 billion of capital.
It’s what we expect it is going to cost.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
I have a couple if I may.
Jeff on the deferred tax with the start up of Norway and obviously I’m not quite sure how other major projects are going to be treated like this but can you give us some ideas to whether or not you will have a touch you’re building as some of these major projects come on stream.
I am not sure I understand your question just let me try and answer if that’s not what you are asking.
Let me try and help a little bit so Ekofisk in Norway you get to uplift your capital if you’ve spent on the development.
So I’m curious just to know are you going to be paying cash taxes on some of these which are the projects and Norway in particular I guess and will you see an uptick in your deferred tax line I am just thinking about the cash flow as we move forward.
Yeah there is lot of moving pieces on deferred taxes.
And if you think about how things are treated tax wise around the world.
Norway you get a relatively quick recovery of your capital.
In the UK you get a very quick recovery of capital.
In the Lower 48 we are spending a quite a bit of capital to the extent you have IDCs we get a quick recovery of capital there as well.
So what you’ll see in this year and what you’ll see probably on into next year.
And then it gets harder to model as you go into subsequent years is that the deferred taxes in general you can think of has been a source of cash for us on the cash flow statement.
So far this year it’s been about a $1 billion source of cash whether keeps running at exactly the rate we have seen for the last few quarters it’s hard to predict but it’s going to certainly it’s going to be a positive number.
So you could consider that a source of cash for both 2013 and 2014.
Thanks.
And as a signal I am sure you are aware of this but – your pure play E&amp;P peers gets some guidance on how much is expected to be – something you might consider which should be – would be really helpful if you would.
A couple of quick follow ups please.
I guess is related to some of the questions of how to raise that the Eagle Ford I would like to turn it to the Bakken place.
Number of your peers have talked abtour resetting your development plans based on Q4 success and down spacing success.
I am just curious about the new acreage of – going on.
I am just curious as that how you’re thinking about that going forward? Thanks.
As I am sure you aware of this but what your pure play E&amp;P peers give some guidance on how much is expected to be current and deferred on all times something you might consider it would be very helpful if you would.
A couple of quick follow ups please I guess this is related to some of the questions at -- but the Eagle Ford I would like to turn to the Bakken please Matt numbers of your peers have talked about resetting their development plans based on Three Fork success and down spacing success.
I am just curious about I mean your acreage is right in the heart of where all of that stuff going on.
I am just curious as that how you are thinking about that going forward? Yeah that we are thinking about that Doug and we’ve got some pilot test underway.
Right now we are developing on a cost effectively 320 acres space and we’re developing both the Middle Bakken and the Three Forks it’s quite possible that we ultimately will want to tighten up that space.
And so we have pilot test underway to try and give us a good sense of possibly optimum spacing and what level of communication exist between the Middle Bakken and the Three Forks that for the frac that we have delivered doing just now.
So yeah we are pursuing the potential for down spacing in the Bakken.
Normal price increase the rig count any time soon? No I don’t think so my comments on that are sort of very similar to the Eagle Ford.
I think we’re running 11 rigs in the Bakken and I think that that’s the right level for now.
But one of the beauties of these unconventional plays is that you do have flexibility and it is just a question of making sure that we’re exercising that flexibility at the right time and moving over the right information.
Thanks and just one final one if I can just squeeze it in.
Jeff I don’t want to like – I am try and front on the Analyst Day but I just want to pick up in your comments about APLNG and CapEx peaking.
I just wanted to be clear were you talking specifically about 2014 should we be directionally can you give us any kind of feel is the how the spending should go 2014 over 2013 and 2015 over 2014? I’ll leave it that thank you.
I think we would it’s going to be a fairly short period of time from now where we can talk a lot more precisely about that with you know.
We’re in the middle of wrapping up our capital outlook for next.
And as Ellen mentioned at the top of the call we’ll be back to you with that in fairly early December.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hi Faisel.
Hi.
Just looking at the project startups you guys have Ekofisk Eldfisk Gumusut Jasmine.
I mean what’s the I’m looking at your at that I think its page seven sort of cash margin per barrel.
What do you say that these projects collectively sort of have in terms of the cash margins per barrel? I’m just trying to get a sense of sort of what the margin uplift is going to be.
I know you guys talk about it but these are three or four big projects that could have a material impact to cash flows? Generally what we’ve looked at; when we think about everything that we’re adding to our portfolio over kind of between now and 2017 that kind of mix has generally low 40s kind of cash margin to it.
And it is when you mix that kind of cash margin with what’s really a high-20s is kind of cash market for us right now that you get that kind of growth.
I think our views on this really aren’t any different than what we had in the analyst presentation where we actually if you recall we had a chart there that kind of plotted cash margins and production growth and it kind of pointed to kind of that same what I just said kind of low-40s type number overall.
Some things like Malaysia where you get capital recovery for the terms of the TSC in the early parts of the year you end with some even higher than cash margins as you are giving capital recovery.
Okay.
And in terms of Eldfisk and Ekofisk those in that same $40 sort of ballpark numbers? They’re probably a little bit they’re probably a bit lower than that because of where the taxes are in Norway they’re probably a little bit they’re more in the 30s than they are in the 40s.
Okay okay understood.
And then just in terms of the Eagle Ford can you give us some little more color on a well cost and I know those numbers have been trending down for you in the last quarter.
But can you let us know kind of where you are today and how we can compare that to rest of the periods in the industry? We’re continuing to see improvements Faisel across the boards and our drilling cost in particular.
We have recently increased the size of our frac jobs starting in September we’ve increased the size of our frac job significantly so completion cost are going up but for good reason.
And what will do the analyst day as we will give you a good breakdown of how that learning curve is being preceding and the overall cost at that time? Okay okay fair enough.
And then in terms of APLNG just any update on labor productivity and how that’s trending with both the downstream build out and also any updates on the upstream any upstream issues or things to note on it any changes from last time when the cost sort of built up a little bit because of the upstream sort of part of the business? No.
The project is going well we are about 50% complete on the upstream part of the project about 54% complete on the downstream.
And we’re tracking really against the milestones that we have outlined for both the downstream and the upstream project and we’re very focused now on getting ready for first production.
So we’re staffing up our operating and staff for that but obviously the project is going well again and April will give an update on the status of that but the projects on track and we are pretty happy with where things are going there.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi John is on for Matt on the unconventionals not to be the dead horse we know you have the in fill potential with the Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
In the past you’ve talked about thinking of in terms of field kind of plateau levels would you rather extend the plateau or increase the rate for the given intervals you expect to peak production or place like the Bakken and the Eagle Ford or is that still to be determined? So the answer is sort of easy both and I would like to increase the plateau size and increase the duration and the opportunity said they exist in our Eagle Ford Permian and Bakken acreages just going to give us the opportunity to do that.
And that is another thing that we’re going to get more guidance on but it potentially exists to do both in those plays.
Okay.
That’s fair.
With some of the newer plays that are kind of in the germinal stages do you have any acreage retention issues like in the Permian and Niobrara? No acreage retention issues that we are not able to manage.
So we are not going to run in to any issues of losing acreage that we think is prospective that’s one of the thing the end points that is how we organize our drilling schedule in these plays.
Okay.
That’s fair.
In Canada with plays like the Duvernay some of your peers have had pretty high costs and I know it’s early days are the costs more prohibitive in terms of getting more aggressive up in Canada for unconventionals at the U.S.? Yeah no I wouldn’t say no.
I mean in fact our development drilling programs and explorations programs in Canada have been reducing costs that they have we actually seen capital efficiency there so and I wouldn’t say that we are seeing that sort of pressure at all in the Duvernay or Montney while the other plays are pursuing up there..
Okay.
Last one from me as more oriented towards Jeff I guess.
You’ve made some very large chunky asset sales and in the future should we see more smaller type byte size sales rather than large turnkey assets.
I think portfolio of our size you probably expect there’ll always be a little bit of assets sales that are happening that could be smaller assets sales I think that it’s still out there that we talked about on previous calls as whether we choose to do something to do lower our concentration in oil sands and that could be just because of the nature of how large of an asset that is for us even a relatively small change and that could be a fairly significant number.
But other than I think the larger asset sales are behind us now and you will see things these be smaller.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Reid of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hello Roger.
I guess but kind of melding the Eagle Ford question with the cash flow questions.
I would imagine where you are on your drilling compared to some other companies your not cash flow positive in the Eagle Ford if that’s correct I’d appreciate the correction but maybe a timing on when you could be free cash positive? So we are today.
You are free cash flow positive today.
Yeah we’re right above free cash flow positive today.
Okay and all right.
So that’s question one the other one was as we look at the decline rate that you’ve highlighted on one of the early charts.
I think I calculated at about 13% roughly 186 I think it was 1000 barrels a day of decline.
What as you go forward and add some of the big projects that you’re adding some of the ones obviously that you started up are pretty traditional but thinking maybe more like APLNG and so forth do we get a slower decline rate going forward and is that part of the production growth uptick we would expect to see kind of let’s say exit rate for 2014 into 2016.
So our overall decline rate in our base production is about 10% in a year and over the next five years.
And then as the production mix changes over those years for example we drill an oil sands and we add APLNG and then the base decline that would tend to mitigate the underlying base decline.
In the other hand we are also growing there by drilling unconventional which on the higher end overall decline so our expectation is that 10% underlying base decline rate is probably good buying for the next five years.
Okay well that was a two things I wanted to hear.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you Roger.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kate Minyard of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Hi Kate.
Hi I was wondering I would like to go back to the ANs question or the ANs topic if I could you talked about having the option to send ANs volumes over to Asia.
Is that just an option that there is a one that you really diligently explored and I guess if I ask it another way if you look out two years how likely do you think it is that Alaskan volumes are leaving the U.S.
versus remaining domestic?  So what would cause us to really focus on that as an option is if we saw ANs gas traded some significant ANs oil excuse me traded some significant discount brent prices which we saw for a short period of time back when WTI brent spreads were very wide and those of course have collapsed quite a bit.
Now ANs is back to trading pretty much flat with brent prices.
It’s an option that we know it’s out there I can’t say that we’ve thoroughly investigating or are trying to make it happen we know that we could if that were the case whether or not it happens in the next couple of years it will depend a lot on where ANs pricing sits relative to other periods.
And have you guys looked at what the shipping differential is between Asia and the West Coast for ANs or have not gotten to that point yet?  Well I think you will have to see that ANs pricing was probably $5 or so below Brent pricing for it to make sense for us to be thinking of doing that.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Kate.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brandon Mei of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Two questions for me.
First one is on I just want to get your thoughts on pricing in Canada moving forward here in the next year or so.
Okay I mean it’s hard to tell.
I mean this is going to remain regulatory I mean weak and maybe Brandon that your assessment is as good as our assessment.
Okay.
And the second question is on the Venezuela ruling What are the next steps in that process and then how should we think about the timing in the amount of the award because I think at the amount of time of expropriation the PV10 was around $10 billion.
Yeah I don’t think we can comment on any expectations of amount but just as far as process goes we have the initial award which sets out some of the parameters upon which the award is going to be which the financial award is going to be calculated we now move – are moving into the more detailed assessment of what exactly what that award is and that’s going to be a process that will take a couple of years to evolve and that’s just something what we are going to continue to update as we can but it’s a process that we continue to work through.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Folks I had pumped in late in the call.
I’ll just limit it to one question.
I was just curious where you think we are in the life cycle of a developing technology to economically develop the lower tertiary.
I guess when I look at your portfolio you’ve got several discoveries you’re drilling the appraisal well at Tiber and talking with peers such as BP developing 20K and what not.
Is it like the technology isn’t quite there just yet what kind of confidence do you have that we’re going to get there and when do you think we can reasonably expect our production from the play? Thanks.
So as I’m sure you know Blake that the not all of the Lower Tertiary is at the same pressure and then the same depth.
But you’re right that the several paths of the Lower Tertiary are going to require a 20K trees.
And that development of those trees is underway and that will come over the next over the next few years.
From where – discovery so far I don’t expect we’ll see production from the Lower Tertiary discoveries and hitting us until the late part of this decade but the development market this required to make sure that we have the technology in place.
But that’s all in hand then it’s – I mean the development in 20K trees isn’t like the man on the moon we know how the trees work is a question of just making sure that we’ve built them and getting them certified that we are confident on their deployment but we will certainly get that done.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Blake.
Thank you.
Back to you operator we’ll wrap up the call here.
Okay.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn it back to Ellen DeSanctis.
I have no further comments either.
Just appreciate all your time and attention.
You’re welcome to call us for any follow-ups and again thanks for your participation and enjoy the rest of the day.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine and welcome everybody.
Our executive speakers for today are Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO; Jeff Sheets our Executive Vice President and CFO and Matt Fox our Executive Vice President of Exploration and Production.
They will make some prepared remarks and then of course will take your questions.
We will have folks to stick a question and one follow up today just so we can move through the queue.
A couple of quick reminders.
Today’s materials are available on our website and we will post the transcript of this call there soon.
I also wanted to remind you we’ve previously announced that we will host our 2014 analyst meeting in New York on April 10.
So look out for some additional logistical details on that.
And then finally our safe harbor statement is shown on Page 2 of today’s presentation that we will make some forward looking statements during today’s website.
The statement as well as our periodic filings with the SEC outline some of the uncertainties and risks in our future performance.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ryan.
Thank you Ellen and hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
So we just finished our first full year of an independent E&amp;P company and all of us here at ConocoPhillips are pretty proud of what we have accomplished.
2013 was a year in which we had to achieve several strategic and operational goals to position the company for 3% to 5% volume and margin growth in 2014 and beyond.
And that’s what we did.
So if you turn to Slide 3 let me describe some of the highlights from this important year.
Operationally we met our production goals for the year.
As importantly we grew our reserves to fuel our future growth.
As we saw it in announcement today we achieved 179% reserve replacement ratio and grew reserves about 3%.
Pretty strong results for a company of our size and certainly speaks to the quality of our asset base and our investment programs.
Our 3% to 5% growth will come from major projects and development drilling programs across our operations.
In 2013 we achieved start-ups in several major projects and we continued to ramp up our unconventional programs in the Lower 48.
These activities will ramp up during 2014 as well and also provide strong momentum into 2015.
In looking longer term our exploration program which is key for sustaining our future growth we had another successful year in 2013.
We announced three Deepwater Gulf of Mexico successes.
We advanced our North American unconventional exploration programs and accessed additional opportunities around the growth goal.
So operationally we hit the milestones we set for ourselves in 2013 and we have positioned the company for growth.
2013 was also a strong financial year.
On a full year adjusted earnings we were at $7.1 billion up 5% compared to 2012’s adjusted earnings.
This translates to $5.70 per share for the year.
Cash from operations grew year over year and we ended up 2013 with $6.5 billion of cash and short term investments on the balance sheet.
Our cash margins grew 11% compared to 2012 and this reflects the fundamental shift toward liquids in our portfolio and certainly a key aspect of our value proposition.
Strategically it was an active year for ConocoPhillips as well.
We closed over $10 billion of non-core asset dispositions including Kashagan and Algeria and these are certainly important steps toward high-grading our portfolio and Nigeria is really the only remaining announced asset sale to complete we hope to have that done relatively soon.
During ’13 we maintained our commitment t to pay a compelling dividend.
We increased our dividend by about 4.5% at midyear and remained committed to increases overtime.
So in summary ‘13 was a very successful year for the company operationally financially and strategically.
We accomplished what we set out to do to high-grade our portfolio to position ourselves for volume and margin growth to access and build opportunities for future growth maintain our financial strength and finally deliver strong shareholder return.
So let me now turn over the call to Jeff and Matt for some additional comments on 2013 and a look into 2014.
Thanks Ryan.
Well first to recap the fourth quarter results on slide four.
Fourth quarter 2013 adjusted earnings were $1.74 billion or $1.40 a share.
Adjusted earnings were essentially flat to last year’s fourth and down slightly sequentially despite lower realizations.
Some of the drivers in this quarter’s performance aren’t obvious so I have the detail on those items.
Embedded in this quarter earnings are weaker liquids realization in North America reflecting wide differentials to WTI and WCS.
For example in our Lower 48 segment our realized price for crude oil averaged 90% of WTI in Q4 2013 compared to 101% of WTI in Q4 2012.
Bitumen prices were also particularly weak this quarter.
Volumes for the quarter were negatively impacted by unusual weather in the Lower 48 and the North Sea which we pre-announced.
We also had continued curtailment in Libya and a plan to turnaround in Qatar.
And finally the quarter benefited from lower tax expenses.
Our tax expenses were lower both because of increased proportion of production in areas more favorable fiscal term as well as an approximately $100 million benefit related to changes in tax estimates from several regions and an $85 million tax benefit related to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against the Australian dollar.
Our fourth quarter segment earnings are shown in the lower right hand side of this chart.
We have provided additional details on our operating and corporate segments in the backup materials.
Next I will cover full year 2013 financials on slide five.
As Ryan mentioned full year 2013 adjusted earnings were $7.1 billion or $5.70 a share and adjusted earnings were up about 5% from the full year of 2012.
And this makes the point that underlying performance is improving realizations are about flat but margins are growing due to increases in liquids production -- liquids production from places of better fiscals which was consistent with our strategy.
Despite volatile pricing and basis differentials throughout the year all of our significant operating segments were profitable.
We continue to believe that our diversified product and geographic splits are key to providing consistent performance overtime.
That was a quick review of our reported earnings results again there is additional information in our backup and supplemental materials.
Now I’ll turn to slide six for some specific comment on production.
Total production in the fourth quarter 2013 was 1.518 million BOE per day which included 1.473 million BOE per day from continuing ops and 45 000 per day from discontinued operations.
This chart shows the drivers of the change in production from continuing operations compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Fourth quarter of 2012 production from continuing operations was 1.566 million BOE per day adjusting for dispositions in Libya which were 10 000 and 43 000 BOE per day respectively.
Normalized production from continuing operations was 1.513 million BOE per day in last year’s fourth quarter and that’s the middle blue bar on the chart.
Moving to the right we show the variance in downtime this quarter driven by unusual weather impacts and a month long turnaround in Qatar.
Finally you will see that growth just about offset decline.
I should note that there wasn’t much of a contribution from major project startups since they came on late in the quarter but they will start making a visible difference in our future production.
The majority of our growth came from our development and major projects in the Lower 48 shale plays and the oil sands in Asia.
The full year volume story is more telling so please turn to page seven.
This chart shows the same convention of the previous chart adjusted for downtime Libya and dispositions we grew product about 2%.
Growth of 207 000 BOE per day was 30 000 per day higher than decline of 177 000 per day.
This reflects underlying production growth in the Lower 48 the Oil Sands Indonesia.
Again the contribution from our recent major projects was negligible given the late year timing.
And one note in 2013 Libya contributed 30 000 boe per day of production and at those volumes 2014 total production was 1.472 million boe per day.
And we intend to exclude Libya in our future production outlook.
So we now think of this 1.472 million boe per day as the base on which we are going to grow 3% to 5% in 2014 and beyond.
And that growth is bringing stronger margins and Slide 8 9 put our growth in margin trends in perspective.
The chart on Page 8 shows the 30 000 barrel a day production change from the previous slide – sliced by segment and product in order of year-over-year change.
At the top of the chart is our growth from liquids focused assets especially the Lower 48 unconventionals the oil sands in Canada and higher margin production from the Asia Pacific segment.
We are growing in the places and in the products that have higher margins and declining in some of the lower margin streams like North America natural gas.
During 2013 liquids production from continuing operations increased to 56% of total production and should continue to improve in 2014 and beyond.
The impact of this mix shift on cash margins can be seen on Slide 9.
This slows year-over-year cash margins both on a reported basis on the left side of the chart and price normalized basis on the right side of the chart.
As you can see from the left chart 2013 cash margins grew 11% on an absolute basis despite flat realized prices compared to 2012 just like in the impact of production mix and location.
On the right side of the page we priced normalize the margins with 2012 as the baseline and margins grew 9% on this basis.
We provided a reconciliation of this chart in our backup materials.
We expect this metric to continue to improve and we will continue to track it since it’s a key aspect of our value proposition.
I will conclude my prepared remarks with our cash flow waterfall which is another good story.
So if you turn to Slide 10 this shows our cash flow performance for 2013.
We began the year with about $4.5 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
For the year we generated about $16 billion of cash from operations and over $10 billion from asset sales.
Our continuing operations capital program was about $16 billion.
We paid about $3.3 billion in dividends.
As we announced in December we prepaid $2.8 billion of future obligations to our 50% owned joint venture interest at FCCL and the remaining cash flow items such as debt repayments and cash flow associated with discontinued operations were a $1.5 billion use of cash.
This leaves us in a very strong financial position at the end of the 2013 with about $6.5 billion of cash and short term investments on hand and a positive outlook for margin improvement that can grow cash from operations.
So as we start 2014 we are well positioned to execute on our investment programs for the company.
That concludes [inaudible] … on Slide 11.
Thanks Jeff.
I will kick off the operation section with some comments on our 2013 reserve replacement performance.
We achieved very strong results for the year.
We ended 2013 with 8.9 billion boe of reserves up 3% compared to last year.
Importantly we added over 1 billion barrels of reserves organically resulting in our organic reserve replacement ratio of 179%.
Including last year we averaged over 165% organic reserve replacement as an independent E&amp;P company.
Our all-in reserve replacement ratio was 147%.
This takes into account the impact of dispositions completed during the year primarily at Kashagan Algeria and Cedar Creek Anticline which produces [ph] 588 million boe.
Some of the key additions came from the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
Most of the additions in these two plays were a result of higher competence in performance and offset bookings [ph].
However we have only booked less than 30% of identified resource in Eagle Ford and Bakken and that’s based on our current well pacings at 80 acres in the Eagle Ford and 320 acres on the Bakken.
So those subside potential still exists in these place as we get results from a spacing pilots.
Canada contributed about a quarter of the additions predominantly from the oil sands.
We also added reserves to APLNGs.
We continue to drill our acreage there and with some contributions from both the U.K.
and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
We’ll provide more details on our reserve bookings including costs incurred in our 10-K that will be filed in February.
Again we are really pleased with these results and we believe the differential for a company of our size.
And the bottomline is that these reserve additions give us confidence in our ability to deliver sustained growth and value accretion from our capital programs.
So next I will review our operating segments.
In each segment I will address key results from the fourth quarter and overall highlights from 2013 and I will give you some color around the activities to watch out for this year.
I’ll start with the Alaska segment on Page 12 starting from the lower left with highlights from the fourth quarter.
We applied for a two-year export license for our Kenai LNG plant.
You may remember we base this facility in cold storage about a year ago to retain the option to restart but conditions changed with increase in gas production that could -- that cannot take advantage of that LNG capacity.
At CD5 we began critical ice road constructions that lead us to new materials for roads and bridges a key to accessing and preparing this project site.
Moving to the top right.
2013 was a big year for our Alaska business probably the most significant highlight was the passage of SB21 of the More Alaska Production Act.
These changes have made the investment climate in Alaska more attractive and as a result we’ll execute much higher budget for 2014 $600 million more than in 2013.
And this capital increase is focused on adding production.
For example in addition to CD5 we continue our major project work at Drill Site 2S and Greater Moose’s Tooth.
And these three projects alone could add over 40 000 barrels a day growth by 2018 to offset the claims through tax.
And we continue to make progress on the Alaska LNG project.
This month we executed the heads of agreement with ExxonMobil BP TransCanada and the State of Alaska that defines a path forward for the commencement of precede and if all goes well precede what at the start of early in the second quarter of this year.
So I’d say we’re making progress in all fronts in Alaska.
Let’s move onto Slide 13 to cover the Lower 48 segment.
As Jeff already mentioned like many other operators we had adverse production impact due to weather in the fourth quarter in this segment.
But despite the weather we achieved some significant progress in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken in particular.
In Eagle Ford their operated program reached a milestone of more than 500 total wells on line.
Production average 126 000 BOE a day in the fourth quarter representing 42% growth versus the same period previous year.
And we reached a peak rate of 141 000 BOE a day in late December.
In the Bakken we achieved a peak rate of 43 000 barrels a day and average 39 000 for the fourth quarter and that’s a 63% increase compared to the same period last year.
In the fourth quarter we also made progress in our emerging deepwater business.
We announced the discovery at Gila conducted appraisal activities at Tiber and Coronado and continue the exploration drilling at Deep Nansen in the Western Gulf of Mexico.
Moving to the full year highlights Lower 48 production was up 34 000 BOE per day representing 7% growth versus 2012.
But more importantly behind this overall growth our oil production grew 24% year-on-year delivering the mix shift we’re targeting as we execute our strategy.
In fact for the full year 2013 the Eagle Ford and Bakken grew 60% on a combined basis compared to 2012.
During 2013 we also matured our appraisal programs in the Delaware and Midland basins and the Niobrara.
We continue to test various horizons completion designs on natural wins in these plays with encouraging results to date.
We’ll give you an update on what we’re learning in our Analyst Day in April.
So the goal of these appraisal programs is they have clearer view of development plans for these plays by the end of this year.
And we are managing Gulf of Mexico deepwater program we announced significant results at Shenandoah and Coronado in the first quarter and the discovery at Gila in the fourth quarter.
These were important milestones and established strong momentum for acceleration in appraisal activities for 2014 and beyond.
Our Lower 48 business is a very unique and high value segment.
We have few leading positions in several of the best Lower 48 unconventional plays where we are growing production and continuing to identify upside.
Also we have an enviable position in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico that’s delivered early success and provides future growth and significant value for the company.
Please go to Slide 14 and we will talk about the Canada segment.
Operationally our Canada business performed very well in the fourth quarter.
Volumes continued to ramp up at Christina Lake Phase E and the Western Canada winter drilling program got underway.
We were focused on drilling a liquids rich inventory.
We continue to drill and evaluate on conventional appraisal and driven in Monterey and we spudded the first horizontal well in the channel play – we drilled two horizontal wells this season.
And overall 2013 was a very important year for the segment like the Lower 48 we advanced very substantial yet divested of opportunities.
For the year production was up 1% and we achieved a 13% increase in liquids production compared to 2012 mostly from the oil sands.
And oil sands business performed extremely well.
Operational volumes grew 17% and by year end the Surmont 2 had achieved over 60% completion.
And this positions us very well for ’15 [ph] next 2015 as we plan.
The theme for 2014 in Canada is continuous investment in growth.
Our conventional liquids rich plays – our unconventional plays and our oil sands assets will all be active with some significant milestones on the horizon.
So let’s move on to our Europe segment on Slide 15.
Like the Lower 48 this segment experienced some very challenging weather impacted fourth quarter production.
However the big news on the fourth quarter was the start of production Ekofisk South in Norway and Jasmine in the UK.
Ekofisk South production started in late October from the first of four pre-drilled wells three months ahead of schedule.
Ekofisk South is designed for 35 production wells that will grow production as we build over the next five years.
At Jasmine first production was achieved in November.
Production is currently constrained by the half of platform capacity until we fill the connection with J-Area [ph] platform which should occur during this quarter.
Clearly the major projects dominated the operational themes for 2013 but extensive [indiscernible] in large part project startups were key activity in the middle of the year and were executed very well.
In addition to the two major projects I just discussed work advanced on additional projects at Eldfisk 2 Britannia Long-Term Compression and Clair Ridge.
We enter 2014 focused on ramping up and optimizing our major projects at Ekofisk South and Jasmine and establishing production through our new East Irish Sea asset plant.
In addition the Britannia long-term compression project is preparing for startup in the third quarter of this year and pre-drilling is underway at Eldfisk 2 in anticipation of startup in early 2015.
On exploration front in this segment we expect to see results from our unconventional appraisal in Poland; two verticals wells and one horizontal well are planned.
We've also begun exploratory drilling in the Barents Sea.
So our Europe segment had a pivotal year in 2013 after several years in project mode.
We're positioned for growth from high value production that will extend the life of our legacy positions in Europe.
We have a lot of work to do to ramp up and optimize our operations in 2014 but these positions – these activities will position us for a strong future in that segment.
Finally I'll cover our Asia Pacific and Middle East segment on Slide 16.
Key fourth quarter highlights in this segment included the completion of the QG3 plant planned turnaround in Qatar and continued progress and access on future exploration options.
We obtained operatorship and 100% working interest in the Palangkaraya PSC in Indonesia and we completed our seismic work in the Qijiang Block of China.
These are both examples of relatively low cost early stage exploration options.
I'm pleased with the potential for materiality.
Highlights for all of 2013 included progress on major projects that will make a step-function contribution to future production levels in this segment.
During 2013 our partners progressed towards major project start-ups in Malaysia.
We are now anticipating a first quarter start-up at Siakap North-Petai and a second quarter start-up at Gumusut.
Our APLNG project is on schedule for first LNG by mid-2015 the Niobrara project stands at about 60% complete.
On the exploration front we announced the Proteus gas discovery in the Browse Basin which was an untested structure to the Southeast of the Poseidon discovery.
The big catalyst for 2014 of the Malaysian start-ups at SNP (inaudible) and Kebabangan.
And we have an important year ahead at APLNG as we approach start-up in 2015 and we expect to provide a full update of these projects at our April Analyst Meeting in New York.
Our appraisal programs offshore Australia will continue in 2014 with two wells each plans in the Poseidon area and the Caldita/Barossa and the punch line in this segment is very straightforward.
Significant production ramp up over the next couple of years from high margin volumes and upside from a drilling exploration condensate.
I don’t have a slide in our other international segment.
The main focus last year was on executing the divestitures that Ryan mentioned.
In 2014 the key segment activity will be of exploration in Senegal and Angola which should get underway by midyear.
I will conclude my prepared remarks with some comments on our production outlook for the first quarter.
We are on track to deliver 3% to 5% growth in 2014 from the projects and activities I just described.
Excluding Libya we expect to achieve approximately 1.5 million barrels a day this year.
As Jeff mentioned we’ll exclude Libya from future production outlook since we are not optimistic that production will resume from the eastern field anytime soon.
In the first quarter we estimate the volumes from continued operations excluding Libya could range from 14.90 to 15.30 and those in BOE per day.
This range reflects short-term uncertainty around the ramp up of recent and pending start-ups and includes a 15 000 barrel a day impact from a turnaround of the second chain in Qatar that will occur in March.
Now I will turn the call back to Ryan for a brief recap and summary of the key things for 2014 on slide 17.
Thank you Matt.
So I hope there is no doubt that 2013 was a successful year for the company.
We delivered on our commitments but perhaps more importantly we positioned the company for a strong 2014.
Operationally we had a significant inflection point for the company.
We expect to continue ramping up our unconventional drilling programs and progressing on our major growth project.
And as Matt mentioned we expect to grow on almost all of our business segments this year while progressing the major projects that will continue our growth into 2015 and beyond.
Meanwhile it’s a big year for our exploration programs.
In our conventional program we will be drilling in the Gulf of Mexico Angola Senegal the Barents Sea in Australia.
In our unconventional program it was an active year in the Lower 48 Permian the Niobrara plays as well as Poland and Canada.
We should see ongoing improvement in underlying margins as we bring on new volumes and we will maintain our focus on improving returns while staying committed to returning capital to our shareholders.
On the strategic front we are moving beyond the positioning phase of our journey as an independent E&amp;P company.
So now we are focused on executing our current plans to deliver growth in volumes in margins while positioning the company for long-term success.
Our goal here is to have a deep inventory of choices and options for investment and to be the best capital allocators in the business.
We think our diversified approach to this business will service well over the long-term.
We are not dependent on any single product play type or geography and this allows us to consistently execute our programs through the cycles.
Bottom line we are positioned to deliver 3% to 5% growth in both production and margins with a compelling dividend.
That’s our value proposition that we set out and we are committed to delivering on it.
So I hope Jeff Matt and I have given you confidence that our plans are on track for delivering key milestones in 2014.
It should be exciting year and I look forward to seeing you at the Analyst Meeting in April in New York.
And I would mention -- I think Matt mentioned 2014 production of 1.55 million BOE per day.
So now let me take all your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Doug Terreson of ISI Group.
In Lower 48 and also in International E&amp;P cash margin seemed to have been significantly stronger versus the year ago period despite the [indiscernible] from realization which I think one of Jeff's slide indicated.
On this point I want to see if we could get some color on the improved performance in those two areas and specifically where you are seeing the improvement regionally in both Lower 48 and International E&amp;P? Doug I think it primarily comes back to changes in mix when you look at cash margins within that segment and that's what we are trying to highlight with the slide.
It just kind of shows year-over-year changes in production.
You just saw a fairly large shift in liquids production that we talked about increases in very significant percentage related primarily to Eagle Ford and the Bakken the biggest driver of that change.
And Internationally Jeff could it be the loss of some lower margin production as well? Yes I think that's the overall mix.
As you would have properly flagged there Doug if you look year-over-year we basically had the same overall realized price.
But the shift of production within different jurisdictions which is kind of highlighted on that one slide we have shows production going up in the Lower 48 up in Canada up in Asia down in Alaska down in Norway down in the U.K.
So up in kind of lower tax areas and down in higher tax areas.
That has a lot to do with helping drive the cash margin – that and just the shift overall to liquids production over gas production.
Doug that's what we said.
That's going to continue because that's the direction that's the strategy that's how we're allocating our capital and that's how we're thinking about how we grow the margins and grow our cash flows as the production grows.
And then just quickly on capital expenditures.
I think Slide 10 indicated that the company prepaid almost $3 billion of its oil sands commitment.
And so I want to see if you could spend a minute on that item specifically why the company chose to do so? Was not there any interest or tax benefits that were meaningful and also how it affects the spending profile on that project going forward? As we mentioned we prepaid a $2.8 billion obligation that we had and that was something that we incurred when we set up the joint venture back many years ago.
The key for us is that was an interest-bearing obligation it had about a 5% interest on it.
You can really think of that being equivalent to debt.
It was an obligation that we needed to pay over the next several years and when we had as much cash as we have on our balance sheet just from a balance sheet management point of view that makes sense to prepay that obligation and save the 5% interest as opposed to leaving that cash on your balance sheet and variable return on the cash.
But the other thing we want to make sure we point out on that is cash that's moving into a 50% joint venture.
So while it's a $2.8 billion outflow for us that means that we essentially still own about half of that $2.8 billion.
So it's more of a $1.4 billion net of outflow.
So that does reduce capital that we'll have in the subsequent years.
We did that primarily just from kind of a balance sheet management point of view of getting rid of an interest-bearing obligation and taking advantage of the fact that you would otherwise have cash on your balance sheet not making a very good return.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Just thinking about one of the components of that is obviously your shale portfolio and you gave good guidance back at the investor day last year.
Still some growth in the Eagle Ford where you seem to be a bit ahead of plan in the Bakken and Permian then accelerate.
So what's the constraints on perhaps even driving a little bit harder in terms of shale? Is it the amount of money that you have to still spend on some of these longer life pancake type assets  SAGD APLNG or is it that the shale itself has not yet delineated enough for you to put more capital to work? Well Ed this is Matt.
It's really neither of those things actually really what is the -- we’re focused just now on running a safe and efficient operation.
We do want this economy to scale we do want to get too far ahead of infrastructure.
But the real reason is that that we’re benefiting from -- still benefiting from our cost learning curve and are drilling in the completions and that’s going to improve even further as we move towards spud drilling for most of our wells.
So the cost learning curve and then there’s a huge technology learning curve ahead of us in the unconventionals.
This going to improve the overall efficiency of these developments and -- in the years to come.
So we see consistent redeem in the Eagle Ford with an 11 rig program and we do have the flexibility as you point out to change that everything that’s a right value proposition.
Right.
And most of the rigs which is HPP so there’s no pressure as well.
And then just a follow-up on shale and Matt what are you most excited about that you feel that you can talk about last year when you think about the North American shale clearly not just and maybe include Colombia as well but not just in the U.S.? Sure.
I mean I think we’re making progress on all of the shale plays clearly the Eagle Ford and Bakken are now in development mode but we’re still seeing upside there and associated with pilot test that we’re running for looking at decrease in well space and I sort of alluded to that in my prepared remarks.
And we’re getting encouraging results in the Permian both in the Delaware and the Midland Basin and encouraging results in the Niobrara.
And then again in Canada we have -- we’re still getting good results from our unconventional program out there.
And we’re going to give you a lot more detail on this when we get to the Analyst Meeting in April because we think we will give you sort of update on what we’re learning in all these plays and that I’ll take a bit of time and we’ll do that in April.
I would add Ed that we continue to believe and I think our results are proving out that we’re in best positions in the best plays and can we get any surprises we get usually to the upside and we’ve got more resource and more opportunity as we think about our capital program and our allocation of capital is -- some of the big projects starting to wind down.
Great.
Very helpful.
Very clear.
Thanks.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Jim Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon Jim.
Just wanted to look a little bit ahead on this margin story obviously the passage of SB21 the last production act as you guys thinking a little bit differently about Alaska.
And we obviously appreciate the details on Moose’s Tooth and so forth.
And I -- with the reservation that I’m sure you guys are working on -- I want to talk about this in more detail at the analyst day.
But you guys just comment a bit on how you see that affecting the margin profile going forward.
I mean obviously you have an array of tax benefits in that bill.
And so just can you sort of how to -- how it compares to the base production and is it kind of along the lines of Lower 48 or how should we think of that? Well it’s not as strong the Lower 48 because there’s still even with the tax improvements in Alaska higher taxation in Alaska than in the Lower 48.
The Alaska production is all oil.
Which helps us on the cash margin side as well where you think about something like Eagle Ford is kind of 60 oil and 20 NGLs and 20 natural gas.
So Alaska is going to also contribute to helping with cash margin because the continues to help with the oil production probably not as much as increased Lower 48 production wells.
Okay.
Great.
That’s all I had.
Thanks Jim.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi Paul.
Good afternoon Paul Hi Paul.
I have two questions one maybe is a little bit overall picture Ryan one of your competitors Shell the new CEO is essentially saying that had it been a hunch it’s risky and want to scale back.
Obviously that for the company and from your side you can’t just always go for the single it won’t work? So that’s basically that you have what internally considered by the proper allocation of capital how much is your percent of your capital you want to chase those really high-risk big (inaudible) or that how much is that you for that’s a lower risk and smaller one? And also that whether it’s capital or production profile I mean is there anything you can share on that thinking? Yeah.
What I’d say Paul is that we’re broadly at the higher level in terms of allocation.
We think about spending about 15% of our capital on the exploration.
We like to do that through the cycles.
Now if we get success and we start to appraise we’ve got a decision that we face about increasing that percentage for appraisal and keeping an exploration program going.
But I’d say broadly speaking we’re spending about 15% of our capital on exploration.
We’re really kind of value based as we think about it.
I don’t go into it trying to overload either unconventional or conventional.
Today our program is pretty balanced.
It’s about 50-50 conventional and unconventional.
But everything has to compete.
So whether it’s a new unconventional play that we might be looking at in other country or here in the U.S.
or in North America it’s got to compete on a cost to supply basis and an expected rate of return.
So for doing our risking appropriately doing our technical work appropriately everything has got to play.
So I don’t really look at it and say I’m not going to go elephant hunting or anything like that we’re just trying to do the best technical work we can risk it the best way we can and then every dollar competes.
So we’re not… I guess I mean Ryan if I could clarify myself.
When I say elephant hunting it’s not just for the exploration.
So for example when you go with Alaskan LNG if indeed that the project trying not to be economically viable is going to be extremely expensive? And even the partner that your share is going to be huge.
So there is huge big block and if anything happened there it is going to be a huge negative impact on the company.
So those are kind of projects.
So I’m wondering that if they internally sell off my -- a percentage of the capital or the production you want to be in those big projects? I think we look at -- we still look at returns and cost of supply and try to ask ourselves is it competitive in the portfolio.
We know that big resource long-dated projects like Alaska LNG that you referred to are similar to what we’re executing in Queensland or what we’re doing in the oil sands of Canada.
Both have a different profile different return profile than unconventionals in North America but again this is the part where we think a diversified large global E&amp;P company with the balance sheet like we have is important because there is a place in the portfolio for some of those projects to balance it out.
Over time they reduce capital intensity and they have a place in the portfolio.
But we have to be careful.
We have to look at the other alternative investments and the other options and choices we have in the portfolio.
And we haven’t made that decision on the Alaska gas because we’re still studying it and we’re still trying to understand what that cost is going to look like what the economics how it competes in the global marketplace for LNG and how it competes in our portfolio.
And the second question is for Matt.
Matt on Eagle Ford based on your previous production chart from this point on that growth is really going to slow down.
But I guess my question is is that just being out of conservative or indeed you think that is the most likely base case scenario.
Should we be more aggressively trying to shift and increase the activity in either Bakken or in the Permian? Yeah.
So we’re going to give you an update on that Paul as we may get together in the April for the Analyst Day.
That was a view of how production would be likely to move in the Eagle Ford.
Our view has been changed.
We were going to show you something that’s a bit more optimistic than that in April.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Folks good afternoon.
I’m sorry to ask you to repeat the guidance.
But I just wanted to make sure be a 100% clear.
I thought I heard the first quarter guidance number and then a full year.
And I was hoping you could just repeat that if you don’t mind? The first quarter guidance Blake was 1 490 000 to 1 530 000 barrels a day for the first quarter and that’s really -- there is quite a wide range of uncertainty there because of the ramp-up of new projects that are going to be happening in that quarter.
And this also would be affected by the downtime and the one of the Qatar LNG trends.
So that was that the first quarter.
And our full year guidance is basically unchanged from what we’ve been seeing at 1.55 million barrels a day for the year.
And all of those numbers I just gave you exclude Libya.
Okay.
Matt just to be clear.
Now you had some weather-related impacts on Lower 48 in 4Q obviously we’ve seen some pretty rough weather this past week.
Does that contemplate anything you may be witnessing currently for 1Q? That range includes some uncertainty and any weather impacts that we’ll see for the remainder of the quarter.
Okay great.
The second question I had for you this maybe a bit premature but on pre-salt Angola I know you will begin drilling this year.
Some of your peers who had success and ended up having some gas basically the fiscal terms from what I understand didn’t really contemplate monetizing gas.
Are you trying to proactively get ahead of maybe kind of reevaluating your contracts with the government or you just taking a wait-and-see approach there? We don’t have gas right within those two blocks blocks 36 and 37.
And the way that we model the petroleum system there we don’t expect to find gas the way we model the maturity of the (inaudible) expectation is that we will find oil if we find anything it’s still exploration in next program.
So they -- we are still hopeful for that.
We had blocks.
It’s a quite fix section above the structures and the effect of that is that it fills the [Soshok] which means the [Soshok] less material not to get too technical on your business.
But nonetheless we expect that that’s going to be an orderly petroleum system prospect.
Okay.
Good to hear.
Thank you.
Thanks Blakse.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
Hey Doug.
Hey Doug.
I am not sure who wants to take this one but if you go to Slide 7 in your book.
I am wondering if you could give us a little bit of help with its puts and takes on how you see 2014.
So 1.55 guidance I’m looking at last two bars of decline in the growth because what I’m really trying to get to is the composition over the decline in terms of gas in particular obviously that’s when you look at your realized margin I am guessing that would be a big help because there is a lot of gas in there.
So if you could help me with the puts and takes and I got a follow-up? Doug this is Ellen here.
We love to take this kind of offline with you.
We’ve got the data that could help you but I don’t have it at my finger tips.
Obviously in the 177 quite a bit of -- our North American gas is declining of course and now we see in the 207 excuse me the growth we show on that page that our liquids ramped in the unconventional.
Doug your question is probably more looking forward to 2014 right? Yeah yeah its pretty much for 2014.
I am trying to get a feel for the underlying decline on the mix and underlying decline.
Yeah.
I don’t think that data we got really at our finger tip right now.
Directionally we are going to see the same type of things.
We are going to continuing to grow more liquids production than gas production as we ramp up oil production in Malaysia as we continue to grow the unconventional that the oil sands continue to grow.
So you will see lot of the same things in 2014.
We probably have to -- I am not sure if we tap that information that’s something we can probably give you more detail on… Analyst Meeting here.
…when we do the Analyst Meeting.
Yeah that’s great.
I will pick it offline.
My follow up really is kind of related I guess but hopefully you can help me with this one Jeff but if I look at the next several projects coming on line it looks to us at least that that there is a fair number of them we’ll not incur cash taxes at least from the early years of production.
I am just wondering if you could help offer some color and particularly things like basically you came in all feedstock I’m guessing you won’t be paying cash taxes in early years.
I’m just wondering if you could confirm that and may be press numbers around that.
Thank you.
Yeah I may add a few things and will see that quite helps.
So if you think about where our capitals going in the Lower 48 lot of it’s going into drilling lot of that capital is IDCs and which of course get very rapid depreciation.
In Norway you get rapid depreciation in U.K.
you get essentially almost immediate depreciation on new capital.
So directionally you are right on all of those.
The way that manifests itself in kind of our results is just what you see under deferred tax line on the cash flow statement.
You’ve seen that that was a pretty significant source of positive cash in 2013 little bit less so in the fourth quarter than in the other quarters but there were some impacts that how the impairments in the fourth quarter roll through the cash flow statement ebbs and flows impacts.
You would have seen the similar number in the fourth quarter which you saw in the previous quarter.
So it was a pretty substantial impact positive to cash that will probably continue on in the 2014.
But I don’t have the number that I can give you that you know exactly what that impacts are going to be.
But that’s where it shows up for us it’s – how much of it add back to your deferred tax and new cash flow statement.
That’s embedded in your report cash margins Jeff? No.
It’s not.
The way we do a cash margin calculation is just simply a adjusted net income plus your amortizations plus your DD&amp;A and your dryhole cost and your leasehold amortization.
So we don’t factor in deferred tax into that.
So if we take rather kind of simplified approach to cash margins and we do that because that’s the kind of metric we can have a comparison against other companies with.
Got it.
Really helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Doug.
Welcome back to you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I appreciate the guidance on margin growth and production growth.
I was also wondering whether you guys have sort of goals on return on capital employed and what those looks like underneath so the assumptions you have for 2014 and for that matter going forward? So our return on capital employed for 2013 is pretty similar to what we saw in 2012 and it will be will be a bit challenge to improve return on capital employed in a very near term.
A lot of that has to do with the fact we got large capital going into projects that are not really producing much right now if you think about APNLG some of the oil sands assets and also due to the fact that as Matt mentioned in his remarks we were relatively conservatively booked on a lot of the unconventionals which leads to some pretty high DD&amp;A rates on the unconventionals and all those things kind of impact net income which of course impacts return on capital employed.
You see a better picture for us once APLNG starts up when the Surmont starts up and once we get a little bit more fully booked on the unconventional.
So we do see that we will be improving returns on capital employed plus prices can affect that metric as they change but those improvements are probably more in a 2016 2017 kind of timeframe.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And just on Alaska so I understand it’s kind of early to figure out what the cost this project would be but what type of capital are you spending right now on it and what are the -- what’s sort of the critical sort of timelines or sort of time post in order for this to sort of move forward or even gain some traction? I assume you’re talking about APLNG? Yeah.
Yeah.
So as you know we’ve selected the concept -- we’ve selected to say.
We just announced an [HOA] with the first structure in place for the project and we’re hopeful we’ll start pre-FEED in the second quarter.
Right now it looks like a project that will be somewhere between $45 billion and $65 billion and that’s because of some movement different scope and so on but that’s our scale.
And it will be something around the 17 million tons per annum since three chains there.
And the timeline that we’re working with just now is that we would make a final investment decision in 2016 or 2017.
There is quite a bit FEED required for project of this scale and between the pre-FEED and the FEED that will be 2016 or ‘17 before we make a final investment decision and first gas would be 2022 to 2025.
So that’s the sort of range that we’re thinking about just now for the project.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thanks Faisel.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Roger.
Hey Roger.
Well I guess main thing I’d like to focus on here is just trying to understand the I know how you reiterated the 3% to 5% volume growth 3% to 5% margin expansion.
Could we walk through here what the margin expansion should be from at least my growth assumption more of second half ‘14 of that but just I wanted to hear what your take is on that? I think that’s probably a fair assumption.
As Matt mentioned earlier as we think about volumes overall for 2014 the impact of timing on start-ups at some of these key major projects is going to be a question.
I mean we do -- I think like some of the previous questions that I have gotten too.
The same kind of things that drove margin growth this year are going to be the things the drivers next year as we continue to ramp up oil sands production ramp up Lower 48 production and get to a full production in Gumusut which because of the way the production recovery works there had some really strong cash part and so you will see those all same three drivers.
North America natural gas probably won’t grow in our portfolio going forward.
We could see a slowing of decline in Alaska but overall that’s probably not going to cause margins to move significantly.
So it’s really back to the same primary drivers that we’ve had this year going to be drivers in 2014 as well.
With the same reductions in the gas side so Europe Lower 48 some of the lower margin gas it’s not getting capital investment Roger it starts to decline since that mix that Jeff described in his remarks.
Okay.
So it is safe to assume that margin is sort of a full year event in the production.
Like you said I don’t know want to put words in your mouth.
But at least in my assumption on projects start-ups more of a second half event does it get right away? Yeah.
And really with cash metric like that we try to warn every quarter that that can swing up and down because incoming DD&amp;A can be less than I would say ratable through the year for different reasons.
So we think it’s important as we go forward that we talked about just kind of how we’re progressing on more longer-term measures and just looking at it quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
And well I know you don’t give quarterly production.
The last question I had was last year especially in the summer months a lot of turnaround activity had a pretty significant impact on production volumes.
Can you kind of characterize for us this year when we would be anticipating in terms of maintenance and turnarounds?  Yes.
In 2014 we’re expecting about 20% more planned downtimes than we have in 2013.
And we’ve got downtime I mentioned in the QG3 between seven in the first quarter.
We have turnarounds in Prudhoe Bay in the second and third quarter turnarounds in the U.K.
in the second and third quarter.
And a big turnaround to the Bayu-Undan field in Australia in the third quarter.
So we are expecting the overall planned at 10 times to be above 20% more than it was in 2012.
2013.
In 2013 sorry.
Thank you.
Thank Roger.
Thank you.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Ellen DeSanctis.
Thank you Christine and thank you everybody.
Of course feel free to call us back.
If you have any lingering questions then we certainly look forward to seeing you in April.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2014 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine and good morning to everybody.
With me here today are Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer and Matt Fox our EVP of Exploration and Production.
Jeff will cover the quarter’s financial highlights and then Matt will take us through the quarter’s operational highlights and provide some color on what to watch out for what’s to pay attention to for the remainder of the year.
Then we’ll have Q&amp;A in the last.
During Q&amp;A if you can limit your questions to two.
Of course jump back into the queue if necessary.
We will make some forward-looking statements this morning.
And the risks and uncertainties in our future performance are described on page 2 of this morning’s presentation material and also in our periodic filings with the SEC.
This information as well as our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations and additional supplemental information can be found on our website.
Now we’ll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Ellen.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you know we just recently held our 2014 analyst meeting in New York where we reaffirmed our plans to deliver double digit returns annually to our shareholders.
We outlined our production in margin growth plans for the next few years and hopefully gave you increased confidence on our ability to deliver on those plans.
We have an exciting year ahead and as we reported this morning are off to a strong start.
So Slide 4 lists our key highlights for the first quarter.
Operationally we have a very good quarter.
We produced 1.53 million BOE per day from continuing operations excluding Libya.
Adjusted for dispositions and downtimes this is up about 3% compared last year’s first quarter so we’re seeing growth.
We also made progress on key activities that will continue to drive organic growth.
We delivered on key milestones around our major projects and continued our strong performance on the unconventionals.
Exploration and appraisal activities continued during the quarter in the North American unconventional across Mexico deep water Australia and elsewhere.
These activities are key to our reserve and production growth beyond 2017.
Financially this was also a very strong quarter.
We achieved adjusted earnings of $2.3 billion or $1.81 per diluted share.
This was quite higher than expectations and I’ll address some of the drivers of this stronger than expected performance on the next slide.
During the recent quarter we generated $4.4 billion in cash from our operating activities alone.
We also had positive working capital change of about $600 million in a distribution of $1.3 billion from FCCL so a total cash from operations of $6.3 billion.
And our balance sheet remains very healthy with over $7.7 billion in cash and short-term investment fund on hand as of the end of the quarter.
Strategically we delivered on both production and margin growth this quarter.
We continue to expand our inventory organic growth opportunities to support our growth to support our growth goals.
And importantly we remain committed to deliver in double digit returns to our shareholders annually including a compelling dividend.
So all in all the first quarter was very strong operationally financially and strategically.
So now I’m going to turn to Slide 5 for a discussion on earnings.
First quarter adjusted earnings of $2.3 billion were up 29% compared to last year’s first quarter and up 30% sequentially.
Adjusted EPS of $1.81 was higher than consensus about a dime of the difference of roughly $100 million was due to North American natural gas price realizations that were stronger than the realizations indicated by changes in market prices.
Another dime or about another $100 million was due to gains from marketing of third party natural gas during the quarter.
As a reminder we have a strong commercial gas marketing organization that markets both equity and third party gas in North America.
Given the high volatility in the first quarter gas prices our commercial team was able to capture some benefit by supplying both equity and third party gas into premium markets.
This benefit from our third party activities is not necessarily repeatable but it speaks to our strong marketing capability.
First quarter segment earnings are shown in the lower right side of this chart.
So the financial details for each segment can be found in the supplemental data that accompany this morning’s release.
But then we address a couple of items about the segments.
Lower 48 earnings included the marketing gain.
I just talked about it as well as strong realizations for natural gas.
Canada segment earnings were very strong and again reflecting stronger business prices and the gas realizations.
Gas realizations for the quarter were $5.81 reflecting both strong acre pricing and the placement of some volumes in the premium markets during the quarter.
Canada segment earnings also included approximately $60 million benefit from foreign exchange which was offset mostly by foreign exchange losses across other parts of the portfolio.
The last was pretty straightforward with nothing unusual to highlight in the quarter.
Europe operations performed well in the quarter with growth coming from several major projects.
And if you look over the past several quarters we’re starting to see the benefit of volume growth in this segment.
Our Asia-Pacific and Middle East segment was impacted by lift timing differences in China and Western Australia but otherwise was in line with expectations.
And finally our corporate segment was in line with our previous guidance.
So if you’ll turn to Slide 6 I’ll cover our production results for the quarter.
As you know our convention for production is continuing operations less Libya.
On this basis our first quarter averaged 1.53 billion BOE per day.
Normalized for disposition and this is compared to 1.495 million per day in the first quarter of 2013.
The waterfall shows that over the period we had 6 000 BOE per day more plan and unplanned downtimes and in the first quarter of 2013 and net growth of 41 000 BOE per day.
That represents a 3% increase compared to a year ago.
The box on this stage illustrates the composition of this 41 000 BOE per day of growth.
As we discussed at our recently analyst meeting we are growing in the highest marks and portions of our portfolio and this growth of higher margin production is driving growth in the company’s cash margins.
And we’ll discuss that margin growth on the next slide which is Slide 7.
This slide show changes in our cash margins from the first quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014.
And also on a sequential basis.
On the left side of the chart are the margins on as report basis which were up over 20% year-over-year on strong natural gas prices.
And on the right are the margins on a price normalized basis.
So on a price normalized basis margins increased 13% year-over-year.
Over this improvement over a third or 5% is due to our underlying liquids growth especially in areas with more favorable fiscals.
The remaining 8% margin improvement was due to the benefits related to equity and third party gas marketing activities that we’ve just discussed as well as Libya being down.
So we are delivering on our commitment to improve margins as we grow not just generating growth for growth’s sake.
I’ll conclude my prepared remarks with our cash flow waterfall which is another good story.
So I’ll move that now to Slide 8.
This shows our cash flow performance for the first quarter.
We began the first quarter with $6.5 billion of cash in short-term investment from the balance sheet.
You can see we generated $4.4 billion of cash from operating activities.
Had a $1.3 billion FCCL distribution and a working capital benefit of $600 million.
We had capital expenditures and investments of $3.9 billion.
And after paying our dividends and returning debt of $500 million we ended the quarter with $7.7 billion of cash in short-term investment from the balance sheet.
We’ve reduced our debt to cap ratio to 28% from 29% the beginning of the year.
So we’re in great financial shape and well-positioned to execute our investment programs for the company.
That concludes the review of our financial performance.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Matt for an update on our operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
So to begin I’ll provide a first quarter operations update for each of our business segments.
Then I’ll go over our production outlet for the remainder of the year.
And I’ll conclude with a preview of some key activities to watch over for the rest of 2014.
As we talked about each segment you’ll hear a comment spread through the presentation and that’s true.
As we progress through 2014 and then to 2015 we expect to see growth in almost every segment of our business.
And we’re not just growing volumes.
We’re growing margins.
Virtually all of our growing production will be at margins higher than our average margins to be.
So let’s go to Slide 10 our Lower 48 in Latin America segment which continues to lead the way on strong growth of the company.
First quarter production averaged 507 000 BOE per day for this segment which is 7% increase from the first quarter of 2013.
But more importantly our crude production increased 16% over the same period.
The biggest contributor to this growth with the Eagle Ford with just an average of 147 000 BOE per day during the quarter.
Our daily peak rate for the quarter was 163 000 barrels a day.
So we achieved good momentum after the weather problems early in the quarter.
But currently our trail [ph] of operated rigs running in the Eagle Ford I mean we brought 48 wells on line in the first quarter.
We’re transitioning to the 80-acre high low developments spacing to outline our analyst meeting a few minutes ago.
And we have additional pilots and progress that are testing other than spacing.
In the Bakken we average 43 000 BOE per day and achieved a peak daily rate of off 54 000 barrels a day in the first quarter.
We’re also performing pilot test in the Bakken to optimize our drilling and development programs.
Unconventional drilling and testing continues in the Delaware and Midland basins in the Permian as well as in the Niobrara.
It’s still early days but as we said in the analyst meeting we remain optimistic about these amazing place [ph].
In addition to our unconventional activities are appraisal drilling in the deep water goal for Mexico continues at Tiber and Coronado and exploration drilling continues at Deep Nansen.
In Slide 11 we’ll give you some highlights from our Canada segment.
Operationally our Canada business performed very well in the first quarter.
We produced 280 000 BOE per day which includes a 9% increase in liquids production from the first quarter o 2013.
Surmont 1 deep automating [ph] is progressing and the major project in Surmont 2 remains on schedule for first team in the middle of next year.
At the end of the quarter the project was 68% complete.
Christina Lake Phase E is approaching full capacity and Foster Creek Phase F remains on track across production and the third quarter of this year.
As part of our Western Canada winter drilling program we successfully drilled 25 horizontal wells in the liquid rich plains across our acreage position.
This program continues to deliver good returns and also a lot of drilling inventory.
And we achieved a big milestone on the first quarter by drilling the longest horizontals onto well effort [ph] drill in Canada over 13 000 feet.
There’s an impressive operation on technological accomplishment.
And it shows we’re working 10-year [ph] to optimize the programs.
We also continue to explore and appraise our own conventional place in the Duverny and Montney where we’re encouraging early results.
I’ll now cover the Alaska segment on the next slide Slide 12.
Alaska production was about flat sequentially at 200 000 BOE per day.
We remain encouraged by the improved –fiscal ‘10 [ph] was brought why the passage of the More Alaska Production Act last year.
And no we plan to spend more capital in Alaska in 2014 than we’ve spent over the past three decades.
This increased investment will mitigate the claims and legacy fields and provides growth from new satellite fuels into the future.
We’re making good progress at Drill Site 2S and Kuparuk.
The Greater Moose Tooth [ph] is one project in the west from slope.
And the one inch [ph] north east west side project.
That one inch [ph] news project is a third new project that have been initiated by the company since the passage of the More Alaska Production Act last spring.
We’ve had a good one to construction season ad at CD 5 and remain on track for stock up in [ph] late 2015.
We drove two exploration wells in the western north slope.
This one’s and flat top one.
And we’re in the process of evaluating those results.
[Indiscernible] but the contract is saying to deliver six cargos in 2014 with first shipment this month.
In April enabling legislation was passed by the state legislation to allow the State of Alaska’s equity participation in the AK LNG project.
That is a positive step forward for the project but there’s still a lot of feasibility of what to do.
And we hope to move into [indiscernible] in the near future.
Alaska has become an attractive area for investment.
We’ve got a lot of activity underway.
But we expect to provide additional growth opportunities for this segment in the future.
I’ll next cover our Europe segment on Slide 13.
Like the Lower 48 this segment recovered well from very challenging weather conditions late last year and early in the quarter.
Production for the quarter averaged 220 000 barrels a day which is about 12% higher sequentially.
On our last quarterly call we discussed the startup of Ekofisk South and Jasmine.
Eko South were ramping up volumes in conjunction with drilling activity.
At Jasmine we recovered from some minor startup delays and averaged 25 000 BOE per day for the quarter.
And we brought [indiscernible] Jasmine in March.
We also commissioned and started up a new San Juan Gas Plant at this Irish Sea.
On to our construction activities and nearing completion the Eldfisk II for early 2015 startup.
And also a commissioning is ramping up for the Britannia Long-Term Compression project for startup and the third quarter of this year.
In Poland we continue exploring in the Baltic Basin just to the west of Gdansk.
We completed two vertical wells in sidetracked one of them horizontal during the first quarter.
We’re currently completing the horizontal section with an Eagle Ford style frack.
And we intend to conduct an extended floor test later this year.
As you can see at the bottom left of the chart there’s a heavy turnaround activity planned in the UK during the second and third quarter which I’ll discuss in a bit more detail in a later slide.
So our Europe segment is positioned for growth from high margin production this year.
And finally let’s look at our Asia-Pacific and Middle East segment on Slide 14.
In this segment we produced 319 000 BOE a day 9% higher than the fourth quarter.
And over this period we also saw a 20% increase in high margin and liquids for this segment.
Our 1Q plan turnaround at Train 7 in Qatar was completely ahead of schedule.
In Indonesia we achieved first gas in the South Belut Project in April which is the fifth phase of block B [ph] oil and gas development.
We also achieved first oil in February at Siakap North-Petai and our non operated commissioned project is progressing towards that to open the third quarter of this year.
At Kebabangan our topsides are schedule for sail away in the second quarter.
And we’re on track for first reduction by the end of this year.
And exploration we drilled a successful appraisal well in Malaysia at Limbayong-2.
And we remain encouraged by our findings there.
So there’s clearly a more growth potential in the Malaysia business.
APLNG also remains on track for our mid-2015 startup.
From a combined downstream and upstream basis we were 67% complete by the end of the first quarter.
Our appraisal programs continue in Australia and the Browse Basin and at the Barossa field for well start [ph] in March and April respectively.
Both of these wells should TD [ph] later in the second quarter.
We expect this segment to provide significant production growth over the next couple of years.
Before I move to the next slide let me briefly touch on other international segment.
The key activity in this segment is exploration related.
In Senegal we spudded the first well two weeks ago.
In Angola a rig is now on transit to block 36 and we expect this to spud the Kamush [ph] well late this quarter or early in the third quarter.
I’ll cover the production outlet now on Slide 15.
We showed this slide in our analyst meeting last month.
We slightly exceeded our guidance for first quarter volumes but otherwise our expectations are unchanged.
As you can see we expect production to drop during the second or third quarter due to seasonal maintenance activities across our operations.
And on the left side of the chart is a list of the key turnarounds and tying up entities [ph] for the next two quarters.
This activity will start late in the second quarter beginning in the UK but the majority of our turnaround activity will occur in the third quarter.
And these turnarounds impact almost all of our segments.
The key activities in the third quarter will be in Alaska Canada the UK and the Bayu-Undan field in the Asia Pacific region.
Bayu-Undan is particularly noteworthy as this is a 36-day shutdown that includes brown field activity for the tie-in at two new subsea wells.
By the fourth quarter our seasonal maintenance should be complete and additional projects should be coming on line.
I’m going to expect to exit the year at or above 1.6 million BOE a day.
Full year production guidance for continued operations is 1.51 to 1.55 million BOE a day excluding Libya.
And this is unchanged from a prior guidance and in line with our 3% to 5% production growth target.
At this point the biggest uncertainty in the ranges is startup of our non-operated commissioned project in Malaysia.
I’m going to wrap up my comments with what to watch for in 2014.
There are several activities underway to drive growth.
Major projects startups are expected at Gumusut Foster Creek Phase F Kebabangan and the Britannia long-term compression project.
These are important activities that should impact the 2014 exit ways [ph] and drive 2015 performance.
We also expect to continue growth both in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken relate as some development program details of the recent analyst meeting.
And these are the expectations with this place over the next few years.
We’ll continue our North American unconventional exploration and appraisal programs with the focus on the Permian and Niobrara.
We’ll also test that unconventional plea in Poland which the extended production test that I spoke about.
The company also found and to see additional blocks in Colombia last year with explorational commands in the second half of 2014 to test the prospectivity of the La Luna Shale.
Gulf of Mexico would be – more drilling continues in Tiber Coronado and Deep Nansen.
And we’re also preparing to begin and operate the drilling program late this year or early next year.
Finally as I mentioned earlier we’ll begin explorations drilling in Senegal and Angola this year.
And if successful these programs would be catalysts for growth into the next decade.
So here’s what I hope you’ll hear from our comments today.
2014 is off to a good start.
We still will recover from some weather and startup delays early in the first quarter and exited the quarter in a strong position to deliver on our volume expectations for the year.
Our unconventional programs are performing very well and our major projects are ramping up or progressing towards that top.
We have another year of significant second and third quarter turnaround activity.
But we’re optimistic about achieving our 3% to 5% production growth in the momentum we built to continue that growth into 2015 and beyond.
Our exploration activity is focused on drilling and testing a high quality set of conventional and unconventional prospects.
And there’s sort of a lot to update you on the coming months.
So this ends our prepared remarks and we’ll turn over for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
And our first question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays please go ahead.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Good morning Paul.
Matt on Foster Creek it seems like you [ph] have been facing some operating issue [indiscernible] has been up and the cost has been pretty high.
Can you give us an update what is the game plan and how confident you are that you can return that operation into say a couple of years ago tie off operating cost structure.
Yeah these are short-term measures that we anticipate it would happen.
As these steam chamber [indiscernible] and you expect to see steam oil ratios and [indiscernible] under those circumstances.
But they operate there’s a good plan in place to regain the steam oil ratios that the Foster Creek exhales [ph].
And as we add Foster Creek this [indiscernible] and move the steam from some of the more well developed steam chambers that can use steams.
So we feel pretty confident across the creek that it will return to the high performance that we’ve seen on the past.
Jeff can you give us an update any update at all related to the other sales plan in Canada or for their oil sand.
We’ve said on several occasions that we’ll continue to look for opportunities to liken our position on oil sands.
But that is something that we’re going to watch or some of us state on that process Paul.
And there’s nothing that in our plans for 2014 in that regard.
Can I just sneak a really quick one for Matt.
Okay go ahead.
Man from an M&amp;A point of view looking at your portfolio in the upstream is there any particular location that you think you may want to be more aggressive in acquiring additional acres? You know Paul of course we’re always looking ahead the [indiscernible] to add opportunities to our portfolio.
We’re focused on doing that organically.
And the exploration and teams are out there – all the team looking for a high quality acreage that we can add early in life cycle.
So yeah of course we will.
We always want to take opportunities to strengthen the portfolio.
But it’s all about organic live growth for us.
So there’s no really any particular region or area that you think that you really have a hold and you want to be – substantially step up the land acquisitions strategic.
There’s no region where we [indiscernible] that really we have a particular hole and I wouldn’t want to go in.
And if we have any specifics [indiscernible] looking at.
It wouldn’t be wise to do that.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Hi James.
Oh afternoon actually.
I just wanted to hear if you guys have had any plans on reporting results.
I know during the analyst day you talked about ongoing spacing test into Bakken testing I think down to maybe four middle Bakken wells for spacing unit out there.
Is that an ongoing test? And give a timeframe where you might have results on that.
Yes James we have I think it’s about it operated different pilot operated pilot tests going on in the Bakken in particular.
And we have some partner operated areas in the Bakken are testing different well spacings and different horizons.
And the timeframe it takes a lot of time to really get results that you can feel confident about.
So I would say over the next year or more before we get really definitive results that would drive conclusions on the well density.
Okay that’s great.
And then I just have two kind of the housekeeping types ones on your cost.
Obviously you guys had a pretty good performance this quarter on production and other areas.
But to really jump out in the [ph] SG&amp;A and the net interest numbers I was looking for these on interest now [indiscernible] pay down a bit of debt but I’ve been on to the impression that the capital interest – capitalized interest number is going to come down with cash again out of the portfolio.
Yet the net number was pretty low.
And then just the SG&amp;A numbers.
Is there anything driving those and are those sustainable running rates? James we’re looking at a couple things here.
Hang on a second.
Sure.
What the net is – the net interest number is higher than it was – I’m not sure what really your question is.
And we do expect interest expense to be higher because in effect we’re no longer capitalizing interest and you see that in the first quarter.
Sure.
So I’m not sure I’m following your question there James.
I think I was just looking at the kind of sequentially at the numbers.
I mean I was – yes it was up over Q1 ‘13 – Yes.
I think in Q4 it’s roughly the same number.
And you can just have slight variations during the quarter so.
Okay great.
Then on the G&amp;A number? G&amp;A can also be a little bit lumpy as well quarter-over-quarter.
I think we don’t try to give any guidance separate for production and operating cost and for G&amp;A.
What we said back at our analyst presentation as you recall is that we’ve see the combination of those to being $8.5 billion for this year which is a little bit higher than last year but last year ramping up [ph] with growth.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Jim.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Hey Doug.
Good morning Doug.
Profitability and margins were very high in the quarter and maybe even that a [ph] record level even after normalizing for price as I think Jeff demonstrated.
And on this point I wanted to see if you could comment on couple things first if the trend in cost across the global portfolio what you do think there [ph]? Two your leaping [ph] status in the most recent period and three whether there any other regional profitability mix factors either on the gas side outside just comments [ph] on Lower 48 that stood out in the period? I would say – well we made some – we made some comments about the obvious things.
Price is of course as you point out were big drivers this quarter and in particular natural gas prices.
But underlying the margin growth is still the same thing we’ve been talking about the movement of our portfolio the more liquids into more production in areas where tax rates are generally lower.
And that’s the underlying effect what we said it was still around 5% this quarter.
We’re not having linear volumes [ph] in the portfolio does make a 2% or 3% difference in cash margin see there every year [ph] for us this year.
And of course the fact that we are able to sell gas at strong prices and have bargaining games that help this time as well.
In terms of other impacts we mention that there were some minor impacts on lift timing this year this quarter.
Overall lift timing was a negative on earnings mostly in the Asia Pacific area and it probably impacted Asia Pacific earnings by the order of $40 million to $45 million on – in terms of lift timing and with relatively smaller impacts across the other segments.
But other than those things there wasn’t really anything very anomalous in the – in the numbers.
You asked about kind of trends on cost kind of like on the previous question what we are seeing is cost are going up as production is going up.
But all that is covered by the fact that we’re producing higher value product.
So overall cash margins are going up like we’ve been talking about.
Sure.
And then Matt you talked about Alaska where you guys are obviously one of the leaders up in the state.
And while it might be only – my question is whether or not the improvement in your opportunity set appears likely to be significant enough to be able to stabilize your output up there maybe [ph].
What I’m trying to gauge is whether or not Alaska can end up being significant enough to reps in another way of [ph] growth for the company over a reasonable period of time.
Yes.
I mean we are the biggest producer up there as you know Doug.
And this change in the fiscal regime has opened up opportunities there to stabilize with the claim [ph] from our overall asset-based.
Our asset-base up there declines of about 7.5% a year.
So the development activity that we have going on just – and field development drilling and in the major projects that we are – that we’re kicking off the engineering firm [ph] moving towards sanction we’re hopeful that we should be – that we could stabilize Alaska production.
And dependent on the – how the things basically as we [ph] put these development plans together there’s a possibility that we could see growth in Alaska but even just stabilizing production in an assay of [ph] that size and that maturity would be a pretty good accomplishment.
And I think that’s achievable over the long run.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Doug.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning good afternoon everyone.
Matt thanks to your comments.
I had a kind of high level question about your acceleration the Eagle Ford and maybe the Bakken too.
How representative do you [ph] think you are at the wider competition that you have in those areas? I guess what I’m driving at is to an extent you were slower to ramp up than some of your competitors but have – at the analyst meeting put through a significant increase in your outlook for these areas.
Do you feel like that’s represents what everyone is seeing or that you’re going to be acting and [ph] moving much faster than your competition? And I guess I was also thinking of any geologic implications you think about where you located them [ph] what you’re seeing against what would be the wider trend in the play.
Thanks.
Yes.
That’s a good question Paul.
As you know that’s quite a lot geologic [ph].
But even though all these things are essentially in Shale [ph] there’s quite a lot of variability geologically as you move across the Bakken and as you move across the Eagle Ford.
We think that the acreage that we have in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken is right in the sweet spot [indiscernible] in the Bakken is pretty clearly the sweet spot.
The area where we have [indiscernible] maturity and sickness and pressure and geologic characteristics of our Eagle Ford position is strong.
So I wouldn’t expect our results to be the same as everyone else else’s.
I would expect the – over the – as we continue this development our returns will be higher than the average returns because of the position in the sweet spot.
So you’re right we didn’t pick – we didn’t ramp up the paces last to some other instead [ph].
We did that very intentionally.
We try to do it right and do it fast and we will focus on maximizing value.
And I think that the strategy that we’ve adopted in both of those places has gone a – has gone prove that to be the best long-term strategy.
Which I guess would imply that you’re volume growth in this place will outpace the volume growth in the wider play? I mean it is very dependent on how many rigs people choose to run.
So I couldn’t see if that’s going to be the case for sure.
But the – but we are going to see significant continued growth in both of those places as we showed a couple weeks ago.
I understand contextual what’s [ph] you’re feeling about how others are – others are behaving as regard – in competition with you? You know it’s really hard to say Paul because – I mean it depends on how quickly we’ve been growing so far and then what we tend to intend to do in the rig counts and I don’t even stay into [ph] that.
But the – we are in the middle of the sweet spot in both places [ph] and we are really clear to our consistent strategy on how everyone execute that.
And we’re continuing to see upside in both of those places that we’ll exploit over the next few years.
That’s great.
And then just to close off the follow up is how our cost in particularly in the Eagle Ford but also at the Bakken as regards to the activity that you’re undertaking [ph]? How do we look at that? Thanks a lot.
So is that operating cost or capital cost Paul? Both please but really I was thinking more operating but – Yes.
So our operating cost in both place are really low.
I mean we’re below $5 a barrel in operating cost.
So it’s a very low operating cost.
That’s one other thing that contributes to the high margins of course along with the high liquids yield in both places.
On our capital cost spaces I mean for this – the sort of wells that [ph] we have driven the cost.
So we are seeing a pretty much in line with what the rest of the industry are seeing up there.
So obviously that competitive on operating – I mean capital [ph] cost in both place.
Great [Indiscernible].
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Two questions probably for Matt.
Firstly on the Bakken you said a couple more years before you get [indiscernible] to think about well done is going [ph] to appreciate.
And that’s not too fractures [ph] in probably some of this area is maybe slight off piece [ph] of that.
Just on – what is it that you’re trying to see? Is it the sort of the year two and the year three declines to try and get a sense of the economics of some of these wells? And then also we have data from some of these wells for about year so far? Yes.
That’s right Ed.
When you tighten up the well spacing it’s you saw we would expect [ph] the early period of production to look similar on wells tighter spacing and wider spacing.
So it’s not until the – until you’ve got a sense of the decline characteristics that you can really get full understanding if the wells are interfering with each other and competing for the same oil or if not.
And so that – you’re right you need – you need a few years to get – to get confidence in the – in the overall type of characteristics as you tighten up.
You got to be careful not to load [ph] the pilot test to flatter to deceive because in the early days you do expect to see similar performance from wells on tighter spacing.
So you do – that’s why obviously and then [ph] we need some time to make sure that we are – that we’re actually developing incremental reserves and having incremental values of tighten well spacing up.
So a little bit premature to have your wells where we can [ph] have confidence in? I think so.
And then on the Permian I mean one of the debates in obviously in the refining space is there’s super light [ph] crudes that are coming out of the Shales.
Obviously you have some of that in the Eagle Ford with condensates.
You’re doing that test in the Delaware basin and also in the Midland basin.
So I’m just wondering if there’s any differences in terms of the – I mean obviously people quote crude NGLs and gas but they probably don’t speak enough about the quality of the crudes that are coming out.
Can you give us some color on what you’re seeing in terms of those tests [ph] because obviously it will affect the infrastructure that’s required and also the pricing of the molecules? Yes.
Yes.
The – you know this may not a very satisfactory answer Ed because as you go through this 500 feet of sort of stack opportunity that exists in the Delaware basin in particular you get a very significant variation from some – in some areas let’s say gas with a high liquid yield and some areas let’s say is a relatively low API oil in other areas you got a strong condensate yield.
It’s going to be very variable.
But it’s clear that over the long run there’s going to be quite a bit of gas NGLs condensate and this is going to grow in production in the Permian business as a whole.
And as our understanding and the industry’s understanding will matures that implications will what sort of [ph] off peak and the infrastructure requirements that are [indiscernible] fully evacuate all of these products from the Permian area.
And let more in the Delaware than the Permian? The – [Indiscernible].
– but even in the Midland basin too there’s going to be – there’s going to be some significant variation there.
But I think – my sense there’s a wider variation in the Permian than the Delaware but time will tell.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Hi folks.
Thanks for taking the question.
Back at the Analyst Day you kind of outlined the production profile where the US unconventionals were increasing and it seems like you were declining Europe and Western Canada if I’m not mistaken to kind of accommodate to where overall things remained pretty much in lined with your previous guidance.
My question I guess is what happens to those European and Western Canadian project? Is that simply being differed? And I guess where I’m wondering is do we have potential into ‘15 for there to be an opportunity to maybe getting [ph] toward the upper end of the 35% range on production? Yes.
We’re very careful that if we are going to be just skeptical in an area [ph] that is deferring we’re not going to lose opportunities.
So the Western Canada we’ve got huge infantry of opportunities there with a high liquid yields.
And the European projects that we spoke about those are the deferrals [ph].
So both of those would give those areas for example are retaining opportunities to add growth in the later part of the – in 2017 and beyond.
So I think that we’re making – we’re making pretty judicious capital allocation decisions that balance the short and long-term growth potential in the portfolio.
Okay.
So that’s outer year not necessarily next year then it sounds like? Yes probably.
But every year we saw – we look at the – we look at the portfolio.
One of the beauties of that portfolio is the level of flexibility that we have and the level of optionality that exists.
But the – but in general the ones that we’re talking about are probably more of that than [ph] opportunities to continue growth beyond 2017 but time – but we’ll see yes.
Okay.
Thanks for that Matt.
The second one I apologize if this is a little bit detailed but I just want to make sure we have steep [ph] from a modeling stand point.
The K&amp;I Alaska [ph] LNG from a reporting stand point I’m assuming obviously the earnings from that will simply drop into Alaska.
But are there corresponding volumes associated with that? I guess I’m just trying to understand if this is just going to be simply margin expansion or if there will be both production and earnings increases.
So there will be both but the production growth is relatively small.
So each of those LNG tankers that we will load in K&amp;I [ph] are about – contain about 2.7 high BCF of gas.
And our expectation is that about 40% of that are soon will be [ph] equity gas ConocoPhillips equity gas and then there will be third party gas that we’re moving for those tankers as well.
So there will be some production growth but annualized over the years relatively modest full [ph] [indiscernible] something like that over the year.
But the – but we do get – we do get very good margins good value from that business.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Blake.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for getting me on.
Jeff can I start with the DD&amp;A guidance for the year is that really going to be Bakken loaded compared to what you’ve done in Q1? I think in your analyst that you said [indiscernible] and one or two others might be responsible for that.
What should we think of that as a unit DD&amp;A [indiscernible] let’s say at the end of the year when the production is online? So we give guidance Doug of $8.5 billion per DD&amp;A for the year.
And what you’ve seen we came in like one nine or so [ph] in the first quarter.
It can be back in load and really a few things drive that.
One is I guess we’re starting up whether it was [ph] ramping up in the first quarter that’s one of the thought things [ph] causing increases in DD&amp;A.
We’re going to continue to see increases in unconventional production in our Lower 48 as we go through the year.
That will cause DD&amp;A to increase.
But probably the largest single item is the when it moves to start up [ph] which is more of a third quarter item for us which causes that DD&amp;A to be back and loaded.
In terms of unit rates it’s – you’ll see that go a little bit higher.
I don’t have those just right at the top of my head here.
But we still think the 8.5 number is the right number for the year.
And then you’ll see that – you’ll see that back and loaded a little bit higher numbers in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarter.
[Indiscernible] now Jeff.
So Q1 was about 13 in change [ph].
And the average would be about 15 in change [ph].
So should we think something like $16 $17 kind of number in Q4 or that might be Jeff? Kind of order of magnitude.
I think the way I tend to think about it more is that the DD&amp;A doesn’t – it doesn’t apply to all of our production since you get equity barrels as well.
So you got in our portfolio about 200 000 barrels a day of equity accounting barrels which don’t have DD&amp;A associated with them.
So I would say our DD&amp;A is probably more like 15 15.5 right now.
And that you may see that drift up a little bit as you go into the third and fourth quarters.
Okay.
Thanks.
[Indiscernible] significant volumes in the fourth quarter in particular.
Got it.
Second one my follow up if I may and just a quick one for Matt.
Matt over the years it has been a debate between operators in the Eagle Ford on how you choke your wells.
We’ve seen obviously [indiscernible] with some very very strong rates and there obviously in our well pressure part the reservoir [ph].
There is others like pioneer I guess which are a little bit sort of view [ph] and not [indiscernible] as you guys are big advocate of kind of choking back to routine reservoir [ph] quality.
So I’m just wondering if you could show us how are you approaching that in terms of how you think about the well race that [ph] you’re getting at? Are you choking Bakken or you’re trying to manage towards out longer term recovery or how do you think about it and I’ll leave it there [ph] there? Thanks.
Yes.
So we’re more than – in the latter camp of [ph] managing the early rates.
And that’s driven by a few different things.
The – we don’t build our single well facilities so that they can handle a very peak rate [ph].
So you’re going to only going to have [ph] a few weeks or a few months even.
And so that’s a reason for doing it.
We want to make sure that we keep all the propane in the whole [ph].
We don’t want to be having such a high draw than that were [ph] damage in our completions.
And so we do choke that way significantly.
I mean in the early month we can have tube and head pressures over 7 000 psi choke back.
And then – and so we manage it to make sure that we’re not oversizing the facilities and to make sure that we’re damaging the completion.
And there are some evidence that that’s the right long-term thing to do as well.
You’re not only start operating [ph] from an operation’s perspective so that’s the approach that we take.
Is that significant in terms of the upfront [indiscernible] does that slow you down quite a bit for a meaningful period or is it not really that material and you’re just trying to get a feel for what your decline terms might look like on as well? So we can – on some of our wells we’ll only be maintaining essentially flat production for several months and so over those months you’re choking the reservoir back.
So it has implications for the first year average rate.
And then so there does have implications for the observed decline rate.
I think that’s where you’re getting at.
Yeah [indiscernible] right.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon Faisel.
Good afternoon Faisel.
Hi.
Just going back to your comments on the Alaska LNG project you talked about sort of enabling legislation passed in April.
Is there any change from the comments in those major analyst meeting in terms of sort of the type of spend pattern you would see for this project over the next few years with this enabling legislation haven’t been passed? No we were anticipating that the legislature would support the governor’s approach to this.
So our view of the spend profile for APLNG hasn’t really changed.
We were hopeful that we’ll get to move in to pre-feed [ph].
And we’ve already selected a high-level concept and I think I’ve discussed in previous calls.
But we need to get in to pre-feed [ph] hopefully in the second quarter here and that will last for over 18 months.
And then we’ll move in to the feed program which will take two or three years.
So really the sanction of the project we’re probably looking out to 2017 or 2018 before we would actually sanction the full scale project.
It takes about a time to [indiscernible] the engineering of something of that sort of scale as you can imagine.
Okay go it.
And then just wanted to see if there’s any sort of re-through [ph] for guys drilling program and go low [ph] with the sort of recent results by the Cobalt on this Orca DST is there anything that changes? So is there anything in that data that changes sort of your outlook for the prospects you have at the end of this year? Not really.
I mean the way we’ve been encouraged I mean by the results for the other operators we’ve had in the area.
We picked up acreage before the play had been tested.
The results we’ve had sort of seeing other operators and then sort of giving us encouragement that we’re in the right part of the play and we’ll know that before we get to the end of this.
We’ll have the first well done hopefully by before the end of the year.
But no no change in our views really as to what the materiality and prospect of [indiscernible] in our Angola position.
Okay just last question from me.
On APLNG you’d given some detail on that at the analyst meeting but in terms of the progress on that facility is it still – are all the major sort of components for that facility sort of coming online and are the producing wells sort of also ramping up the way you anticipate? I just want to make sure that there’s sort of no risk here that this – the projects or the slips that we’ve seen with a few others in that part of the world.
No we’re still pretty confident we’re hitting our milestones.
The actual LNG plant itself on Curtis Island I’m not sure if we’ve shipped all of the modules already but if we haven’t it’s pretty much all of the modules so we’re on track.
We’ve built these plants before so we feel pretty confident that we’re on schedule there.
And the upstream part of the project we still have a lot of work to do there.
Remember we’ve got a lot of rigs running.
We’re commissioning our gas plants our handling facilities.
But we’re still confident that the middle of 2015 we should be – have the LNG plant itself the first train [ph] maybe and we should have the gas that we need to get that fully commissioned.
So I would say that we feel that the project is on track.
Understood.
Thank you for the time appreciate it.
Thanks Faisel.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Reid of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning or good afternoon as the case may be.
Hello Roger.
Hello Roger.
Jeff a question for you.
I look at Q1 results and obviously we can strip out the payment from Canada.
We can strip out the working capital advantage here in the quarter yet even after you do that free cash flow is essentially breakeven which given how you structured the company for the next several years that’s a real positive sign.
As you look at the projects that are coming on line kind of the midnight of the 3% to 5% volume growth and 3% to 5% margin does a quarter like this indicate any sort of maybe you get there sooner in terms of the free cash flow matching or free cash flow – cash flow out matching cash flow in and getting to sort of a neutral or slightly positive free cash flow situation? Yes in that we had a quarter with very strong pricing.
We had Brent near 110 still and WTI above 100 and very strong North American natural gas prices of course which helps our cash flow numbers.
I think the way we like to think about it though is we’ve got the growth and production and margins happening which are going to get us to that neutrality point across a wide range of prices and how quickly we get there can be influenced by prices.
But by – as we talked about it in the analyst presentation by 2017 we’ve added considerable production at high margins and we’re going to have the size of cash flows that are going – across a pretty wide range of commodity prices are going to get us to that neutrality point.
Yeah that could back up to 16 if prices were higher.
But we don’t count on having prices like we saw on the first quarter long term in order to – as the basis for our plans.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then from a strictly operational standpoint heavy turnarounds last year in the summer and North Sea again this year maybe Matt the question is for you is is that going to be typical for your North Sea production over the next year couple of years or are you getting pass sort of a pig in the python moment here two big years of maintenance in the North Sea in the summer time? It’s more of the pig in the python thing for the North Sea.
We had a huge turnaround last year in Norway the biggest we’ve ever had.
Yeah there’s no significant turnaround going on in Norway this year or next year because we have [indiscernible] we have Norway in a three-year cycle.
But with some short downtime at Eldfisk to tie in for the new Eldfisk II project but it’s a handful of days from that.
This year’s turnaround it’s a little bit less than last year.
I think it’s about 3% less in overall turnaround activity.
But you’re right these have been two relatively big years in turnarounds and that’s somewhat anomalous from that perspective.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
In your exploration section you have a pretty extensive set of upcoming catalyst and I know that historically you’ve talked about kind of shifting away from high-impact wildcatting.
Is 2014 somewhat of an exception or do you think you’ll continue this exploration run rate especially Deepwater going forward? No I think we’ll continue it.
I mean there are some really interesting wells that we’re drilling this year.
But no our – we’ve built an exploration portfolio that has a good mix of unconventional and conventional opportunities with the – as a portfolio that allows us to do this.
So a significant testing this year but continuing that over the next several years in the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere.
I mean we’re continuing to add to the exploration portfolio.
So I’m hopeful that we’ll have the 2015 and the years beyond that we’ll still have an exciting exploration and appraisal program to exploit.
So in the context of kind of flattish CapEx in total do you anticipate that your offshore spending or just globally will be up year over year in 2014 or –? No well on average I will say that it’s about 15% of our overall capital about 2.5 billion a year.
And some years a bit higher.
This year it will be about 2.1 billion for example.
So it’ll be – it’ll fluctuate from year to year but it’s going to average I think around that 2.5 billion for the E&amp;A [ph] program overall.
And of course the split between conventional unconventional Deepwater and shallower [ph] water that’s clearly going to fluctuate as the best prospects mature and we get to the drilling phase of the lifecycle.
But on average about 2.5 billion a year.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Pavel.
We’ll take one more question if there is one and then cut it off here.
Our last question is Asik Sen [ph] of Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
And so I have a question on Malaysia.
And Malaysia is a decent part of the growth equation over the next 12 to 18 months driven by Gumusut and KBB.
How much Malaysian volume is embedded in the 2014 production guidance and could you provide – what is the incremental contribution from Malaysia expected in 2015? Off the top of my head I’m not 100% sure for the component of 2014.
I would say it’s around 20 000 barrels a year [ph] for 2014 and that would be higher but I can’t remember how much higher in 2015 maybe another 20 by the time we get to 2015.
So as I mean that’s a significant part of the growth and a high margin growth is – but how much we’ve produced this year in Malaysia is very dependent upon when Gumusut starts up the – but it is a significant part of the growth and it’s good high-margin growth.
And so we have S&amp;P [ph] on production.
We have the Gumusut LA [ph] production system [indiscernible] now.
We’ll bring on the fuel and flow production system for Gumusut and hopefully in the third quarter here we’ll bring on Kebabangan and late in the fourth quarter we still have the Malakai project in execution just now.
And we’ve got four or five other discoveries in the area that we’re moving forward through the appraisal and engineering stage.
So it’s a good piece of business for us and it’s going to contribute to both our production and margin growths over the next few years.
Thanks.
Thanks Asik [ph] appreciate it.
And why don’t we call it good day.
By all means call IR if you have any follow-up questions.
Thank you so much for joining us everybody and thank you Christine.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine and thanks to our participants for your interest.
We know it’s a very busy day.
On today’s call Ryan Lance our CEO and Chairman will provide a very brief overview of our strong operational performance for the quarter.
Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer will then address the financial results for the quarter.
And finally Matt Fox our EVP of E&amp;P will cover the operational highlights and our production outlook for the rest of the year.
Finally we’ll turn the call over to you for Q&amp;A.
We would ask respectfully that you try to limit your questions to one plus a follow up and then get back in the queue if you have additional questions.
We will make some forward-looking statements this morning and obviously the risks and uncertainties in our future performance are described in the Safe Harbor statements shown on slide two of today’s presentation materials as well as in our periodic filings with the SEC.
That’s also available from our website along with our GAAP and non-GAAP reconciliations and supplemental data.
With that I’m gone turn the call over to Ryan.
Thank you Ellen and let me extent my thanks to all of you who also joined the call today and for your interest in the company.
We’re at the halfway mark in 2014 and I’m pleased to say that our company’s performance is progressing consistent with our plans this year.
Top line growth and margin expansion are showing up in our performance and we’re delivering on our commitments.
The second quarter was certainly a volatile one geopolitically and there was a lot of sector activity on the domestic front all of which we of course watch closely but we continue to take what we believe is a sound long-term approach to the business.
So we’re staying the course and sticking to our plans.
And our goal as we’ve mentioned numerous times is to deliver predictable consistent performance and I think we achieved that again in the second quarter.
Operationally the business ran very well.
We produced 1.556 million BOE per day from continuing operations excluding Libya which represented growth of 6.5% year-over-year.
Now adjusted for downtime in Libya we grew underlying volumes 4% this quarter compared to one year ago.
And this performance exceeded our prior guidance which Matt will cover a bit more detail in his comments.
But our growth came from the several places notably the Eagle Ford and the Bakken but as well as recent startups in Europe Asia Pacific and in oil sands.
And the work continues to bring additional major projects online later this year and into 2015 and 2016.
Now if I switch financially the quarter was also very strong.
Adjusted earnings were $2 billion or $1.61 per share that’s up 14% year-over-year.
Our cash flow from operations including the equity affiliate distributions funded our capital and dividend for the first half of the year.
That leaves our cash position relatively unchanged from year-end 2013.
And we’re also seeing the visible margin growth and that should accelerate later in the year and into 2015 as our volumes continue to increase in high margin areas.
Now strategically while we’re focused on our high value asset base that has a lot of running room we’re also looking to add organic options and choices through explorations.
Today in addition to our unconventional and Gulf of Mexico exploration activities we’re drilling in Senegal and Angola.
Now these two areas have higher risk but also higher reward if successful.
And we recently took a position in a large exploration concession offshore Nova Scotia.
And yesterday we announced the completion of our sale of our Nigerian business.
And that’s a big milestone that completes the strategic divestiture program we announced two years ago.
That program has generated nearly $14 billion of proceeds for our company.
With these divestitures behind us we’re now fully focused on executing our growth plans.
And finally earlier this month we approved a dividend increase of 5.8%.
Giving back capital to our shareholders remains a tough priority and we believe an attractive dividend is the key part of our investment offering.
Now that’s kind of quick recap of the quarter.
But let me just recap the key messages; the business is on track we’re delivering on our commitments and are building a strong momentum for the second half of the year and beyond.
So with those brief opening comments now let me turn it over to Jeff for a financial review of the company.
Thanks Ryan.
I’ll begin by reviewing the second quarter’s results which are add on slide six.
As you’ll see it was a straightforward quarter overall.
Production volumes exceeded guidance and the balance sheet remained strong.
Looking at earnings second quarter 2014 adjusted earnings were $2 billion or a $1.61 per diluted share 14% above last year’s second quarter.
Second quarter earnings are shown in the chart in the lower right – segment earnings are shown the chart on the lower right.
The financial details of each segment can be found in the supplemental data that accompany this morning’s release but I’ll highlight a few items for you.
The Lower 48 segment earnings this quarter largely reflected ongoing volume increases lead by Eagle Ford and Bakken which contributed to a 22% increase and Lower 48 liquids production year-over-year.
This benefit was partially offset by wider differentials and $85 million of higher exploration expenses as a result of the Coronado Miocene appraisal well and Deep Nansen wildcat being deemed as non-commercial.
Canada continues to have a very solid year.
This quarter’s earnings reflected strong bitumen prices and steady production growth.
Alaska performed in-line with expectations.
Europe production benefited this quarter from continued major project ramp and better than planned turnaround activity.
Sequentially earnings in Europe were negatively impacted by lift timing increased maintenance cost and lower natural gas prices.
Our Asia Pacific in the lease segments continues to perform well.
Earnings this quarter benefited from some favorable lift timing versus the first quarter.
One quick note on our other international segment effective this quarter we moved our Latin American and Poland operations into this other international segment.
And our corporate segment results were also in line with guidance.
Lastly you’ll see from our earnings release this morning that we have reaffirmed our prior guidance for capital DD&amp;A in our corporate segment.
Exploration expense guidance of $1.5 billion is also unchanged and includes risks dryhole expense.
The outlook for production and SG&amp;A cost is up modestly from our prior guidance to a range of $8.7 billion to $8.9 billion as compared to the original guidance of $8.5 billion.
If you will turn to slide seven I’ll cover our production results for the quarter.
As you know our convention for production is continued operations excluding Libya.
On this basis our second quarter averaged 1.556 million BOE per day which compares to 1.461 million per day in the second quarter of 2013.
This is a headline increase of 95 000 BOE per day or 6.5%.
2.5% of this growth was due to lower downtime and the 4% or 60 000 BOE per day represents organic growth.
This 60 000 BOE per day of growth was essentially all from increased liquids production with the largest source of growth being the Lower 48 unconventionals.
Declines in North America gas production were offset by increases in international gas production.
I’ll review margin growth next on slide eight.
This slide shows changes in tax margins from second quarter 2013 to second quarter 2014 and also on a sequential basis.
On the left side of the chart is the margins on an as-reported basis which were up 11% year-over-year.
And are on the right our margins on a price-normalized basis.
So on a price-normalized basis margins improved 2.4% year-over-year.
Among the factors influencing margins in the second quarter were positive impacts from lower production in Libya and a positive impact from increased liquids production in the Lower 48 and adverse impacts from increased cost levels and wider differentials.
As we’ve said previously this metric will tend to be volatile on a quarter-by-quarter basis but we expect margins to improve as we continue to shift production to higher value products and to places with more favorable fiscal terms.
Once the heavy maintenance is completed in the third quarter we expect to see stronger underlying margin in the fourth quarter as higher margin volumes grow.
And this set us well to achieve full year 3% to 5% margin growth in 2014.
Finally I’ll review our cash flow waterfall for the first half of the year on the next slide.
As Ryan mentioned we remained cash neutral over the first half of the year.
We began with $6.5 billion of cash and short term investments.
We generated $8.6 billion from operating activities and also added $1.3 billion from the SCCL distribution earlier in the year.
With this we funded our capital program and dividend and ended the first half of the year with $6.4 billion in cash in short term investments.
The recent Nigeria closing will add net proceeds of approximately $900 million in the third quarter.
Recall approximately $550 million of the $1.4 billion of sales proceeds were already collected and included in our cash balance.
I’ll wrap up the review of our financial performance by noting that we continue to have a strong balance sheet which gives us significant flexibility to execute on our investment plans.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Matt for an update on our operations.
Thanks Jeff.
As Ryan and Jeff already mentioned the business is running well and we are delivering on our organic growth goals.
We exceeded our production guidance in the second quarter across several of our business segments but particularly in the Lower 48.
Some of this high performance is probably not repeatable and I’ll explain that in a minute or so.
More importantly once we are through our annual turnaround activity in the third quarter we expect to accelerate our growth in the latter part of the year and that’s going to position us for strong 2015 and beyond.
So it’s an exciting time for the business.
Please turn to slide 11 for an update on our Lower 48 and Canada segments.
In the Lower 48 second quarter production averaged 540 000 BOE per day.
That’s a 10% overall increase from the second quarter of last year and represents a 30% increase in crude oil production over the same period.
Sequentially volumes grew 33 000 BOE per day or 7%.
And the biggest contributors to growth in the quarter were the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
The Eagle Ford grew 12% sequentially from an average of 140 000 BOE per day to 157 000.
We experienced a strong second quarter as we brought on a higher than average number of wells in March commissioned a number of compressor projects and experienced flush production coming from the recovery of first quarter weather impact.
The remainder of the 2014 will see a flatter production profile as we continue to move to multi well pad drilling that in the medium term slows down the number of new wells coming on production.
But production from those wells will start to show up late this year and in to next year.
The Bakken was up 19% from last quarter averaging 51 000 BOE per day compared to 43 000 in the first quarter.
This growth was helped by flush production and backlog reduction.
We expect to have multi pad drilling effects and we are anticipating winter weather impacts in the fourth quarter.
So the rate of growth will slow in the second half of the year.
The net effect of this is we are still on track to achieve our 2014 volume targets for both the Eagle Ford and Bakken but we do expect rates to flatten in third and fourth quarters and then begin to ramp up as we head in to 2015.
Unconventional appraisal also continues in the Permian and the Niobrara.
And we remain optimistic about these emerging plays.
In addition to our unconventional activities appraisal continues this year in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico on all four of our significant discoveries Shenandoah Tiber Gila and Coronado.
Our Canada business also performed very well operationally during the second quarter.
We produced 284 000 of BOE per day which includes a 19% increase on liquids production year-over-year.
In the oil sands Foster Creek Phase F is expected to start producing in the fourth quarter of this year and Surmont Phase 2 remains on schedule for flushing in mid-2015.
Our Western Canada program continues to deliver good returns with the large identified drilling inventory and we continue to explore and appraise our unconventional plays in the Duvernay and Montney.
On the exploration front we acquired a 30% working interest and approximately 5 million gross acres off the Coast of Nova Scotia and drilling is expected to begin there in late 2015.
Next I’ll cover our Alaska and Europe segments on slide 12.
Alaska average production was a 193 000 BOE per day in line with the expectations.
At CD5 the Alpine Center facility – project has begun and fabrication is now underway.
This project remains on track for start-up in late 2015.
In the second quarter we resumed export from our Kenai LNG plant in April and have already sold two cargos.
We are also making good progress at our Drill Site 2S [inaudible] one and 1H NEWS projects.
1H NEWS is the third new project we’ve initiated since the passage of Alaska Production Act last spring.
On June 30 the AKLNG parties executed a joint venture agreement.
In addition we have jointly applied for an export license from the Department of Energy.
So we are making progress in the technical work to assess the feasibility of this project as a way to monetize the significant North Slope gas resource base.
Finally we recently executed a contract for a new build rig to begin drilling in 2016.
One last point on Alaska as you probably know Alaskans will vote in August on whether or not to approve the More Alaska Production Act commonly known as SP21.
And we certainly hope the legislation prevails.
We believe it’s important for continued oil and gas development in Alaska.
We have identified and are actively developing opportunities for growth.
Moving on to Europe second quarter production averaged 213 000 barrels a day up 23% year-over-year reflecting major projects start ups Eldfisk II sail Jasmine and EIS as well as lower downtime than in the second quarter of last year.
During the second quarter of this year we completed our J-Area turnaround work ahead of schedule and brought online the J-12 exploration well.
The Britannia Long-Term Compression project is on track to start up later this quarter.
Sail away and installation of the topsides was completed to Eldfisk II and the project remains on schedule for early 2015 start-up.
With significant turnarounds underway in the UK this quarter this will impact third quarter volumes as we expected but overall the Europe segment is operating well and remains on schedule to deliver on its growth commitments.
Now let’s review our Asia Pacific and Middle East segment and our other international segments on slide 13.
In APME we produced 323 000 BOE per day in the second quarter roughly flat with last year.
But the segment remains positioned for high margin growth in the second half of the year and in to 2015.
Our partner operated Gumusut project is progressing towards first oil late in the third quarter.
In June topside sailed away for our Kebabangan project and was successfully installed and we remain on track for first production there in the fourth quarter.
At APLNG the first [conderbrie] gas processing facility started up this quarter and that was an important milestone for the upstream project.
On a combined downstream and upstream basis this project is now about 75% completed and remains on schedule for a mid-2015 start up.
Finally we continue to evaluating opportunities with ongoing appraisal offshore in Australia at Poseidon and Barossa.
In our other international segment the key 2014 activities are exploration related.
Currently we’re drilling the [Camosh] well in Block 36 in Angola and the [FAN] well in Senegal.
We expect to have some initial drilling results in these wells later in the year.
In Poland we recently safely completed a 25 stage 7.5 million pound hydraulics stimulation of the [Loblewo] well and will short list the well on an expanded floor test.
And in Colombia we expect to begin exploration drilling in the La Luna Shale later this year.
Our volume outlook is shown on slide 14.
So this is our typical chart of quarterly volume guidance for continuing operations excluding Libya.
The first and second quarter represent actuals and the third and fourth quarter show our expected ranges which are unchanged from prior guidance.
However our full year range has narrowed and the midpoint has increased to reflect a strong operational performance year-to-date.
As expected third quarter production dropped primarily due to customer planned downtime and this year the key area for schedule turnarounds include Alaska Canada the UK and [inaudible] Importantly the – shutdown will take about 36 days will include brownfield activity for the tie-in of two new subsea wells that should come on in 2015.
We expect to achieve a strong finish to the year with an exit rate of over 1.6 million BOE per day.
By the fourth quarter our turnaround should be complete and several additional incremental projects should come online in the UK Malaysia and oil sands.
In addition to these we should have ramped gas sales to QC LNG in Australia which are scheduled to commence in the fourth quarter.
The bottom line is we expected to deliver 3% to 5% production growth this year with strong momentum going into 2015.
So this concludes my comments and I’ll turn back to Ryan for closing remarks.
Thank you Matt.
So our story this quarter is really no difference than our previous several quarters.
We’re focused on delivering our stated goals of 3% to 5% volume and margin growth while returning capital to our shareholders through an attractive dividend.
Our capital plans are on track cash flow neutrality is getting closer and we continue to create options and choices to sustain our long term success.
So we’re following the plan and the path that we laid out over two years ago and it’s working.
So with those comments I’ll turn it over back to the operator and we’ll take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks everybody.
If I could start with one on the U.S.
Onshore I appreciate the clarity on the trajectory over the second half of the year.
But I guess if we look at the Eagle Ford and the Bakken I know you’re quite active in both in both spacing pilots and then the Eagle Ford as well with the upper Eagle Ford there can you – any the comments and what you seen so far and what the trends are in that direction? So we’re still executing those pilot tests and we announced earlier this year that we had enough evidence accumulated to go to an atrophical and 80 acre high low development lower part of the Eagle Ford.
So we’re implementing that now.
And we’re continuing the pilot pass looking at the upper Eagle Ford and looking at tighter spacing there.
And the same comments really apply in the Bakken we’re still looking at the opportunities to tighten up well spacing and other layers but there’s nothing really new to report there Ryan this quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then if I could maybe one follow up on the cash margin trends I mean there was a slight tick and I realize this is on quarter basis it’s pretty dangerous but in slight down tick 2Q where there mix issues can we think about – I guess how mix shift affected us was that a result of some of cost increases that we saw in the quarter and looking forward over the rest of the year with the heavy turnaround schedule in 3Q how would you expect trends to go? Yeah I think you have the correct observations there Ryan.
The mix shift continues to be a pretty substantial positive for our cash margins.
And what we saw this quarter is that was offset somewhat by wider differentials that we saw across our portfolio.
When we look at cash margins we do price normalization based on how much market prices have moved and when we don’t see the same kind of movement in realized prices that we saw in market prices that has adverse impacts on cash margins and that was the case this quarter when we saw some wider differentials across the portfolio.
And we did see some level of higher cost as well but mix shift is still long term what’s driving higher cash margins.
We’re going to continue to see that trend develop.
I think your observation and maybe this can be volatile from quarter to quarter is something that we’re going to continue emphasize.
But if you look over the whole year as we mentioned earlier we are on track to be in 3% to 5 % margin gross range on a price normalized basis.
That’s good.
Ryan your comments on the cost increase side on the cost – was some of that driven by just the fact that you guys have raised production guidance a little bit with higher production has brought some little bit higher cost or was it all inflation? There is a bit of both of those and if you think about what we’ve done with cost guidance overall.
We started the year with a cost guidance of $8.5 billion.
That compares to a number that was more like about 8.25 or so last year.
So we increased our cost about equivalent to what we’re projecting production growth.
And we’re refining a little bit higher production growth and just a little bit higher cost than what we’ve seen before but not any one particular item that we can point to on cost but cost are generally a couple of percent higher than what we thought at the beginning of the year.
Great I appreciate that.
I leave it there.
Thanks Ryan.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Folks good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was curious.
Some of your peers in the Eagle Ford have applied and received permits for exporting condensate and I am curious if you can comment as to whether for one you have applied for a similar permit and if not do you think that would be something that could benefit your realizations in the basin? Yeah.
Thanks Blake.
We’re aware of what a lot of people are doing on the export.
We’ve been out pretty publicly as a company supporting and advocating on the half of not only the condensate exports but the crude oil export is well which we think the condensate solves a very very small problem.
The larger issue we are having in North America is growing light oil production and the feasibility or the capacity being used up in the refining sector to really absorb that creating some of the differential issues that Jeff talked about and we have been facing back.
But we follow it pretty closely.
Right now we’re getting most of our condensate to the Gulf Coast putting it on ships and getting it around.
We don’t see the – back but we certainly we watch it pretty closely and if we think there is an advantage to doing that we’d be in talking with the Department of Commerce as well.
Okay great.
Second question this is probably a long shot but in the past you had used proceeds from asset divestitures to buy back stock fully appreciate that you are kind of past that program.
But at least looking first half of the year you’re technically cash flow neutral and I am just curious if there would be any consideration to maybe use these proceeds to buy back some additional stock? Yeah.
No thanks Blake.
I appreciate it.
I think as I said before we are kind of executing the plan we laid out and that plan from a couple of years ago we knew we would be in a little bit shorter cash flow neutrality but we grow into that by 2016.
So we’re really using the cash on the balance sheet to fund the programs that we’ve got.
We made those assumptions of modest commodity prices as commodity prices has maybe been a little bit higher than our expectation it’s freed up little bit cash but it’s really gone to our investment program and into the extent we fully fund all of our high quality investment programs we will consider share buyback at that point in time.
But right now it’s being used to fund our dividend and our capital program.
Thank you Ryan.
Thanks Blake.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Could you talk – hey guys – your CapEx is high relative to the $16 billion you have guided it to on an annual run-rate could you talk about whether you attempted to spend a little more given things going for the wells you and I particularly I noticed the exploration expense is up so whether or not that that you may be spending a bit more on exploration given that as I said things are going well.
Thanks.
So our CapEx for the year is running pretty much on track with our guidance.
We have guided to $16.7 billion for the year and we are I think we are $8.1 billion though half of the year so little bit less than the CapEx base.
We think we are on pace for about $16.7 billion for the year on capital.
Are you going to keep that flat going forward? It was – I mean I am still working I guess back on the old number $16 billion is the run rate that we were working towards when you started the… Yeah as we talked about at our analyst presentation in April I think we see capital in kind of $16.5 billion to $17 billion range for the next few years.
Yeah I think that what I am trying to drive at is really the exploration program and whether or not you are happy with how much is being spent there and whether or not you would spending more? Yeah I would say Paul we are taking advantage of some opportunities.
We talked about Nova Scotia we are drilling now in Angola and Senegal both.
I kind view sort of the capital the $16 billion that we have talked is kind of running this year at about $16.7 billion as we said earlier at the Analyst Meeting but that’s looking at opportunities that we have in the portfolio and some of the extra cash we are getting from the higher commodity prices and deploying that in the places we think are adding value both in a little bit faster pace in the Eagle Ford Bakken and some of the exploration that we are doing around the world.
Yeah and that’s Gulf of Mexico? Matt Fox Yeah so we have an appraised program going there Paul in all of their existing discoveries and that’s what dominates our exploration capital for this in the Gulf of Mexico.
Okay I get it.
I’m just trying to really focus on the idea that we want to keep capital down but I understand that particularly in the [Guam] that was potential to spend more on an outright exploration.
You kind of successfully close the – keeping on cash flow you successfully lose the Nigeria deal which I think was pretty much last one if I am not wrong of the previous program.
Is there potential for you to further improve the cash balances by more – another around of major disposal.
Thanks and I’ll leave it there.
Thank you.
Yeah no I think yeah in terms of the announced sort of large disposition plans Nigeria really completes that what we talked about when we spun the company a couple of years ago.
As I tell people we continue to look at the portfolio and quite a high grade it is opportunities present themselves and we will continue to look at that.
But I don’t see another major capital disposition program or announcement that you see coming us but we will be constantly looking at trying the high grade portfolio and clean up the bottom end and focus all of our investments in the top end of the portfolio.
That really is really is driving the growth and the higher margins and the returns.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
In Australia it appears that exploration or maybe appraisal success has continued recently near the [inaudible] Discovery which I think Matt might have alluded to and on this point I want to see if there are any updates there and also where the one type of development is more likely then another meaning is this hopefully going to eventually feed the LNG facility nearby.
So just a general update on that situation is what we are after? Okay thanks Doug.
We are getting close to completing our appraisal program in the Poseidium complex and we designed that program to give the information us that need to do exactly what you are Doug to make sure that we are optimizing the development plan for Poseidium and we have the same goal in mind on the exploration that we just commenced in the Barossa area.
So basically this appraised activity is designed to establish of course the best backfill opportunity for the Duvernay LNG plant for example.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning good afternoon.
Just actually a quick forward on Australia I mean how much gas do you think you’d be able to get over and above APLNG from sort of sales to other project there I think you mention QCLNG gas any sort of rough order magnitude? Well I mean it depends very much when these projects – I mean we don’t tend to take the opportunity to sell [ramped] gas to those projects but the exact magnitude of that will be dependent upon the timing of those stack ups relative to our stack-up.
So it’s hard to put a number on that just now.
But we have the capacity available to provide those ramp gas sales when the opportunity arises.
All right I am going to get to something more closer to whom but any progress on Venezuela or timing around that? Yeah on Venezuela we are in discussions with the Tribunal both sides ourselves and the Venezuelans are now putting in their damages assessment and putting forward their – our positions with respect to the damages that were created from the Tribunals earlier award indicating that we unlawfully expropriated by the Venezuelans.
So that award is also – we are in the process now of our damage assessments on both sides and we are saying that probably takes about a year to go through that process.
It started a few months ago that’s kind of time line that we are operating under.
Okay and then moving back in the U.S.
I mean let’s just talk briefly about Permian.
I think in your Analyst Day slides you were testing an area over in the Delaware and then sort of Southern Midland and I think you gave numbers I think it was 150 million acres in the Delaware and I think just under 100 in the Midland.
So first question are those the total acreages that you have in those two shale basins or is it just those sort of areas that you are testing and then maybe give us some color about the recent well results and your rig plans for those two basins as we go forward and then I have quick follow-on.
Okay those numbers that you quoted the 150 and 90 doesn’t [inaudible] for the Delaware and the Permian.
Those really represent the acreage of where we are looking at unconventional development over a million acres in the Permian as a whole.
But those are really representative of the areas where we are focusing on unconventional and exploration appraisal.
Right now we have four rigs running and they all focus just now on the Delaware Basin.
We have well repairs underway from the wells that were previously drilled in the Midland basin but we do drilling activity there right now.
So that’s really – and what we are doing is basically testing the whole section as we describe at the Analyst Day there is about 4 500 feet of prospective section within the Permian Basin and certainly in the Delaware and we are going through the process of making sure that we explore and appraise those different horizons and so we get a clear understanding of what the development plans should be for that going forward.
And are they mainly – is that mainly lease acreage with royalties or is this some fee acreage mixed in that from legacy production in terms of wells position? The areas that we are focused on for unconventionals are predominantly leased acreage.
Right okay thanks very much.
Thanks Ed.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead Hi guys.
Hi Paul.
On Venezuela there is markets rumor that [FICO] maybe selling their refinery.
Wondering have you checked with your legal advisor whether you guys – in the event that they go forward can you put an injunction on that to sort of force Venezuela to speed up their settlement? You know it’s probably not appropriate for us to comment on tactics that we might take in that regard Paul.
Okay.
Or that maybe as a – for Ryan the North American crude differential market look like it’s continued extremely volatile and is still not 100% clear that when or if the government is going to allow the export of crude – on I know that it’s only two years ago that you spin off the refining.
Have you ever thought about to recreate an integrated operation or this is totally behind and you guys not consider given that look like there is pretty large refining system may be available in the market now? Yeah that’s a bit of a curve ball Paul I will give you that.
Right now we are pretty much focused on our plans as an independent E&amp;P company.
So we’re pretty focused on trying to grow our production grow our margins as we’ve outlined and be one of best E&amp;P companies in the space today and part of that does – we have a large North American position certainly with the Eagle Ford Bakken and the unconventional at our legacy position in the North America.
So the export issues something that’s pretty important to us and we’re spending quite a bit of time advocating on behalf of that back in both on the Hill and with the administration.
And the final question first can you share with us any preliminary CapEx and production estimate for 2015? Well I think we’re in the middle of putting our plans together but what I want to take us back to the analyst presentation that we did back in April and our plans really are unchanged from what we described to you guys back then both capital and production.
And maybe this is for Matt Matt if I look at you indicated that third quarter with downtime from – and maybe that’s some third party operation that the startup maybe a little bit delayed.
If you look at of your standpoint what is the biggest risk for you to achieve as your production target or that planned target for the next six to 18 months is there any major project that you think is a little bit more concern or any particular area on the supply chain or anything? I think the range that we’ve given for both the third quarter and the fourth quarter captures the uncertainty that we see in the overall portfolio and the third quarter there was a bit uncertainty on the duration of some of our downtime and the fourth quarter is dominated more by the timing of the new projects coming on.
One of the advantages that we have as a diversified company is that no individual – no single project is going to make a big difference in the overall scheme of things and that diversification in the portfolio helps us to limit the exposure to individual projects prices.
So I think the range that we’ve given from third and fourth quarters is – captures all of that.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Harlan of Society Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah three unrelated questions hopefully not strain your consciousness.
With APLNG if you get approval how long would it take to really develop it? I know it’s beyond the scope of an investor call but I’m just curious? Well we made a lot of progress in APLNG this year I mentioned that we’ve signed a joint venture agreement and applied for the export to FTA and non-FTA countries.
So we’re starting – and that will taking 12 to 18 months or so.
And then feed would then take two or three years so that’s our final investment decision would be in 2017 2016-2017 timeframe and first production would be in 2022 to 2025.
So that’s a sort of timeline that we’re looking at John.
Okay thanks Matt.
With respect to Paul and Matt did you want a core on the well you’re now testing and if so how did the rocks compare to say gas shales in the U.S.? So we didn’t go to horizontal section but we do have crude information from the vertical wells that we have are drilled there.
And it’s difficult to tell there’s a good looking section that we’ve drilled the horizontal well and as you know until you actually frac and produce these unconventional reservoirs it’s difficult to know what you’re going.
So we do not – we have already the usual data it looked like in the U.S.
and the frac that we’ve just done on this well is basically an Eagle Ford style frac and so we’re getting our best shot and we’ll get sense of whether or not what sort of rates we can achieve but and we get to the end of the yield this year.
Okay great.
Last one from me as regarding your deepwater exploration in Angola and Senegal you’re going to be releasing well result individually or just on the quarterly call? I suspect that certainly in Senegal we have some smaller companies involved they’ll be releasing information about – on a regular basis and on the Angola well I don’t know unless we win sea – so far things go but we remain get some information in advance of the quarterly call we see another calls.
All right thanks very much.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for getting on guys.
I want to just follow up on Paul’s question about the front loaded CapEx or what seems to be front loaded CapEx this year and Eagle Ford is specifically not you talked about more completions in the second quarter can you just give us an idea on what the pace has been relative to – I think it was like a 190 wells you were planning for the year originally.
Are you running ahead of that or is that’s still a good number and how much of that we grew so far and then I’ve got a follow up please.
Yeah so that’s a good number so – a quarter that we’re working through and that place has been very consistent in terms of getting again the wells drilled.
As you know as we move to pad drilling there tends to be more batch lake as the production comes on in terms of executing the number of wells we’re drilling we’re on pace for data around a 190 or so that we thought we would be for this year.
So second quarter I thought in your prepared remarks you had few more wells come on so was it less in the Q1 or more in Q2 or just want to understand the pace that you see there? So a bunch of wells come on rate at the beginning of the quarter which meant that those wells were in production all the way through the quarter.
That was one of the reasons the quarter was higher production than we expected.
But overall from pace perspective it’s much same from a drilling piece from a completion and bringing on production that perspective that of course is influenced by the batch drilling associated with the pads and that’s what I was trying to indicate in the prepared remarks that’s going to be a bit more lumpy than it has been in the past because of the pad drilling.
Thanks for that.
My follow up is a bit more conceptual I think it straddles a number of issues asset monetization amongst them but mindful of Brian’s commentary when you look at some of your peers Devon Energy for example with their handling situation and what they are doing there now going go to Midstream MLP how do you guys think about your midstream infrastructure spending because obviously it’s a big enabler as you guys know I’ve been trying to reconcile the level of spending in Eagle Ford relative to the activity and I’m guessing mid-stream’s a big part of that.
So how do you think about how you might be able to perhaps more efficiently monetize your midstream given the high level of CapEx and I’ll leave it there.
Thanks.
If you look at our midstream position overall Doug going back in history most of that midstream position went into the DCP joint venture which has since gone with 466.
So there are not a lot of midstream assets that are out there that could form the core of an MLP for us.
As we look – as we go forward we’re having some midstream investments in the Eagle Ford and in the Permian but those are really not of the size that we feel like we have the critical mass to be thinking about an MLP but that’s something that we’ll just continue to evaluate as we go through time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Reid of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Nearly had a – anyway.
I guess a quick question for you getting back to the Lower 48 we’re seeing I guess two pronged question one is your gas production only down slightly here on a year-over-year basis after declining fairly aggressively for the last several quarters or years is that something now that we see the size of your shale play associated gas enough to gas production itself its ongoing down I think of that as consistent with what we’ve seen across the broader industry but I was hoping for some clarity on that.
Yeah gas production in a broad sense is going to remain roughly flat in Lower 48 we’re not drilling any wells dedicated to dry gas but we have then associated gas production with Eagle Ford and Bakken for example such that on a broad basis we’re going to be relatively flat in overall gas product probably for the next several years.
And the follow up to that we’ve seen one company very large one in the space to swap of one type of likely very gassy assets for stuff from the Permian is that something with an overall I want to call you are CapEx constraint but let’s say at least capped level of CapEx that you would be interested in pursuing.
I mean now the big asset sales are essentially down with Nigeria but I was wondering if that’s maybe something a little bit more imaginative side that you’d be willing to pursue here? Yeah I mean that it really then goes a long way for Ryan we’ve seen at or about I mean on an opportunistic basis the things like swaps and of underlying assets may make sense to this.
So we’re always open to consider those sort of things for this.
But it’s not big part of our ongoing plans.
And if you were to look at more acreage in either the Permian or the Niobrara given your efforts that are ongoing right now is that how we should think of the funding or is it that’s a future unallocated CapEx in ‘15 ‘16 or ‘17.
And then the plans that we’ve laid out for $16 billion of capital we’re including in there the fact that we intend to be develop our overall unconventional resource base including the Permian and the Niobrara.
And that includes Roger some lease acquisitions money as well.
So we’re in the market every day every week in these areas trying to build our positions and core output we think are good deals.
Okay appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
Our next question is from James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey folks thanks for taking the questions.
I just want to look ahead a little bit.
As you guys are absorbing the result of the non-op US Gulf of Mexico program that you guys have been participating in the last couple of years.
Can you speak just a little bit about what looks interesting to you as you contemplate launching the operated program next year? Yeah primary focus on the Gulf of Mexico has been and will continue to be the [paleongene].
We do have some interest in Miocene prospects that we will drill we get are operated and rigs available.
But I would say that the primary focus going forward will be in Paleocene and we’ve had a lot of success there as you’ve seen with the four five significant discoveries.
And we’ll go back to over 2 million acres of deepwater position there.
And it’s about 70% to 80% Paleocene focused but we do have some insights in the Miocene opportunities as well.
Okay great.
The other thing I want to talk about quickly on the onshore obviously you guys have commented generally about the programs in the Permian and Niobrara but just looking at Niobrara and I know that you probably don’t have much you can say about the anti-fracking measures on the balance but in terms of handicapping that but has that effected your activity levels there are you guys thinking about ratcheting back whatever your plan was in the second half of ‘14 as you think about risking likelihood of some type of negative outcome over there.
It hasn’t effected of execution of our plans change.
We’ll just have to see if that those dollars actually make it to the – or not and then we’ll adjust the plans if we need to be some of those results there.
Okay but no kind of proactive stuffs.
If I could sneak one more in I know you guys are doing a stratigraphic well in the La Luna in Columbia on shore this year.
I wondered if you guys or couple of other operators are picked up bigger offshore pieces in the license surrounds that they run out there and they’re also and they’ve talked about the targeting the Lumina offshore.
Have you guys looked at that or would you consider that? Right now we are focused on the onshore position that will good position which we believe in the La Luna and you’re absolutely right the first well the – this year will be a stratigraphic test to calibrate the geology the thermal maturity and so on.
So at least as because I we’re not looking that offshore for the unconventionals around Columbia.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
I realized this is less than 1% of your portfolio but can help asking about the polar light with Rosneft in the context of the new sanctions.
Any color on how that might affect the business.
Yeah Pavel as you know we’ve pretty much exited Russia with some of the moves that we’ve made as a company over the last two to three years.
And right now we’re in a process work we’re actually marketing our – line interest.
So that’s hopefully coming to some sense of conclusion over the course of this year.
Okay fair enough.
You think that sanctions will influence the marketing process or any sign of that.
Well it hasn’t today but we watch it I mean we obviously watch it pretty closely if the latest around the sanctions got ratcheted up a little bit more significantly both on the European and the US side.
Today it hasn’t impacted it but again we’re watching it closely but as you indicated pretty small portion of the portfolio it’s not a lot of proceeds that.
What I put in the kind of the portfolio cleanup category right now that not leveraging but some just we need to cleanup in our portfolio.
Understood.
And then on LNG I realized it’s still about a year before start up.
But do you have a sense of how long it’s likely to take before it reaches full nameplate.
We have the – as you know we have two trains there Pavel.
The first one will come up in the around the middle of next year.
The second train will six and nine months later than that.
And we should get to full capacity relatively quickly.
We have the resource base that we need.
We have the wells and facilities being developed that we need to do that.
So we should get to full capacity hopefully by the middle of ‘16.
Okay at both trains? Yes.
Got it okay.
Thanks very much guys.
Thanks Pavel.
Thank you.
And our last question is from Scott [Hanold] of RBC capital markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Just a couple of quick ones here.
You obviously discuss a little bit of a midstream monetization opportunities.
Can you discuss little bit on like mineral interest ownership you only have.
I mean Anadarko obviously came out and discussed some stuff that they had it’s a looks like there is potentially some value here.
Do you guys have something similar? We’ve got a big Lower 48 Western Canadian Gas portfolio.
So we do have assets where we have royalty interest and overwriting royalty positions.
These are potions which provide us with revenue and really high margin production without any kind of corresponding operating expense or capital requirements.
And we think these like we really think of other assets in our portfolios as we’re always thinking about whether what we could sale them for and get on an after tax basis is more or less than our hold value.
One of things you got a think about an interest like this as we have pretty low tax bases in these types of assets and that’s will gone be a real consideration.
So we’re going – we’re just continue to monitor the asset market for something like in evaluated see if it’s kind a applicability for us in the future.
Okay could you give us a sense of how big that ownership is and what the revenues are roughly on an annual basis? We really think it’s probably more appropriate that we do something like that if we get serious about doing a transaction like this.
Okay understood.
And my second question is on Jasmine I guess one of your partners discussed some compartmentalization and some performance not to expectations.
Can you give us a little bit of color on that and what you all thinks you can do here.
Jasmine the production performance has been a bit below what we anticipated it would be because of a bit more reservoir complexity.
It’s within the range of our expectations but at the lower end of the range.
In fact as we’re drilling the Jasmine development wells we actually now believe that there is more gas in place gas and condensate in place in Jasmine than we thought.
But it’s a bit more stratigraphically complex.
So we’re evaluating that just now and because we knew that there were some uncertainty we actually installed the platform at Jasmine that has 24 slots on it.
And our initial plans were only to drill eight wells from it.
So there is a lot of flexibility for us to add production and overcome this reservoir heterogeneity issue as time goes on.
Yeah can you give us a sense on what kind on incremental CapEx spend it would take to kind of get it back to say the midpoint of that range of expectations.
Now it’s really too early to see where we’re digesting in those out from our production performance to date.
And we’ll build to our plans as we get a better understanding of the reservoir dynamics.
Okay understood.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Thanks Christine thanks everybody.
Feel free to call us if you have any future questions or follow-up questions.
We appreciate again your time and interest.
Thank you.
Thank you and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine and thanks to all our listeners for joining us today.
With me in the room are Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO; Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer; and Matt Fox our EVP of Exploration and Production.
A couple of quick administrative matters.
Of course we will make some forward-looking statements this morning.
The risks in our future performance are described on page two in today’s presentation also in our periodic filings with the SEC.
All this information as well as our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations and our supplemental data can be found on our website.
And finally I just wanted to mention that we announced this morning that ConocoPhillips will be hosting an analyst meeting on April 8 in 2015 so hope you’ll save the date for that.
We’ll of course provide some additional details very shortly.
And with that I’m going to turn the call over to Ryan.
Thank you Ellen.
And thanks to all our listeners for your participation this morning.
I’ll begin our call this morning with some remarks about the current environment.
Let me just say that while the recent oil price downturn seems sudden we’re well positioned as a company to respond without impacting our strategic objectives of 3% to 5% volume and margin growth.
This is key and it’s the result of a significant repositioning we’ve achieved as a company in the past two years.
We’ve caught up the portfolio; lowered the overall cost of supply; and significantly increased our degree of capital flexibility.
And put this last point in a bit of perspective in 2014 our committed capital for major projects and maintenance represents about 50% of our capital and this declines to approximately 30% by 2016.
I’ll come back highlight that again in a couple of minutes.
Another thing we want to emphasize is that events like the recent price downturn underscore the importance of staying focused on the fundamentals.
We know this is a cyclical business and we’ve been here before.
And certainly the old adages apply full cycle low cost wins asset quality matters and financial strength as an asset.
We intend to make prudent adjustments at this time while continuing to monitor the environment.
So please turn to next slide and I’ll outline the reasons why we believe we’re in a unique position today.
This slide summarizes what we want you to take away from our comments today.
The headline in the chart on the right really say it all.
We have the flexibility and the resiliency to weather lower prices and we’ll exercise that flexibility as appropriate.
Importantly at this time we do not see any major impediment to our ability to deliver on our stated goals for the next few years and those are 3% to 5% volume and margin growth with the competitive dividend.
We still believe this is a winning formula for our shareholders and we have a plan to deliver.
We have momentum in our volume growth due to the start-up of several major projects this year in places like Europe Malaysia the oil sands and APLNG.
And we have steady growth coming from our North American unconventionals.
And it goes without saying we’ll continue to stay focused on margins and returns.
On a price normalized basis we expect to achieve our margin targets.
This was driven by growing liquids production in areas with favorable fiscals.
In addition the major projects start-ups in 2015 will generate steady cash flows for years to come.
Importantly at current commodity prices our capital investments generate attractive returns.
And in the unconventionals we have a multiyear inventorial projects that have a cost of supply that is lower than the prices we’re seeing today.
So we’re well-positioned to adjust to the current environment without affecting our overall performance targets and here is the key reasons why.
During the past few years we spent a significant amount of capital on the major projects I’d just mentioned.
In fact 2014 was the peak year of capital spending at Surmont and APLNG.
So beginning in 2015 capital on our major projects begins to taper off.
As shown on the right hand chart with growing development capital spend we have significantly more flexibility to ramp up or down our capital as circumstances dictate.
This is flexibility we have not had for many years but is what we set out to create when we established the independent ConocoPhillips over two years ago.
As we think about our capital levels going into 2015 we first consider all of our priorities for investment.
As we have said consistently since this spin our top priority is the dividend.
This is an important part of our investment thesis.
The dividend provides discipline on our capital allocation process and we believe it is important in a mature business so no change to the outlook on the dividend.
The next consideration is affordability of capital and cash flow neutrality.
Since the spin we have been consistent about targeting late 2016 to 2017 for cash flow neutrality and achieving cash through that neutrality is still a priority.
We are currently in the process of setting our 2015 capital budget and we’ll announce that later in December.
What you should expect is that we will exercise the flexibility we have and announce a range of capital spending that is not only lower than 2015 but lower than our stated target of $16 billion per year.
Across the lower 48 we can throttle back on our less mature unconventional plays while continuing to invest in our highest margin short cash cycle projects in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
These are the best returns on our portfolio and give us the confidence that we need to meet our volume target of 3% to 5% even with a bit lower capital next year.
Finally we have a very healthy balance sheet including cash on hand.
We think of our financial strength as a competitive advantage.
So in summary we’re well positioned for the current environment.
We’re coming out of a significant transformation as a company at a time when asset quality capital flexibility and financial strength matter.
We are going to act prudently but our plan is on track we’re focused on executing that plan and we don’t anticipate any significant change to delivering our stated goal to our shareholders.
Hopefully these openings comments provide you bit of insights and the context to our thinking about the current environment.
But so now back to our regulatory schedule program stepping through the quarterly results.
So please turn to the next slide.
Here is a summary of our overall achievements for the third quarter.
Of course this is our company level set chart that we share every quarter.
I won’t cover all the points here in detail I’ll leave at for both Jeff and Matt but the key takeaway here is the business is on track.
We delivered our targeted volume and margin growth for the quarter; we increased our dividend to the shareholders; and we exited the quarter in a very strong financial position with almost $6 billion of cash and short-term investments on hand.
So now let me turn the call over to Jeff and Matt and they’ll go over the results of the quarter in a bit more detail.
And I’ll come back at the end of the call with some concluding remarks and field your questions.
Thanks Ryan.
My comment this morning will be brief reflecting the straight forward nature of our third quarter results.
Slide seven presents our adjusted earnings.
Sequentially and year-over-year adjusted earnings reflect lower commodity prices.
However we saw strong operational performance this quarter and we successfully executed several major turnarounds.
Volumes reflected a dip sequentially for these planned maintenance activities.
Third quarter adjusted earnings were $1.6 billion or $1.29 a share.
Segment breakdown of those earnings is shown in the lower right of this chart and further segment details can be found in the supplemental data which is available on our website.
If you turn to slide eight I’ll quickly summarize our production results for the quarter.
As you know our convention for production is continuing operations excluding Libya.
On this basis our third quarter volumes averaged 1.473 million BOE per day which is slightly above the midpoint of our guidance.
We anticipated a significant level of turnaround activity in the third quarter.
As you can see we had 37 000 BOE per day of additional downtime compared to last year with 35 of that coming from our planned maintenance work.
Normalizing for those impacts we achieved a 62 000 BOE per day of underlying growth.
This represents a 4% increase year-over-year and keeps us on track to deliver our 3% to 5% growth in 2014.
On the same basis this represents a 7% liquids growth year-over-year.
This high value liquids increase is really making a difference in our margin which I’ll cover on the next slide.
This is our typical slide showing year-over-year sequential cash margins.
The left chart reflects margins at actual prices during the period and the right chart is price normalized.
On a price normalized basis third quarter margins improved 8% year-over-year.
Of that growth about 2% is from FX related tax items and reduced Libya volumes.
So underlying cash margin growth was about 6% and this is despite higher cost associated with the significant turnaround activity in the quarter.
This metric will be volatile on a quarter by quarter basis but like our volume target we’re on track to achieve our 3% to 5% growth target for margins for the year.
And finally I will review our year-to-date cash flow waterfall in the next slide.
Again this is straightforward.
We began the year with $6.5 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Year-to-date we’ve generated $12.5 billion of cash from operating activities and added $1.3 billion from the SCCL distribution earlier this year.
Over this period we’ve had about a $2 million improvement in working capital and added $1 billion of net proceeds from dispositions.
Year-to-date we have funded a $12.7 billion capital program with $4.6 billion of those expenditures coming in the third quarter.
The third quarter will be the peak capital spending quarter for 2014 and we’re still on track for the $16.7 billion of capital for 2014 that we announced in December of last year.
After funding our capital program and dividend we ended the quarter with $5.8 billion in cash and short-term investments.
As a reminder we need about a $1 billion to run our business so the remainder will be available to fund our capital programs.
This concludes the review of our financial performance.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Matt for an update on operations.
Thanks Jeff.
The key operational message is that execution is on track across our global portfolio.
It was a very busy quarter for turnarounds in our base operations and we completed these activities on schedule and on budget.
We also achieved some important milestones and stack ups in our major projects continued to deliver strong performance from our North American unconventionals and progressed our exploration activities; including the discovery of a new oil play offshore Senegal.
So let’s jump in to review of our segment performance starting with the Lower 48 in Canada on slide 12.
In the Lower 48 third quarter production averaged 343 000 BOE per day that’s a 9% overall increase from the third quarter of last year and represents a 25% increase in crude oil production over the same period.
Leading this growth were our liquids-rich Eagle Ford and Bakken assets which averaged that combined 212 000 BOE per day a 33% increase from the third quarter last year.
Sequentially Eagle Ford production is relatively flat in line with our guidance.
As you’ll recall last quarter we indicated growth would be flatter through the end of the year as we continue to shift to pad drilling and bring new wells on line in batches.
We remain on track for continued growth into 2015 and beyond.
The Eagle Ford averaged a 157 000 BOE per day in the third quarter.
This represents a 31 000 BOE per day or a 25% increase from the same quarter last year.
We continue to execute and evaluate pilot tests in the Eagle Ford including single horizontal well test in the upper Eagle Ford.
These tests have been encouraging and we’ll soon begin testing a three layer development concept by placing a layer of wells in the upper Eagle Ford and two layers of wells in the lower Eagle Ford.
The wells will be drilled 660 feet apart in each layer.
We call this an 80-acre triple stack.
The Bakken averaged 55 000 BOE per day over the quarter up 21 000 BOE per day from the third quarter last year a 62% increase.
We continued to pilot test a 160-acre dense spacing in the Bakken.
But based on the results we’ve seen to-date it’s too early to make decision of ultimate spacing there.
We’ve also made good progress in our Permian and Niobrara appraisal activities in 2014.
In the Permian we’re currently focused on appraising the multiple stack horizons in the Delaware Basin.
And then in Niobrara we’re testing several alternative well configurations and completion techniques.
In both areas we continue to see encouraging results.
Before I leave down to conventionals I want to highlight the chart on the bottom left.
This chart represents third-party data that shows ConocoPhillips has the lowest cost of supply unconventional portfolio compared to our peers.
This means we are at the best position to stand lower prices.
And remember that not all unconventionals are created equal and being in the sweet spot matters now more than ever.
We’ll provide a more complete update on our unconventional reservoir appraisal and pilot test activities at our Analyst Meeting next year.
In addition to our unconventional activities in the Lower 48 we continue to be active in the third quarter in Gulf of Mexico.
After further evaluation at Coronado we have decided not to continue with appraisal of that discovery and we took our initial Wildcat across [the dry hole] this quarter.
However we continued to be very active this year appraising our three significant discoveries of Shenandoah Tiber and Gila so stay tuned for more information on those.
In addition we have a rig coming nearly 2015 that will allow us to start evaluating our operating portfolio.
So our Lower 48 segment continues to deliver strong performance.
Our Canadian business also performed well during the quarter.
We produced 276 000 BOE per day which includes a 9% increase in liquids production year-over-year.
At Surmont 1 we completed a significant turnaround and are now back at full production as planned.
Foster Creek achieved fast production in September and is expected to ramp up over the next 12 to 18 months.
Our major project the Surmont 2 is making good progress and remains on schedule for first steam in mid-2015.
This is an important large scale oil sands project that will provide steady production and cash flow in the future.
The chart on the bottom right shows the steam oil ratios for several oil sands projects [R3] project Surmont Christina Lake and Foster Creek had the lowest SORs compared to our competitors last year.
Low SORs are the key to low cost of supply.
And just like the unconventionals it really matters to be in the best geology in the oil sands.
On the exploration front we’re continuing to explore and appraise our unconventional plays with some very encouraging results in the Montney and Duvernay.
Again we expect to provide more detail at the Analyst Meeting.
Next I’ll cover Alaska and Europe segments on slide 13.
Alaska average production was 155 000 BOE per day reflecting higher plant maintenance downtime at Prudhoe Bay.
At CD5 the Alpine central facility’s tie-in work is progressing on schedule.
The project is more than 50% complete and on track for start-up in late 2015.
We’ve sanctioned the Drill Site 2S project and assuming acceptable federal payments we plan to sanction the Greater Mooses Tooth project in the first quarter of 2015.
We’re also progressing the 1H NEWS project.
This is the third new project with initiative since the passage of the More Alaska Production Act.
And in addition to the progress on these projects we’ve also signed a contract to build a new rotary drilling rig for Kuparuk.
We’re also making progress on the Alaska LNG project.
We have FERC approval to start the pre-file process for the project.
This milestone sets the stage for the environmental review required for the siting design and construction permitting of the project.
An export application has also been filed with the DOE and the federal register.
So we’re making progress on the preliminary work to move this project forward.
Moving on to Europe third quarter production averaged a 194 000 BOE per day.
This is up 10% year-over-year reflecting new production from the start-ups at Jasmine the new East Irish Sea and Ekofisk South partly offset by normal fuel decline.
The Britannia Long-Term Compression project started up in the third quarter and Eldfisk II hook up in commissioning activities continue on schedule for Eldfisk 2015 startup.
Now let’s review our Asia Pacific &amp; Middle East segments and other international segment on slide 14.
In the APME segment we produced 301 000 BOE per day in the third quarter.
This reflects major turnaround work at Bayu-Undan and Darwin LNG.
At Bayu-Undan we also initiated Phase III drilling during the quarter.
We were pleased to report that Gumusut achieved first production in early October.
The new floating production system is running well and we expect to ramp up production in this high margin field over the next few months.
This project is one of the key drivers of production and margin growth going into 2015.
The KBB project is ready for startup.
We expect first gas in November but our rate will be significantly constrained pending repairs on the third party pipeline.
We expect to be at full rate in this project by mid 2015.
On a combined downstream and upstream basis the APLNG project is now about 84% complete and remains on schedule for a mid-2015 start up.
This is another project that will provide stable production and cash flow for many years to come.
In exploration we spudded Barossa 3 well in October and completed the second phase of our appraisal program in the Greater Poseidon area.
These fields represent possible options for Darwin LNG backfill in the future.
In our other international segment we announced the oil was discovered in cretaceous sandstones offshore Senegal with a FAN-1 well.
We’re encouraged by the presence of a working petroleum system in this frontier basin and we are now evaluating further work to enhance and understanding of the play in this commerciality.
We’re currently drilling an additional well SNE-1 testing a different play in the area.
This is a second of a two well commitment in this block.
By the way if Senegal advances as a development project ConocoPhillips has the option to takeover operatorship so more to come in Senegal.
We continued drilling our [Kamoxi] well and block 36 in Angola and we expect to have some initial results in this well soon.
In Poland we’re continuing to test the Lublewo well after a large fracture stimulation.
As you know we were exploring for gas but the results of the well indicate that we’re in the more liquids rich window.
We’re studying the data and evaluating next steps and we’ll update the market once our evaluation is complete.
In Colombia we recently spudded the Picoplata well in the La Lu Luna Shale trend.
Finally the Es Sider Terminal in Libya opened in late August.
We completed our first lift in early September and had two additional liftings this month.
We’re currently producing at a 25 000 BOE per day net.
We continue to monitor the situation in Libya but it will remain out of our production guidance given the ongoing uncertainty.
I’ll wrap up my prepared remarks with the volume outlook on slide 15.
This is our typical chart of quarterly volume guidance for continuing operations excluding Libya.
The first three quarters represent actuals.
We expect the significant ramp up in volumes going from third quarter to the fourth quarter.
Key drivers of this production increase of the completion of our major turnaround season and ramp up at Gumusut and Britannia Long-Term Compression.
We now expect fourth quarter volumes to be in the range of 1 545 to 1 575 BOE per day which is lower than previous guidance for the quarter but still achieves the full year targets we laid out earlier in the year.
The fourth quarter adjustments reflect three main drivers.
First we don’t expect to providing ramp gas to a third party LNG project in Australia during the quarter.
This was always viewed as a short-term production option.
Second as mentioned earlier we expect a delay of full ramp up at KBB due to third party pipeline appears.
And finally at current prices we expect to reject ethane in our San Juan Basin operations this is strictly a value play what we give up on rig will gain on margins.
Despite these changes the fourth quarter expectations we’ve had a very strong year and we’re on track to go production by 4% compared to 2013.
Again this is exactly in line with the guidance we provided at the start of the year.
And we’re well positioned to deliver our longer term growth target with strong momentum going into 2015.
This momentum comes from a continued ramp from recent startups at FCCL Malaysia the UK and Norway and ongoing strong production from our unconventionals.
In addition in 2015 with growth coming from a major project startups Eldfisk II APLNG Surmont 2 and Foster Creek Phase G.
The bottom-line is we continue to execute safely and efficiently and we’re well positioned to deliver our strategic objectives.
We look forward to providing an operational update at our Analyst Meeting in April.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Ryan for closing remarks.
Thank you Matt.
So let me recap a bit of what you’ve heard today.
First we’re on track to deliver our goals of 3% to 5% volume and margin growth with an attractive dividend.
And we’re well positioned for the current price environment.
We’re laser focused on executing our plans while using our capital flexibility to respond to short-term factors.
We have good production momentum going in 2015 and we’ll expect to announce 2015 capital program it reflects the priority on achieving cash flow neutrality without impacting our ability to deliver on our growth targets.
So we’re following the plan and the path we laid out two years ago and it’s working.
And as Matt said we look forward to providing you in more detail company update at our Analyst Meeting in April.
So with that let me turn it over to everyone on the phone and back to the operator for some Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question is from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
So I think if heard you correctly obviously oil prices being lower you’ve set sort of similar volume outlook for last CapEx.
Please correct me if I misheard that but I was just wondering how much when you look at your overall program going forward of that sort of saving on CapEx is sort of well performance –shale are performing to enable you to hit your growth lower amounts of dollar spend.
How much is deferral you mentioned deferring some early phase shale it will be interesting to know much you spent on that in ‘14? And then how much is perhaps the cost reduction? Yes.
Thanks Ed.
Mostly in our thinking right now is mostly I would say deferral from the less mature of the unconventional plays that we have in the portfolio.
Again we’re focused on our low cost of supply that we have in the Eagle Ford the core areas that we’re drilling in the Eagle Ford the Bakken those are going to remain a big part of what we’re doing going forward.
But it is a deferral out of some of those less mature plays.
What we don’t know going into the year is how the costs are going to develop.
Is this depending on your view or how bullish or bearish you are in commodity prices over the next couple of years.
What I don’t know is how much scope we’re going to get done for the capital that we said and that’s something that we’re going to watch pretty closely as depending on where the prices level out how long it stays there what that cost structure is going to look like.
Things will correct if it stays at $80 and we know that.
And then a question on APLNG obviously you’re seeing first production around the middle of next year.
When do you reckon you would get the sort of first commercial cargo in terms of us starting to sort of model the cash flow contribution from that project obviously we still hear about delays with the main contracted out in the Queensland gas area? And then any comments on this reversion reclaim by Tristar.
Would that disrupt your ability to hit those goals? So Ed we’d expect that the first cargo will be sometime late in the third quarter or early in the fourth quarter from APLNG.
And we’re on track to deliver that.
We don’t think that our production or our resource possessions going to be influenced by the Tri-Star measure.
Yes.
And I’m just I am not (inaudible) but if they win and secure I guess an access to the project would you need to buy third-party gas from others or presumably you could buy from them and I just (inaudible) cost will be treated? So we don’t anticipate that that’s going to be an issue Ed.
And we don’t think that that claim has merit.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
Ryan it seems like based on your comments and I think what Jeff answered Ed’s question that you guys are probably going to be as focused as ever on your capital expenditure and your operating cost control in the current budgeting round at least as much as ever.
But the second part was about sustainable cost opportunities what was your point there? It wasn’t clear how significant they were? And also whether it might be whether or not to go in the supply chain or the well service areas or what have you.
And so I guess the question is first kind of a clarification on that point.
And also are you doing anything different than the current budgeting round to try and locate some of these cost opportunities and possibly capture them? Yes.
Thanks Doug.
No I mean we’ve sent our procurement group out to discover the world in terms to make sure that we’re getting the best deal we can for all those services that we’re providing.
My comment is related to last the last downturn we saw in this business.
The costs came down a fair amount as well; they’ve risen over the last four to five years.
But if we stay at this $80ish world for year or two then we would expect some of the cost to start coming down and we’re trying to capture those as fast and as quickly as we can.
So again a lot of our contracts whether they are drilling rig or pumping services they are relatively short-term.
So the reductions that should come we ought to be able to capture them very quickly and that’s our intention.
But yes we’re focused on both the capital that we’re spending to make sure we get as much scope as we can out of it and the cost that we’re spending across the whole enterprise.
Okay.
I understand.
And then also on Venezuela you got file for arbitration recently.
So just want to say if we could get an update on the next steps there the timing and how you’re thinking about that situation? Yes.
So we have two sets of arbitration that are going on.
The recent arbitration that we have filed is a contractual arbitration relative to the joint operating agreements we had for both the Hamaca and the Petrozuata projects in the Orinoco Belt.
So that’s different and separate from the arbitration that we filed a few years back that’s working its way through the system.
So the phase of that arbitration is we’re both submitting our damages claim to the Tribunal both ConocoPhillips and the Venezuelans are submitting that to the Tribunal and the Tribunal will rule on the amount of the damages.
This contractual arbitration is something distinct and separate from that that will progress through the courts just like the other arbitration has.
Okay.
Thanks a lot everybody.
Thank you Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
If I may kind of go into the CapEx sort of discussion again.
When you look at obviously a lower price oil environment and moderating spending a little bit to bring more of that balance.
How many I guess years of that could you do before -- when you look at 2017 and beyond that becomes more of a question whether or not you can support that 3% to 5% growth beyond that period? Yes.
That’s exactly what we’re looking.
We have a lot of flexibility in the portfolio.
So we can -- we’ve created that over the last couple of years as this major project has ramped down and we’re spending more on the development drilling side so we can ramp that down or ramp that up based on the market that we see.
And to your point I mean if we stay at lower capital levels than what we’ve described since the spin and we do that for a prolonged period of two or three years it starts to potentially impact some of the growth but that occurs well beyond 2017.
So that’s why we have a range of 3% to 5% production growth.
We’ll monitor the market; we’ll watch it and make sure we do the right thing for the company and the shareholders but the impact would be longer term.
So what we’re doing now with the major projects rolling off the production that we’re delivering is why we’ve got confidence between now and 2017 and the plans that we’ve laid out will deliver on the 3% to 5% volume growth.
So you made a comment on some of the more I guess new venture type of unconventionals could take a bit of a backseat for now.
Where does exploration sort of rank on that sort of pecking order list? Well it’s in a similar bucket as the less mature unconventionals because that’s investments we’re making today for the long-term growth and development of the company.
So yes we look at our commitments that we have on the exploration side and some of the new opportunities that might present themselves.
We’re taking a bit of a pause and slowing some of that down as well.
Okay thanks.
And if I could quickly ask on Coronado could you give us a little bit of color on your thoughts on -- I guess it doesn’t look like you’ve got (technical difficulty) any activity there anymore.
Can you give a little color on that? Yes I mean the original discovery well was very encouraging but the first appraisal well that we drilled was intended to establish what the overall size was and that was disappointing.
So rather than continue to appraise that we feel that it would be better to direct our exploration and appraisal dollars elsewhere.
So that’s why we’ve decided not to continue and pursue in Coronado.
But it doesn’t have any implications for our overall (inaudible) Gulf of Mexico exploration program.
We’ve got a very strong position there over 2 million net acres that we like a lot.
(Inaudible) discoveries already that we are appraising.
And so it doesn’t have any long-term implications for our Gulf of Mexico exploration program.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Guy Baber of Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question.
The overall production this year you expect to basically come in line with your expectations and we can see the growth projects expected to come on in the next few years which is significant as well as the uplift you will get from the U.S.
unconventional piece.
But my question is around your underlying and more mature base of production.
Have you felt about that base this year how it’s performed? Are there any trends you would highlight or areas where you have seen improvement or you see potential for improvement going forward? Just trying to get a better sense of how base production might evolve over the next couple of years and what you’re seeing on that front.
Our base performance is virtually identical to what we thought it would be.
I mean we’ve got good predictive capability on all of our major legacy assets and we understand the decline on our base projects.
So no surprises at all across the portfolio in our base production.
Okay great.
And then upstream results in Canada have been especially impressive this year especially in light of where some of that profitability has been last couple of years despite relatively consistent pricing and production.
So just hoping you could comment a bit more on -- in a little bit more detail on the evolving profitability of that business unit.
Have you made significant strides there in improving the underlying cost structure and the profitability of that business? Just wanting to better understand that strength and then the sustainability of that going forward? I think that’s probably more of a factor of just market conditions that we’ve seen in different quarters.
The third quarter was a pretty strong quarter for us for bitumen realizations kind of seasonal blending requirements kind of diluent prices.
All those things worked pretty well in the third quarter.
So we had strong bitumen realizations.
I think you saw market prices go down by $6 or so quarter-to-quarter but you saw bitumen prices only go down by maybe half of that.
And a lot of that has to do with all the things that go into bitumen realizations.
And the other thing that’s helping the business is (inaudible) extremely well.
I mean the operating efficiency in our oil sands asset is tremendous.
I mean San Juan for example is producing consistently well above the designed capacity.
Our Western Canada business unit has had a tremendous focus on cost management and capital efficiency for the development programs.
So we’re executing well as well as seeing some benefit from the [WCAS] sort of differentials.
Thanks for the comments.
Thanks Guy.
Thanks Guy.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you everybody.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Doug.
Hey Ryan I wonder if I could try one to you and one for Matt.
And to you I’m really just curious on your perspective on what has happened to the commodity here I know it’s a big picture question.
But I guess one of the hangovers of being a big oil company is longer term planning.
So I’m not expecting Conoco to have any kind of knee jerk reactions but I just wonder if you could give us your perspectives and specifically around Libya given that you are I guess an operating company there.
How sustainable do you think Libya is? And then I’ve got a follow-up more specifically on the assets.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thanks Doug.
Yes on the macro picture probably a lot of what you hear is surprising how quickly the Libyans came back from zero to what we’re seeing today 600 000 700 000 barrels a day gross production.
But we sell out we don’t have any people on the ground in Libya but we do have some national employees that are part of our company that are there in Tripoli and the situation is very tenuous.
The one faction that took over the NOC offices in fact bombed the NOC offices in Tripoli.
So I think that the whole Libya thing is just kind of hanging on right now.
So there is tenuous supply out there that I think is a bit at risk which we’ll have to just see over the course of next few months.
I think the demand side has been a little bit surprising out of some of the non-OECD countries in the Far East and obviously China trying to figure out how much -- where their demand is going to come out how much the growth is happening in the country.
So definitely well supplied market right now and we can all speculate what the Saudis are going to go do but I think they’re a little upset with some of their customer base being taken away by some of the other country.
So it is a bit of mix bag of things that are out there but I think for us it’s global diversified company.
That’s what we’re trying to do.
We run scenarios we think about -- we don’t think about point estimates in oil price around run different scenarios.
And we try to anticipate what we would do in capital investment what the company the portfolio would look like under these various scenarios.
So I think we’re well positioned for where we find the market today.
I appreciate it.
I guess my other question is to Matt.
It kind of really bridges between the discretionary spending in the portfolio Matt relative to obviously a very competitive economics you guys have had.
So I guess what I’m kind of looking at is 15% of your spending budget was laid out as exploration or defined as exploration which I guess would have no impact on the short-term production.
So as you look at overall pricing environment and you think about the plan not to go into too many specifics because you haven’t given us the number yet obviously but how do you think about where you would capital first and what if there was an area in your Lower 48 portfolio that may be challenged in the current environment where -- how would you kind of rank worst through best if you like --? So this is really an opportunity to exercise the flexibility.
And we would anticipate we would ramp more slowly than the previous plans would be in our less mature plays.
So we don’t need to ramp as quickly in the Permian as we previously thought so we could take some scope there and the same applies in the Niobrara and to some of our plays in Western Canada.
So those are the primary areas where we could take some flexibility without having any significant impact on the rate between now and 2017.
So those are the main areas.
But it will also choke back a little bit in exploration but we’re still committed to exploration as an engine for organic growth of the company in the long-term.
So we need to be balancing a long-term view of the company’s growth potential with these short-term conditions that we find ourselves in.
Is it fair to describe Matt $2 billion of exploration I mean that’s a big cushion.
Would that be the first place if things got worse let’s assume is that the first place you would look to cut while maintaining rate? I’m just trying to understand because it just seems you’ve gotten a lot of more flexibility than some of your peers.
And I’ll leave it there.
Yes Doug I mean that’s one of the areas that we’d look but as I said I mean it’s a balancing act for the short-term and the long-term.
We’ve got a lot of flexibility in the Lower 48 and Canada portfolio and to manage our capital over this period without having a big impact on growth.
So we’re certainly not going to gut our exploration program.
We need to maintain the exploration for the long-term organic growth of the company and we’re going to do that.
Very clear.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
I’ve got some quick ones for Matt.
Can you say anything else about the well in Angola the pre-salt well? Were you seeing anything on the way down because you’re going to TD that soon? And then also with Poland can you talk at all about the test results of the shale? It is too early to say anything about the Kamoxi well John.
I mean we expect to have that done something in the next couple of weeks and we’ll make some announcement once we’ve actually got some results to talk about.
So it is too early really to talk about that.
On the Poland well yes we have had some tests in Poland in a more down depth location in this well and those were gas wells and we drilled this well in this location anticipating we would find the same fluids and we essentially found of course really an oil well.
And so we’re scratching our head a bit to understand what’s going on there’s some sort of thermal maturity change that we weren’t anticipating.
And we’re at the stage of essentially conducting a long-term flow test doing some pressure build ups and then we’ll have a better understanding of what the implications of this are in the next few months.
Okay great.
Thanks Matt.
And then one other one from me.
Given the fact that we’ve had prices break down ultimately there may be more properties available in the market for the companies that don’t go public.
Will you at all look to supplement your acreage positions in the unconventional plays by buying additional assets or acreage to be opportunistic? Yes we are screening land all the time both in North America and internationally.
So if opportunities come up that would meet with our portfolio well and at decent price early in the life cycle then we would be ready to take advantage of that if those opportunities came up.
And I think the earlier in the lifecycle comment that Matt made is key there because we do have a lot of organic growth opportunities in the existing portfolio that we are funding currently.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks John.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Hey Paul.
Hey Paul.
Maybe this is for Matt or for Ryan.
First question from a portfolio management standpoint if we’re looking at today Bakken Eagle Ford and SAGD account for 20% 22% 23% of your production.
So from a portfolio management standpoint Matt and Ryan is there a level that you feel uncomfortable saying that okay this is too much concentration or what the desirable optimum percentage of your asset mix should be in the North American onshore unconventional oil portfolio? Yes.
I guess Paul kind of thinking about it along those lines you are trying to hit an optimum sort of percentage.
I’ll take low cost of supply which the Bakken and Eagle Ford represent and then balance that with SAGD which is these longer term 40 year 50 year projects that provide an incredible base amount of cash flow with high margin production.
They are a little bit different.
So really not targeting percentage just making sure they fit the returns profile and they are competitive with the rest of the investments we have -- the opportunities we have in the portfolio and they do compete and obviously Bakken and Eagle Ford are at a very low cost of supply very high returns.
So from that standpoint I mean risk come also with opportunity.
And so if indeed that commodity price let’s say stay at this $80 or even lower for one or two years will you be willing to use your balance sheet or perhaps stretch your balance sheet to make some acquisitions to even further beef up what you consider that maybe as an advantage position to be even bigger or that you will be too concerned about the balance sheet and that’s not something that you would like to do? That really just depends on the quality of the opportunity that we see out there.
As we’ve talked about before we do have balance sheet capacity.
We ended up the quarter with $6 billion in cash.
We’re going to use some of that as we go through just funding our program until we get to the point of cash flow neutrality.
But as Matt said we’re always going to be out there looking for opportunities.
If they make sense we shouldn’t be afraid to use our balance sheet.
But we do have a pretty strong inventory of existing opportunities in the portfolio today.
Okay.
Two final quick ones.
One Matt any rough range you can provide for 2015 production? And second for Ryan it look like there is somewhat of a status quo for your CapEx program at today’s price.
You may trim here and there but is there a level of the commodity prices that once you reach there for an extended period of time whatever you define that and you will start revisiting your overall program and maybe consider that time had changed? So on the production question I mean the best guidance I can give Paul is we expect to deliver 3% to 5% production growth moving from 2014 into 2015 just as we have from ‘13 to ‘14 and then keep that going through ‘16 and ‘17.
So the best guidance is 3% to 5% production growth.
Yes.
On the second part there Paul there is nothing status quo about what’s happening today in the market.
So we’ll look at that as we’ve got a lot of flexibility.
We got flexibility in our capital program; we got cash on the balance sheet.
We got balance sheet flexibility.
We’ll monitor the system.
And I’m pretty focused on cash flow neutrality.
I think we have [capital] [Ph] plan that gets us there and so that’s a stake that we’ve put in the ground.
And again you go back to the bit of guidance that I provided in the call here which says next year I’m looking at a capital amount that’s lower than this year and in fact lower than kind of the $16 billion guidance that we threw out there when we put our plan in place for the company’s 3% to 5% growth.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Reid of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
I guess good morning depending on where you are or good afternoon.
Just a couple of other things kind of thinking about the whole cash flow balance sheet approach.
You all went through a very large I guess the shrink part or the shrink to grow approach here over the last couple of years.
If you’re looking for ways to potentially plug an opening in the cash flow CapEx front over the next year or two if crude stays where it is.
What are the other assets identified for sale if I remember correctly you had a larger portfolio of potential sales than were actually executed.
So presumably there are still some I guess non-core assets out there? The approach we have on asset sales going forward is just to point [Inaudible] to the fact that we’ve got a large portfolio of assets.
When you look at a company of our size roughly $100 million of assets out there.
But you can always expect that there will be some level of asset sales that will be happening.
So there is $1 billion or so maybe $2 billion of asset sales a year.
That’s probably not an unreasonable expectation.
Unlike what we’ve done in the past where we’ve kind of identified particular assets that we’re going to be marketing.
We don’t anticipate we’d be doing that going forward so you’ll just likely hear about things as they happen.
We are going to be disciplined about portfolio management going forward but there is nothing in particular that we would identify today that we want to talk about as an asset sale.
Okay thanks.
And then the other question on the OpEx side we talked a lot about capital allocation and so forth; you mentioned earlier contracts with the service companies.
But rather than necessarily drilling a new well what opportunities do you have on the operating side to lower cost if any or what should we think of to watch maybe as an independent factor for thinking about lower cost? So we’re going through our budgeting phase and we’re asking all of our operating units and the staff groups to take a very close look at operating cost for next year to look for opportunities to reduce our overall operating cost structure.
So it’s just part of our ongoing disciplined approach to managing our cost structure but we certainly are focused on that we’re always focused on that.
Right.
So I guess is there anything we should think about well workovers or something like that you can always you can defer some of that work or are there ways - I am just trying to think expendable cost something like that that you can manage down? Yes I mean there are opportunities and probably the last place we would go is to adjust well work and workover activity that’s very value adding operating cost.
But we’re asking all of our operating units to take a hard look at their operating cost for next year.
But that’s not different from what we usually do frankly.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Roger.
Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon all.
And thanks for being so clear at what is fiscal difficult time here right now to talk about the stuff.
I think just to clarify a comment you made to be very clear Ryan I think you said that quite specifically the CapEx next year would be lower and below your $16 billion guidance is that your opening statement? Yes that’s correct.
That’s great.
Thanks that makes that clear.
And I guess if we were to think of what you thought of as an attractive dividend we would assume that that would be rising over time otherwise it wouldn’t be attractive right? Yes.
We’ve said over time we expect to be increasing the dividend.
So yes that -- it will remain attractive.
And by the way I’m not setting out here to trick you in any way; I’m just making quite sure we’re clear here.
So what you’ve then said is that you kind of locked in to the major projects spending obviously and that’s a very important part of you meeting your volume guidance.
But you have an increasing amount of essentially discretionary CapEx over the coming years which would allow you should the environment stay tough to cut back fairly easily on your spending in order to balance your budget? Yes I think that’s right Paul.
That’s a place we haven’t been as a company that we set out to create more flexibility lower cost of supply across the portfolio.
So as I mentioned in my opening remarks today and through ‘14 about 50% of our capital is what you describe the major projects that are going to deliver - help deliver the 3% to 5% growth the discretion the flexibility that we’re creating in the company is a lot more that capital going to the development drilling programs both the mature low cost supply Eagle Ford Bakken and then the less mature things that we’re doing in the Permian the Niobrara and up in Canada Montney Duvernay and what we’re doing internationally.
So that represents in the next couple of years over 70% of our capital.
So that capital is flexible and we’ll manage the capital level based on the commodity price environment that we see the opportunity set that’s in front of us and the cash flows that we have coming in as a company.
And it feels like even if you were let’s say to cut in the way that you’re describing already in fact CapEx next year the volume impact because of the fact these are more frontier type developments the volume impact actually is going to be fairly limited within the 2017 timeframe.
Is that correct -- I mean very limited I guess out there? Yes.
That’s exactly right Paul.
Our volume growth target is execution of the plans that we’ve had over the last couple of years it’s the investments we’ve made over last two years it’s the projects that we’ve been investing in for the last five or six years those are coming to fruition now this year and into next year.
So what we do whether it’s ‘15 or goes beyond ‘15 has very little impact on our plans and our production growth targets through 2017 that we outlined and described to the market over the last couple of years.
Right.
And then if I could just round it all off.
One thing I think is very small but I’d just highlight is that in the past you’ve talked about running with $2 billion I think of cash as a kind of working need but you today said $1 billion.
And secondly one thing that you did - is that what you just said sorry? Yes.
$1 billion is - would be the current offering.
The one thing did worry me Ryan was that you said that you would meet your targets in a normalized price environment.
Could you specify that because obviously that could mean awful lot of different things? I think what was the point we’re trying to make there Paul is when you look at cash margin those obviously are changing as commodity prices change.
So as we look at the shift that’s happening within our portfolio.
If you just pick one price environment no matter what price environment it was and stuck with that you’d see increasing cash margins.
So we’re trying to be very transparent on that Paul.
We’re showing you what each quarter is in terms of the actual but we’re trying to also ground back to when we described and launched the independent company described how we were going to grow both margins and volumes that we’re trying to report back to that basis.
I got you.
But what worries me is when you did that the oil was - and your planning assumption I think was 110 Brent if I remember rightly.
I mean it was way higher than we are today.
No I mean - we were quoted as saying that that’s not our planning assumption it’s not a $110 Brent back when we threw that out we just were using current prices to demonstrate.
Here is what the margin is today.
And if you track our performance relative to that you’ll see what the margin growth is doing.
So my point is the underlying margin growth is there but the absolute number is going to fluctuate and be a bit volatile quarter-to-quarter based on the absolute level of commodity prices.
But we’re trying to show that the volume growth is coming and it’s in a higher margin than the base part of the portfolio.
So the margin growth is coming and it will return to cash flow.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I recognize it’s late in the call.
So I’ll try to be fairly brief.
I’m sorry to flog the CapEx piece but I was wondering if you could define the absolute amount of spending that’s actually rolling over on a dollar basis from the major projects year-to-year? And then secondly I didn’t know if you can maybe define a level or price point where you would actually curtail spending on some of the more mature unconventional plays.
Well I’m not sure we’ll have to get back with you on the capital that’s rolling over from this year to next year but the price has to go pretty low before we start impacting the mature plays that we have in our unconventionals.
Okay the second question for you is on some of the issues on production in 4Q.
I think you’ve referenced three of them infrastructure in Malaysia ethane rejection and APLNG.
Just trying to get a sense of how transitory those are and [Inaudible] should those be kind of behind us into 1Q I am thinking maybe the ethane rejection piece is the only kind of wildcard? So based on current prices we would expect to be continuing to reject ethane through 2016 that we think stand just now -- and that’s about a third of the variance that we talked about.
On APLNG that was -- we were prepared to take the opportunity to sell ramp gas to one of the other ventures on Curtis Island their project hasn’t come in as quickly as they had anticipated so we don’t -- we were unlikely to be selling ramp gas to them.
And then on the KBB project we’re ready to start we’re going to start something in November but there is a pipeline that runs from - once the gas gets onshore there is the pipeline that runs from Sabah to Sarawak to take that gas to the Malaysia LNG plants.
And that pipeline has had some issues that need to be repaired.
And we’re not sure how long that’s going to take.
We certainly don’t expect it to be repaired before the end of the year and we’re assuming that maybe it’s as late as the middle of 2015 before we actually get that pipeline fully repaired and to full operation.
So that one will linger for a while in 2015.
Okay perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Blake.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks gentlemen.
A couple quick ones again one sort of follow-up maybe this is too specific on CapEx.
But I believe that your prior targets to reach cash flow neutrality were based around kind of a $100 Brent $90 WTI longer term.
And when we think about the amount of relative CapEx that might need to come out of the 2015 budget is this - should we think about kind of a mark-to-market on the commodity price and then we’ll try to bridge that gap on a year-by-year basis from here? No we’re not talking about trying to get to cash flow neutrality in 2015.
So as we go forth 2015 ‘14 to ‘15 you’re going to see cash flow growing as production grows from these major projects that we have starting up.
So you’re going to see that cash flow growth even in a lower commodity price environment that we’re seeing today the comment that Ryan was making is we still feel like we’re going to get to a cash flow neutrality number by 2016 2017.
And before we were at the higher prices that you talked about we’re at a point where we are actually beyond cash flow neutrality.
So we still feel like that’s a very doable thing for us to be doing.
We don’t have a number today that we can say that it’s going to be this amount of capital expenditures in 2016 or 2017 to get to that kind of cash flow neutrality.
Okay.
Thanks.
I wasn’t implying to cash flow neutrality in ‘15 I was implying relative to the plugging the gap relative to the prior plan to keep on pace for the 2017 time period.
But… I think you are -- if you think about our $20 change in price basically which is what we’ve had that’s about a $3 billion change in our cash flow.
Part of that is going to come from the fact that we are beyond cash flow neutrality and part of that would come from lower CapEx.
Okay.
So I guess one other question on a totally different issue.
In Alaska there has obviously been -- I mean we heard a lot of on the refining side from West Coast refiners about increasing competition as you see Bakken volumes or railed volumes reaching the West Coast and the impact on Alaska in crude pricing.
I guess in terms of your outlook on Alaska and crude pricing going forward what is the outlook what are the opportunities that you have I know you’ve done one cargo at least in terms of exporting that crude and what sort of price differential would you need or bottlenecks in the system are there in terms of exporting more of that crude to Asia? Well I think what we’re trying to show is we got a lot of flexibility.
So right now the market on the West Coast needs the ANS crude and we hear a lot about the Bakken railing there but we’ve got a lot of -- we’ve got flexibility.
We demonstrated that by taking a cargo to Asia.
We have the ability and the capability go do that obviously there is a bit more transportation cost associated with that.
So if ANS starts trading well below where it’s historically traded relative to either WTI or Brent then we can exercise the optionality we have of exporting that crude.
Okay great.
Thanks for the help.
Hey guys we’re past the hour.
So we’ll take one final question if you don’t mind operator.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for squeezing me in just one for me.
As we wait for APLNG to start-up and obviously watching LNG prices fall along with crude can you just remind us on what the off take arrangements are for the plant and any color on that would be helpful? Yes.
So all of the gas from 3 and 1 and 2 is contracted based on the Japanese crude cocktail prices.
So it’s all contracted.
But we have few spot cargos as we are ramping up production but once we get to full production it’s fully contracted to China and Japan.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks Pavel.
And thanks operator.
We’ll go ahead and shut it off here.
And thank you so much everybody for joining us today.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine and greetings to everybody.
Joining me in the room today are Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO; Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Matt Fox our EVP of E&amp;P.
Really three quick very administrative points before we launch into our remarks here we will make some forward-looking statements this morning.
The risks and uncertainties in our future performance are covered on page two of today’s deck and in our periodic filings with the SEC.
This information can also found on our website.
Next if you haven’t done so save the date for our 2015 Analyst Meeting on April 8th in New York City.
We will be providing some additional logistical details on that event soon.
And then finally during Q&amp;A this morning we are going to limit questions to one with a follow-up so we can accommodate the call queue we appreciate your support there.
So now let me turn the call over to Ryan.
Thank you Ellen and thanks to all our call participants this morning.
So I will start by making few quick comments about 2014.
Then I will jump into our view of 2015 and the actions we are taking to manage through this current period of very low prices.
Of course we are also spending a lot of time thinking about the future beyond 2015.
It’s bit early to talk about -- that today but as Ellen mentioned we will speak to that at our April Analyst Meeting where we will be ready to address our longer term view of the sector and how we are positioned to succeed.
So if you turn to slide four this is our company level set in chart that we show during every quarterly call.
Certainly ’14 seems like old news but I think it’s important to spend a minute recapping our results for the year.
Operationally we hit our volume targets and achieved 4% year-on-year growth and I think that’s pretty big accomplishment for a company our size.
The growth came from the startup of five major projects ongoing ramp up in the Eagle Ford and Bakken and a successful turnaround season across our operations and we also discovered two new oil plays in Offshore Senegal.
Financially we generated $6.6 billion of adjusted earnings or $5.30 per share for the year.
This includes fourth quarter adjusted earnings of $742 million or $0.60 a share.
Obviously reflecting weak fourth quarter prices.
We ended the year with $5.1 billion of cash on the balance sheet and also exceeded our price normalized cash margin growth target with more than an 8% improvement.
On the strategic front we achieved a strong organic reserve replacement ratio of 124%.
By the way the three-year average organic reserve replacement ratio is 153%.
We completed the final piece of our announced asset disposition program with the closing of the Nigeria sale and we increased our dividend by 5.8%.
That’s a quick summary.
The key takeaway here is that we did what we said we would do not just in ’14 but also over the past three years since the launch as an independent E&amp;P company.
We executed our stated plan almost to the letter and in the last quarter oil and gas prices began their accelerated decline.
So let me discuss what that price decline means for our company in 2015 if you will turn to slide five.
There is a lot of debate right now about the duration of the current low oil prices.
But we are assuming that they will stay low for 2015 and we are taking decisive actions accordingly.
Our actions are driven by our priorities which are unchanged since the time of the spin.
The dividend remains our top priority for capital allocation.
The next size priority remains getting to cash flow neutrality in 2017.
With these priorities in mind we are going to use our capital and the balance sheet flexibility to manage through this downturn.
So first CapEx this morning we announced a further reduction in 2015 capital to $11.5 billion.
That’s a $2 billion lower than the $13.5 billion that we announced in early December.
This means we cut capital by a third relative to 2014’s spending.
In making these cuts we are exercising flexibility we have built over the past few years coring up the portfolio adding scalable unconventional inventory with the low cost to supply and executing the vast majority of our major project spending.
And that’s why we can adjust our capital program while preserving future investment opportunities.
And in 2016 you will see more capital flexibility as additional major project spending continues to roll-off.
At our revised capital level we still expect to deliver 2% to 3% growth in 2015 versus 2014.
Now in addition to conserving capital through scope reductions we are aggressively identifying and capturing cost savings through our supply chain efforts.
At this time our revised $11.5 million budget anticipates capturing about $500 million of deflation in ’15.
Most of this will come from our Lower 48 unconventional business.
Now my management myself we review two dozen categories of costs globally every month and we are actively pursuing additional cost reductions for this year and beyond.
As one of the largest purchasers of industry goods and services globally we expect to benefit significantly in future years before any sustain deflationary cycle.
We are also looking beyond supply chain to reduce costs through self-help efforts.
As an example in Europe we recently announced operating cost and G&amp;A reductions and we will see additional cost reductions that are being implemented across the rest of the company.
In addition to managing OpEx and CapEx one of the flexibility levers we are prepared to use in 2015 is our balance sheet.
We are coming into this cycle in a strong position and that will serve us well.
We have cash on hand and the significant capacity that we can use and Jeff will provide more detail on those plans.
So we are taking the 2015 challenge on.
We are conserving CapEx.
We are aggressively pursing supply chain and self-help cost reductions.
We will utilize our financial capacity as needed.
We’ve adjusted rapidly to avoid jeopardizing our dividend or our ability to achieve cash flow neutrality by 2017.
These decisive actions combined with our flexibility should put us in a good stead to manage through this downturn.
So now let me turn the call over to Jeff and Matt and then I will come back for a few closing comments.
Thanks Ryan.
As Ryan mentioned our full year 2014 adjusted earnings were $6.6 billion our full year earnings slide is in the appendix but I will quickly cover fourth quarter earnings.
Fourth quarter 2014 adjusted earnings were $742 million or $0.60 a share.
Our operational performance was overshadowed by a roughly 20% drop in realized prices compared to prior periods and a previously announced dry hole in Angola.
Our segment breakdown of earnings is shown in the lower right with more detail provided in the supplemental data on our website.
There is one special item to note in the fourth quarter an agreement to terminate our long-term obligations at the Freeport LNG terminal took effect.
The ins and outs for the income statement and cash flow are shown in the appendix but as a result of the transaction the company anticipate saving about $50 million per annually over the next 18 years so this was a good long-term economic decision.
On slide eight I will cover our 2014 production from continuing operations.
We achieved two important milestones in 2014 namely hitting our growth targets for production and margin growth.
Our production growth for the year excluding Libya was 4% from 1 472 to 1 532 BOE per day.
The impact from downtime and dispositions was small and compared to last year our net growth was over 60 000 BOE per day primarily from liquids in area with favorable fiscals.
We also achieved our cash margin growth target and that’s shown on slide nine.
For 2014 we achieved an 8% cash margin improvement when normalized on 2013 prices.
Despite lower prices we are not going to lose our focus on cash margins and in fact it’s as important as ever.
Next I will review our 2014 cash flow waterfall on slide 10.
We started the year with $6.5 billion in cash and short-term investments and generated about $16 billion of cash from operating activities.
We captured about $1.2 billion of net proceeds from dispositions mostly from Nigeria.
Our 2014 capital expenditures were about $17 billion.
After accounting for dividends and debt we ended the cash -- we ended the year with $5.1 billion in cash.
Next I will address the balance sheet flexibility we are prepared to exercise in 2015 as needed.
So please turn to slide 11.
We've consistently spoken in the last several years about our plans to grow at a moderate rate while paying a strong dividend to our shareholders.
The growth in our cash flow was moving us to a position where cash from operations would fund our capital and the dividend in 2017 with the shortfalls in cash flows funded largely by asset sale proceeds.
With much lower commodity prices we like the rest of industry need to manage in an environment with reduced cash flow.
As Ryan mentioned even with this dramatic downturn we remain committed to our strong dividend and reaching cash flow neutrality in 2017.
And that's true across a wide range of commodity prices.
As Ryan also noted the first action we’ve taken is to exercise flexibility in our capital program which becomes more flexible over the next couple of years.
To achieve our priorities we will also be using our strong balance sheet capacity both cash balances and increased borrowings to provide funding this year and next.
So let me tell you how we are thinking about this? We ended 2015 with $5.1 billion of cash on our balance sheet and we need about a $1 billion of that cash to operate the company.
We don't have any issues with trapped cash that prevent us from accessing our cash balances.
We have ready access to the credit markets and our debt continues to trade at levels between those of A and AA rated companies.
The chart on the right shows indicative borrowing rates for any new issuances in today’s markets.
For short-term funding we have a $6 billion of revolving credit facility capacity that can serve as a backstop for the issuance of very low-cost commercial paper.
We don’t have any debt maturities in 2015.
As we assess commodity price environment both in 2015 and for the next few years we think it’s unlikely that we will need to increase our debt to a level that would cause our credit ratings to slip out of the single-A credit rating range.
Although it could move lower within the A range if we stay with the current commodity price environment for a long period.
Our current debt-to-capital ratio is about 30%.
We are willing to let that ride if necessary as we move the company to a balance of cash flows capital expenditures and dividends in 2017.
So to summarize we intend to maintain our strong dividend and continue exercising our increasing capital flexibility to move the company to cash flow neutrality in 2017.
Our level of capital spending rate of growth and the level of debt that we maintain will be the variables that would be influenced by commodity prices.
Now I will turn the call over to Matt for his operational comments.
Thanks Jeff.
I want to begin my comments with a brief recap of 2014 beginning with the review of our reserve performance.
These are preliminary numbers but we don’t expect any material changes when the final reserves are published in our 10-K.
We started the year with 8.9 billion BOE of reserves repurchased 598 million and added 742 million organically.
These additions came primarily from our Lower 48 APME and Canada assets.
This resulted in an organic reserve replacement ratio of 124%.
We also sold 159 million BOE mostly from Nigeria and ended the year with 8.9 billion barrels of reserves.
That represents a total reserve replacement ratio of 97%.
Over the past three years our total reserve replacement has averaged 129% and that’s after selling assets which generated about $14 billion of proceeds.
So let me put that all in perspective.
We were launched as an E&amp;P three years ago with 8.4 billion barrels of reserves on the books.
Over that time we’ve produced more than 1.5 billion barrels and sold over 400 million barrels and yet we will exit 2014 with 8.9 billion barrels of high-quality reserves on the books.
That’s pretty impressive for a company of our size.
Now I want to recap the 2014 operational highlights that contributed to our reserve performance and a 4% production growth.
As Ryan and Jeff mentioned we achieved our production growth target both for the fourth quarter and for the year.
Our base assets continued to perform well with strong safety performance and successfully completed several major turnarounds across the portfolio.
We achieved another strong year in the unconventionals with 35% annual growth in the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
We also conducted multiple pilot tests and progressed exploration and appraisal activities across our whole unconventional portfolio.
And as a result of this work we are confident that we have an extensive profitable engine in this place for many years to come.
We achieved startups of five major projects across the business: Britannia long-term compression in the U.K.
Foster Creek Phase F in the oil sands and Gumusut Kebabangan and SNP in Malaysia.
And we made significant progress on our largest major projects at APLNG and Surmont 2 in preparation for startup this year.
We saw progress in our deepwater program and particular with two discoveries in the new working petroleum system Offshore Senegal.
And we continued appraisal of three major discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico.
Yesterday was announced that we signed an agreement with Chevron and BP to jointly explore and appraise a 24 block area in Keathley Canyon.
That includes a Tiber and Gila discoveries.
This agreement allows our companies to combine our technical strengths and financial resources to achieve efficiency through scale which is subsurface risk and improve the likelihood of commerciality.
So this is a great deal for all three parties.
Next I will review the capital reductions we just announced and the implications for 2015 activities.
We will start from the $13.5 billion capital guidance we issued in December.
We are not reducing our base maintenance capital because we don’t want to jeopardize the strength of our base production or the integrity of our assets.
Our development program spending will be lower by about $1.4 billion.
Most of this is coming out of Lower 40 unconventionals where we have a lot of flexibility and where there is a sound economic rationale for slowing the pace of development.
In 2015 we will reduce rigs in the Lower Eagle Ford -- in the Lower 48 by over 60% versus 2014.
We plan to run six rigs in the Eagle Ford three in the Bakken and two each in the Permian conventional and unconventional.
At these levels we maintain our land position via longer-term rig commitments and can continue to progress key pilot tests.
We retain the flexibility to increase activity in this place of reduced.
We are also reducing capital for our major projects by defending final investment decisions in several conventional assets.
Just as a reminder our initial budget of $13.5 billion already reflected a significant reduction in this category compared to 2014 as projects were completed and as we near startup of APLNG and Surmont.
We also exercised $300 million of flexibility in our exploration and appraisal spend primarily in the emerging Lower 48 unconventionals.
As Ryan mentioned our $11.5 billion capital guidance assumes about $500 million of cost deflation.
This is why we have a clear line of sight to capture in 2014 but is early in the year and you can be assured that we have a significant focus on this effort across the whole value chain.
In 2016 and ‘17 the flexibility of our capital portfolio continues to improve as more major projects are completed.
And we believe that flexibility combined with the strong base portfolio positions us well for a potentially volatile few years ahead.
Next I’ll quickly cover our operational priorities for 2015.
We expect to grow production by 2% to 3% from 2014 to 2015.
And this includes an expected first quarter production rate of between $1.57 and $1.61 million barrels per day.
Walking through the segments in Alaska we’re focused on progressing our development drilling programs and major projects at CD-5 and Drill Site 2S.
Both projects are expected to start up in the fourth quarter of this year.
We intend to sanction the first phase of the Northeast West Sak development the 1H NEWS project and we’ll continue to progress a new rotary rig and new coil tubing drilling rig to optimize our long-term development drilling inventory in Alaska.
But we have decided to defer final investment decision on the GMT1 project.
New onshore Lower 48 unconventional activity will slow across the portfolio relative to 2014.
We’ll continue to evaluate pilot tests including the upper Eagle Ford with our triple stack development concept.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we’ll continue to appraise existing discoveries.
We have wells drilling at Gila and Tiber right now and anticipate additional appraisal well drilling in Shenandoah later this year.
In Canada we are adjusting our conventional and unconventional development drilling activity.
Oil sands production from Foster Creek F will continue to ramp up.
Surmont 2 is on track for first steam in mid-2015 and will commence exploration drilling offshore Nova Scotia later this year.
In Europe Ekofisk South and Eldfisk II continue to ramp up and we’ll continue to progress on the Enochdhu and older projects.
In the Asia-Pacific and Middle East segment APLNG is on track for startup in the middle of the year.
We’re ramping up Gumusut in Malaysia and we’re awaiting third-party pipeline repairs to have low production to ramp up at KBB which we expect to start in the middle of the year.
We’ll also complete appraisal of the Barossa Field offshore Australia.
And in our event in national segment we’ll continue to monitor circumstances in Libya evaluate the results of our recent testing in Poland begin appraisal work offshore Senegal and continue to execute our exploratory drilling programs in Angola and Columbia.
So again another busy year ahead of us.
And in any price environment we’re committed to safely executing our programs and delivering flexible growth for retaining high-value future auctions and inventory.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Ryan for his closing remarks.
Thank you Matt.
So let me recap what you’ve heard today.
I think we delivered again in 2014.
But certainly that was then and now it’s all about 2015 and it’s all about flexibility in Brazilians which we believe we have both.
Our priorities are clear dividend and cash flow neutrality.
And we’re taking immediate actions to defend them.
We’re cutting CapEx capturing cost improvements and exercising our balance sheet if needed.
And we’re also thinking about the timeframe beyond 2015.
We’re asking ourselves what's changed in our industry if anything for the longer term.
We’re testing our portfolio under different scenarios and again we’ll see what -- we’ll see that we have a resilient portfolio with flexibility to adapt if circumstances warrant.
Now some things might change but here’s what’s not going to change.
We’re going to allocate capital prudently.
We’ll continue to migrate our portfolio to a lower cost of supply.
We’ll maintain capital and financial flexibility and we’ll pay our shareholders first.
That’s our formula for creating long-term shareholder value.
And I look forward to seeing you and describing that in more detail in April in New York.
So with that now let me turn the call back over to the operator and we’ll take some Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Folks I wonder if I could dig into the cash flow neutrality question a little bit because obviously the dividend is still a big commitment for you guys.
When you separated Phillips you -- I think Jim at that time had talked about maintenance capital level of around $10 billion to hold production flat.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is to Matt's comments obviously that was $100 oil.
So one assumes that costs are going to drop at some point but also had a slightly different portfolio and you've had a bunch of new projects come online a longer life or will come online rather.
So what is that number today assuming -- as it stands today and maybe assuming some cost reductions over time? And I've got a follow-up please.
So I think the Doug a number of $9 to $10 billion to keep production flat is a good go-by from that.
It I mean it clearly is going to be a function of how much deflation we see this sustained deflation across the industry.
And -- but the -- a number of that sort of magnitude is good go-by for the time being.
So when you talk about cash flow neutrality I don't know if this is either Jeff or Matt but what commodity deck are you assuming when you think about that for 2017? That might be a comment that Matt made about capital.
That also depends on what kind of cost deflation we see in both capital cost and operating cost.
We don’t expect that prices are going to maintain at current levels for that period of time.
So we would be at cash flow neutrality at some improvement over current price levels but not at a level as high as what we’ve experienced recently.
So Doug what I would say is that we see modestly rising price that go over the course of the next few years but certainly not back to a level that we see in the last two or three years.
Got it.
My follow-up if I may Ryan is probably one for you.
It's really more of a high-level strategy question because we could debate over the years what the market looks for out of Conoco.
Your unique offering obviously is the dividend but top line for a company of your size is always going to be relatively modest at best.
So when you think about the trade-off between portfolio high grading bringing new projects on and perhaps monetizing or exiting other areas with the potential to buy back shares when you do get a windfall of oil prices as we may have just had the last several years.
How do you see the strategic rationale of continuing to pursue top line growth in a volatile oil price environment as opposed to continuous high grading with a very strong yield and the option to buy back stock? I'm just kind of curious as to how this oil price environment changes your thinking.
Yeah.
I think as I look out we probably should expect with some of the modest growth that we’re seeing in demand and really the resiliency that we see and the unconventionals having an impact on the supply we’re going to be in a more volatile world as we go ahead.
So as I think about that strategically for the company we’re trying to build the company that has a solid base of legacy assets low production decline the things that you can underpin the dividend with overtime.
So as we bring on the oil sands our legacy assets in Alaska what we’re doing in Europe in the North Sea what we’re building in Asia-Pacific.
And then on top of that we’re moving to lower cost of supply in the portfolio through the addition of the unconventional portfolio that we’re developing here in North America.
And that provides us a lot of resilience and flexibility to the capital.
So we’ll see what you commodity price gives us we’ll protect the dividend first and then with what’s left over in the cash flow we’ll fund a capital program that will set the growth that we see coming out of that because we know the growth is directly related to that capital program.
When it comes to share buyback we will just assess what we have in terms of capital opportunities in the portfolio if they are good strong returns which we think they're going to be with the unconventional inventory that we have.
We will judge that against the opportunity for share buyback down the road.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
Ryan one of your competitors indicated today that service costs have not declined as much as might be expected given the decline in oil and gas prices.
And while there is always going to be lag effects and different contract durations and other things I want to see if you would elaborate further on what ConocoPhillips has seen in the market and whether service costs lag effects were an important factor in today’s reduction in spending or there is lower prices? And then also some of the specific initiatives that you guys were undertaking that led to the $500 million benefit that you talked about a few minutes ago.
Yeah sure Doug I can chime in and Matt is even closer to it than I am so I can let him add some color to it if he would like.
But we’ve -- so as he said we are seeing reductions as we -- as rigs start rolling off onshore rig rates will be coming down.
We are seeing pumping services and some of the commodities and we are tracking each of those.
We have 20 different categories that we track on the supply chain side and we are looking at them pretty closely.
So a lot of those are coming to the capital side some go to the OpEx side.
What we said is we’ve got pretty clear line of sight to the $500 million of reductions that we factored in but those are going to continue as this commodity price environment continues into 2015 and depending on the recovery that we see coming into 2016.
We are all over it.
We are looking to try to capture as much of that as we can.
The interesting sort of piece that you get although reductions and the flexibility that we’re exercising is in North America and that’s where we expect to see a lot of the first reductions from capturing the deflation.
So I don’t know Matt -- I think that’s where we are all over Doug and here is as much as we can out of it and as quickly as we can.
Okay.
Well thanks a lot guys.
Thank you Doug.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I would like to dig into I guess CapEx and flexibility or just a little bit more.
And you cite your maintenance CapEx is around $9 billion to $10 billion.
But when you sit back and look at kind of major project spend as I think you cited you’re seeing a reduction in 2016 2017.
Can you give us a sense of what the size of that might be and how much you guys think you need to spend annually on those longer-dated projects whether you have them today or you need to build them for kind of long-term growth opportunities? Well as we move from 2015 and 2016 we will see about $2 billion coming out of our major capital projects CapEx requirements just from Surmont and APLNG.
So that’s why we’re referring to have significant increase and flexibility from '15 to '16 and that trend continues the several hundred millions not billions of barrels as we go from '16 -- billions of dollars as we go from '16 to '17 but that trend of reducing capital going to major projects and increasing capital going to the flexible low cost to supply development program.
That’s an underlying part of the strategy that we’ve been executing for the past few years.
And we are in the middle of that and adjustments to overall investment portfolio right now and for the next couple of years.
Okay.
So if I can kind of clarify if I look at that $11.5 billion 2015 budget call it you will take out $2.5 billion for some of these major projects and that gets you to somewhat that maintenance capital level? That’s the good way of thinking about it.
And that’s close enough.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And one follow-up question then on your rig count reductions obviously it was pretty meaningful in the U.S.
onshore.
And when you look at plays like the Bakken Eagle Ford and Permian can you give us sense when you are drilling your projects today when you sit there and look at three four and six rig counts you assume that this will be economic at currency spot prices strip priced or better price? And just to give you some context I know there is a lot of debate whether or not the Bakken is economic today so why should there be any rigs drilling there today.
Yes.
So we are in the sweet spot of the Bakken and we can -- with the rig rates and the rates that we are getting it’s economic at current conditions but we are actually taking that all the way down to three rigs this year.
We do have some commitments within some of the units and the Bakken where we have to run some rigs in the Bakken.
The Eagle Ford is still very economic even at the current prices.
But having said it makes more economic sense to be fair.
So what we are dealing with in the Eagle Ford is that a balance of we have some commitments.
We need to run probably three legs to meet commitments on our leasehold and we are also keen to continue to learn on Eagle Ford because we have a huge inventory to develop over the next couple of decades and we want to make that we are capturing all the learnings.
So we’ve chosen to continue with some of our pilot tests as we go through 2015.
And our expectation is that some of the capital flexibility appears more into next year they were likely to increase our rig count and take advantage of what maybe higher prices but certainly will be deflated costs.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Addressing the service costs another way are you getting discounts from book rates or are you going to be able to get longer-term rates at discount or is it too early regarding fracking the rigs etcetera? So there is a mixture both going on John.
I mean this isn’t a great time to enter into long term commitments.
We waited until we see how the deflation works its way through the system but we are working with the suppliers.
We’ve got great relationship with the suppliers and we’re looking at across the spectrum of things influence the capital and operating cost and making judgments everyday on what the most prudent thing to do as in terms of contract duration and commitments against reducing costs that we are seeing.
Okay.
Thanks Matt.
One other question.
It’s a more volatile world.
Given the short cycle nature of shale based activity would you ever institute a hedging program for the shale or just given your size realistic? Yeah I think the latter is the case John.
With our size we are naturally hedged across a lot of commodities and the markers.
So given our size of where we are at we don’t see that is a useful strategy right now.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Guy Baber of Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everybody.
Hello Guy.
I had question on your 2015 production.
And I was trying to get a better sense of the general trend as we progress through the year especially for the US unconventional portfolio.
So could you help frame for us perhaps what kind of the 2015 exit rate production expectations might be for Lower 48 on the current capital spending plans and then any early expectations on 2016 with current rig count levels would be much appreciated? And then I have a follow-up.
Well Guy I think you are really trying to focus in on unconventionals in that portfolio.
So to give you a sense of that we expect a production from the Eagle Ford and Bakken will grow from about 200 000 barrels a day in 2014 to about 225 000 a day in 2015 so somewhere between the 10% and 15% increase.
That production growth is all going to come through the first half of the year.
And then if we state the rig counts that we said just now we’re going again to a slow decline in both the Bakken and the Eagle Ford.
Not a rapid decline but a slow decline and that’s going to continue into early 2016.
So early 2016 average rate will be -- is going to be a function of the numbers of rigs we decide to run and we -- and as I said earlier we do expect to increase our rigs in Eagle Ford and Bakken in ‘16 so production maybe flat from ‘15 to ’16 but time will tell.
So growing production on average year-on-year from ‘14 to ‘15 all of that growth is seen in the early part the first half of the year and then a slow decline through the third and fourth quarter.
That’s very helpful Matt.
And then my follow-up I wanted to kind of walk through some of the implications of the low rig count.
And you partially address this in your prepared comments Matt.
But how do you think about reduced investment levels materially but still retaining the practical ability to quickly flex those activity levels higher if the commodity price improves? And then secondly can you just address just with the focus on minimizing spending and maximizing efficiencies.
Your ability to still continue with some of your experimentation to drive a long-term recourse upside I mean are those plans still going to in place in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken as well with the lower rig count? So any comments you can provide there would be great.
Yeah.
So we -- the organization that we have in the Lower 48 is flexible enough to bring the rigs down and bring the rigs back up if we want to do that.
So that flexibility exists.
And we’re exercising our flexibility now and we done and we will be able to do it on the way back up again.
So the organizational flexibility and the relationships with the suppliers and so on that’s all in hand to go both ways.
And in terms of the continued experimentation yeah we have to chock back somewhat on the pace of learning.
We can’t do all of the pilot tests that we’d like to do because you need to be drilling wells to do some of those.
But the critical pilot tests that really have the biggest implications for our long-term resource and understanding.
We’re going to continue with those sort of pilot tests through this downturn because they have implications of the value of our information for the long-term.
We think is worth continuing to collect.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Hey folks.
Good morning.
I have a question on slide seven.
It looks like you provide the regional breakout of your adjusted earnings.
And it looks I hate to put a too much emphasis on just one quarter but it looks like the Lower 48 actually saw a loss compared to the other regions and then obviously you’re cutting CapEx in the Lower 48 as well? I guess my view is that that was one of the main drivers of margin expansion going forward? And so could you maybe elaborate a little bit on the economics that you’re seeing there compared to the other investment opportunities that you have? So Blake in the Lower 48 in the fourth quarter there were around $100 million or so of an impairments that happened between and then also some dry hole cost related to the Shenandoah appraisal well that we wrote out as well which impacted that loss somewhat.
But having said that it will be a challenging year coming forward for Lower 48 based on the fact that there is still a fairly heavy natural gas weighting in the Lower 48 production.
It is as Matt mentioned the economics are still there for continued investments that we are making and those are good cash margin investments.
But it is going to be a challenging 2015 at current commodity price levels in the Lower 48.
Sure.
Understood.
Okay.
And then the second question is on the commitment to the dividend.
I fully appreciate kind of the differentiated strategy and having that as a top priority? But you kind of mentioned debt-to-capita increase and potentially investment grade could go below AA or A? Is there a level that we should kind of think about where you begin to have to rethink that that strategy and emphasis on the dividend whether it would be investment grade rating or certain debt-to-cap level? As we mentioned in our remarks on call we look at a lot of different scenarios that might happen over the next couple of years.
We think between the capital flexibility that we have the potential that we could have some level of asset sales in the mix and the cash balance that we’re starting with.
So we don’t think we’re going to be having to face the question of having more borrowings than would take us out of that A credit rating range.
With -- and again that’s part of the overall message here is that that’s baking in the dividend is the first priority for how we’re using our cash flow.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
A - Ryan Lance Hi Paul Good afternoon.
And couple quick question if I could.
Maybe this is for Matt and Jeff.
If you are looking at your supply cost do you have a rough percentage? How much of that supply cost is currently under contract longer than two years? Supply cost you mean like our rigs and so on? Yeah.
Rig or anything that relate to your upstream operation.
And well in our North America business and certainly in Canada on the Lower 48 there is a very very little that extends beyond one year.
And in terms of rig contracts most of them are 30 days if we move to the international business there is some in U.K.
and Alaska there and Norway that are on longer term contracts than that.
But it’s typically it’s not common for us to have a significant amount of our drilling development led portfolio and constrained by long-term contracts.
So should we -- Matt should we assume that more than 50% of your supply cost base that you could potentially not seeing cost reduction relatively quick timeline? Say that again.
You are looking at the opportunities to get deflation and to ….
That’s correct.
But how quickly that [indiscernible] because you have a lot of your surface is under long-term contract and maybe that you can negotiate even though that you are still under contract but normally that people don’t like to allow that but -- so that’s what I am trying to understand.
How quickly is that the saving will be able to pass-through? So when me see it most quickly in the onshore and North American business in this and particularly in Canada in Lower 48.
We’re not going to see it for example in the APLNG project.
We are now almost a 100% labor cost.
We’re not likely to see labor cost in Australia decrease over the next year.
And same applies really to the Surmont 2 project in Canada where that’s all labor just now and we don’t anticipate any significant labor cost reductions over the next few months as we complete the project.
So the short answer is that the major projects are going to see limited and slower deflationary and forces act on them and the development programs everywhere but in particular in Canada and Lower 48 are going to see it more quickly.
Okay.
Second question this is for Ryan.
Ryan understand your priority in protecting dividend.
What is as the industry under stress and there’s a great opportunity of rise and you make a choice between making an acquisition but that has to dramatically cut your dividend subsequently to ensure that you have sufficient cash flow going forward? What that how that choice will be made from your standpoint? I mean how you balance that? Well Paul it’s an interesting scenario to try to think about that but it’s a tough one to anticipate a little bit over because we’re focused on executing the plan that we have.
We watch the M&amp;A market.
We see the assets that are out there.
The issue with M&amp;A in our portfolio is it’s got to compete against the investments that we have in the portfolio already today.
And it’s a pretty big hurdle for it to climb over.
So I wouldn’t speculate on where that might go.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Maybe one follow-up on activity levels and balance sheet.
I guess as we look forward into 2016 -- you probably implied on reaching the 2017 cash flow neutrality target even if the current capital CapEx balance and dividend rate would imply relatively significant ramp in cash flow potentially from commodity prices in the 2017 as is so.
What would you need to see -- I guess in the market either from a cost or from a commodity point of view to actually start adding capital back to the budget as apposed to just letting things play out through 2017? So what we said is that I mean that we are going to have a lower capital to be flexible and to manage within our cash flow and maintain the dividend so the capital is going to flex and we have the portfolio to allow that to happen.
So when we say that we are going to get to cash flow neutrality in 2017 there is a bunch of different ways that that could transpire.
It could transpire through higher prices with more capital and more production or lower prices with less capital and less production growth.
So we model all of these scenarios and we are planning to talk more about this Ryan when we have our Analyst Day in April.
The capital Ryan is the flywheel.
So again we started with dividends being the number one priority.
We’ll fund that out of the cash flow.
The growth will come from whatever capital level that we set in the commodity price and the cash flows informs that.
And then we are setting that level to make sure that we reach cash flow neutrality by 2017.
And as Matt said across very scenarios of combination of capital and oil price projections we are focused on getting there in 2017.
Hey.
I appreciate lots of moving pieces in the equation.
Just trying to get an idea if there is a level that you would think about that would have to see at least to actually star -- to star putting some money back into the business incrementally from what you have now? We won’t let cash flow neutrality move out beyond 2017.
So I think that’s the stakes you can put in the ground Ryan.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
It could move closer depending on the commodity price levels and what the market gives us.
That’s helpful.
And then if I could ask on the -- on what you are seeing on the cost environment.
I know you talked a little bit -- am I correct in understanding that the vast majority of the $500 million CapEx catch that you’ve implied in the budget today that have come in the U.S.
and if -- and either way can you talk a little bit -- we have a little bit more visibility I think generally in what we see in the U.S? But can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing globally on cost across deepwater or major capital price and those types of things in the current environment? Well.
I think Matt’s trying to address that.
And we see it will be slower in the major projects and those like APLNG and Surmont that have a large labor component.
That’s going to take a long time to work through the system depending on how long the down cycle is .We do see deepwater floater rigs coming off quite a bit.
So the market today is quite a bit less than it was just a couple or a year ago maybe this time a year ago.
So we do see pieces of that tubular goods Oil Country Tubular Goods we see that coming down and that’s a commodity that we use across the world.
So where we have development in drilling programs and we use workovers and stuff we see some of that flowing through as well.
So it is -- my category it’s different by each category and it’s different around the world.
And the $500 million that we were talking about is something that we’ve got pretty clear line of sight on to capture this year and that will continue into ‘16.
Thank you our next question is from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Good discussions so far and I am going to have to stick with CapEx then ask some smaller questions.
Just on the $4.5 billion of major project spend given that you do have APLNG heavy oil and some large projects in Malaysia that are going to finish hopefully at some point in ‘15.
It might be a help to us to maybe give us some color as to just on the existing projects.
How might that look in 2016 forget cost deflation but just the timing of the -- CapEx cycle? So roughly speaking the -- we are going to see -- so let me give you some specifics.
So APLNG will grow from something like $1.6 billion this year to 0 next year.
Surmont will grow from about $800 million this year to about $250 million next year.
So there is a tip that few have been sort of high level.
And yes few of those biggest projects -- so there are few projects that are increasing in capital year-on-year which has been the clear rich projects and as towards closer we’ll see a slight increase in capital there next year.
And same with the Malikai project in Malaysia but overall we are going to see something greater than $2 billion coming off the -- in the mix between those larger the biggest projects we’re executing coming to an end and some smaller projects that are already in execution ramping up a bit.
With the cash flow from those and then that provides more confidence to add back rigs into shell so...
Well that’s right.
-- Actually you make a good point there.
Because one other things about the projects like APLNG and Surmont for example is they’ll start producing this year.
But it won’t actually got to a peak raise for a full year until 2017.
So they are going to be continuing to contribute the growth long after the capital spend even as the Surmont project takes three years to ramp up APLNG won’t actually get to peak production until some time early in 2016.
And the KBB project in Malaysia we might only get half -- despite the fact of the project is complete but waiting on this pipeline being appeared we might only get half a year of production from KBB this year.
But we get full year of production in 2015 and so on.
I mean so this will be -- and we are happy that these major projects that they are getting to completion not just because of that to spend the CapEx but because now we are going to reap the reward over the next several years of contributing growing our base productions through these long life -- many of the long life flat production projects.
Okay.
So little bit more point on Matt said as well.
If you go back to our Analyst Presentation last April we talked some numbers about how much cash we are going to expect to see coming out APLNG and out of FCCL once those things are up and running kind of a full rates by 2017.
And those are lower numbers of oil commodity prices but it’s still a pretty significant source of cash for us.
And that is an important part of the equation of getting the cash flow neutrality in 2017 And just on APLNG just as a follow-up how will you be treating I guess the CBM drilling cost? Would that be in CapEx or you put that in the OpEx just more of the modeling question.
The maintenance CapEx on that project which can be quite significant I think? Yeah.
Because the fact that APLNG is done with equity accounting for asset and you don’t end up seeing the capital expenditure for APLNG or the operating costs for you to see contribution in current -- say the contributions going in as capital and we’ll just see the distributions coming back out in the future.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Alastair Syme of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
I wonder if I could ask to what extent in this environment the OpEx and overhead might be the flywheel in terms of cash neutrality.
If you could put some granularity around the comments you’ve made about G&amp;A cost would be useful? Yes.
Alastair we have talked a lot about the capital but we have -- we are equally focused on the operating cost here as you would expect.
And just like we are focused across the value chain per capital deflation opportunities in capital the same things happening in operating cost.
First of all end cost are externally driven by contract labor materials and chemicals and there are some of that price sensitivity to transportation cost and some of our transportation contracts.
But we got to look inside to for sale productions -- looking at internal operating cost and G&amp;A.
So we’re ready to take in actions there.
We have -- we really have no salary increases in 2014.
We got hiring fees in place across most of the company.
We are ready for those plans to reduce headcount in Europe.
That’s quite significant.
And we’re likely to see more headcount reduction in other part of the business as we re-asses the implications of lower prices on a future plans.
So we’ve the whole company focused on minimizing our operating cost and we’re not going to leave any stone unturned.
We’re not going to take any measures that reduces the safety or integrity of our assets.
And that is one of the things Alastair that we intend to talk about in more details at the Analyst Day in April our approach to the operating cost side of the equation.
Could you say how much of your operating cost of supply given versus in terms of what percentage roughly? It’s about let’s say that it’s roughly 30% as internal and a company labor.
And then the rest is a mixture of transportation cost contract labor material parts about 30% is a ConocoPhillips internal employee labor.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Alastair.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Reid of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hello Roger.
I guess coming at the OpEx question slightly different way we talked a lot about CapEx flexibility.
As you think about the cash margin potential here and I think about the share play certainly where they were probably a little more on the higher cash cost side certainly looking across the industry.
So as you pull back a little bit on your drilling there as we look at some of the projects and probably more of a '16 than a '15 impact from APLNG and Surmont.
But what do you think about cash margins as you look into the latter part of '15 and '16? We expect the absolute level of cash margin will come down with the commodity prices obviously.
But as we look at across the portfolio most of the portfolio is quite resilient to -- on a cash breakeven basis it’s pretty resilient to these prices.
So we are going -- as Matt said we’re going to continue to drive operating cost reductions as well as the capital reductions.
And while the absolute level of margin will probably come down we’re still going to try to drive to see those margin improvements over the course of the next couple years.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then maybe a better question April.
But as you think about the exploration program here as part of the overall CapEx discipline and keeping the dividend in mind flexibility obviously on the growth projects.
What is the flexibility of exploration and what is the maybe incentive here as you mentioned with lower rig rates to shift things out another 6 or 12 months where you can? Okay.
So on the short-term aspect of that question in terms of the flexibility in our exploration spend there is relatively limited flexibility in the short term on the conventional exploration activity.
And we have rigs under contracts.
We have agreements in place with the governments and the partners.
So over the next year through 2015 that’s why we haven’t taken as much as you may expect the exploration will really have to go to the possible exploration portfolio that is flexible.
So we are going to think the 2015 is actually a pretty big year for exploration in Angola Senegal Gulf of Mexico Nova Scotia for example and Australia.
And so we -- then as a longer-term question about the role of exploration and the growth of the company and that’s one of the thing we’re going to talk about more in the Analyst Day in a couple of months.
Thank you.
Sorry Christine I'm seeing it's the top of the hour we will take one more question if you don’t mind okay.
Okay.
Our last question is from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for sneaking me in.
Two quick ones.
One is just the budget for this year is it fair to say that the 11.5 is kind of set in stone at this point absent further deflation given that you have $2 billion rolling out for the next year and the 9.5 is kind of the core required spend? So if you got anymore this year you would be kind of cutting into the data so to speak.
Yeah.
We’ve got a set the scope that we want to execute with the $11.5 billion.
There is some uncertainty as to how much deflation we will capture this year.
We’ve added some in could be more than that.
We’re certainly trying to drive to more than that.
Yes we’ve set the scope associated with what we want to execute on the $11.5 billion.
Got it.
And then just a follow-up.
Just on the asset sales started maybe any additional color you could provide around how you might approach the process like that? What parts of the portfolio might be something you would want to monetize in this type of environment? Well we continue to look.
I’ve said we won’t have another large announced asset disposition program but you should expect us every year to be pruning the bottom part of the portfolio.
Obviously it gets tougher in this kind of commodity price environment.
But we set our new base case.
We know that the assets are worth to us internally.
And if there is interest out there in certain assets we’ll entertain those and look at them.
So I think you should expect some modest amount.
It will be tougher over the next couple of years but of course there will be some pieces of our portfolio that we will be taking a hard look at.
So you think you can get $500 million to $1 billion in cash a year out of assets sales.
Are any kind of target you are thinking about? No I don’t really have a target in mind.
We’ll do what makes sense.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Okay.
Christine why don’t you wrap it up here? And thanks everybody for your time.
And by all means call IR if you have any other additional questions.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the ConocoPhillips First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis VP Investor Relations and Communications in ConocoPhilips.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Adrian and welcome to all of at calls participants today.
I'm joined this morning by Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer; and Matt Fox our EVP of Exploration &amp; Production.
On this morning's call Jeff will cover the first quarter financial result as well as our guidance items for the rest of the year and Matt will review the operational highlights for both the quarter and the rest of the year out coming.
During Q&amp;A please we would ask that you would limit your questions to one plus a follow-up.
Our page 2 contains our SAFE HARBOR statement we'll make some forward-looking statements this morning and as always we would ask you to refer our periodic filings with the SEC for description of the risk and uncertainties in our future performance again thank you for participating and now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Ellen hello everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As you know we recently held our 2015 Analyst and Investor meeting in New York where we launched our new three year operating plan and provided details on our long term growth opportunities from our large low cost to supply resource base.
We outlined our capital and production plans for next year and how we will achieve cash flow neutrality in 2017 in a arranged to commodity prices.
We also reaffirmed our commitment to compelling dividend.
In the first quarter results we will discuss this morning we are going to describe a quarter with strong production growth and good cost control the one where weak commodity prices over shadowed strong operational performance.
If you'll turn to Slide 4 I'll cover our key highlights for the first quarter.
We produced 1.61 million BOE per day which is growth of 5% compared to the same period last year.
Adjusted for Libya dispositions and downtime.
We achieved first production at Eldfisk II by an indent Phase 3 and then Brodgar H3 subsea tie-back.
We also advanced five major projects toward startup by the end of the year.
And that includes our two major projects with Surmont II and APLNG.
Financially our earnings were materially impacted by low prices.
We had a $222 million loss or $0.18 per share after adjusting out special items.
We generated 2.1 billion in cash from operation excluding impacts from working capital and ended the quarter with 2.7 billion in cash.
Costs are our big focus this year.
At our analyst and investor meeting we announced the goal to reduce operating cost by $1 billion in 2016 versus 2014 and we are already moving to needle.
We’ve made significant progress on capturing deflation capital benefits on our capital program which we also outlined at our analyst meeting.
Strategically announced our new three year operating plan that provides predictable growth for about 11.5 billion of capital per year.
We’re making good progress on implementing that plan this year as we ramp down activity across the portfolio.
We still grow high margin volumes in this CapEx level and in 2015 we plan to deliver production growth from continuing operations without Libya of 2% to 3% compared to 2014.
Now I'll turn the Slide 5 for our more of discussion on earnings.
Production came in the high end of guidance we also saw improvement in our cost which as we discussed in the analyst meeting includes production and operating cost SG&amp;A and exploration expenses but excluding dry holes and leasehold impairment.
Those costs improved 7% compared to the first quarter of last year.
When you adjust out the restructuring charges which were a special item for the quarter you see a 12% improvement in our cost.
However sharply lower prices overwhelmed that performance.
We realized prices were down 30% compared to last quarter and down 48% compared to the first quarter of 2014.
That contributed to the first quarter adjusted loss of $222 million or the $0.18 per share.
First quarter segment adjusted earnings were showing a lower right part of this chart.
The financial details for each segment can be found on the supplemental date on our website and segment earnings are roughly in line with our sensitivities except for the lower 48 where adjusted earnings were differentially impacted by lower realizations both in absolute terms and relative to markers.
This impact wasn’t just from crude but also from NGLs and natural gas.
Lower 48 earnings also reflected the previously announced dry hole expense from Harrier.
And the other international segment adjusted earnings were driven by the MOC 1 dry hole in Angola.
If you’ll turn to Slide 6 I’ll summarize our production results for the quarter.
Our projections slide follows our usual convention and continuing operations excluding Libya.
Our first quarter production averaged 1.61 million BOE per day compared to 1.53 million BOE per day in the first quarter of 2014.
The waterfall shows downtime and dispositions were essentially flat year-over-year that leaves net growth of 82 000 BOE per day or 5% growth compared to last year.
And of the 82 61 of the improvements comes from liquids that’s mostly from oil pants in Canada and conventional in the Lower 48 and Gumusut Malaysia.
Gas was up 21 and some from that’s from domestic gas sales at APLNG that will turn to LNG over time.
Now if you turn to the next Slide I will review our cash flow waterfall.
We started the year with 5.1 billion in cash.
During the quarter we generated 2.1 billion from operating activities.
And this reflects an environment where Brent was at $54 and WTI was at 48.50 and as you know current prices in the strip are higher than these numbers.
Moving to the chart we saw a negative impact of about $300 million from working capital.
For the quarter we spent 3.3 billion in capital expenditures in investments.
As you would expect the capital is front end loaded and tapers off through the year as we complete our major projects and ramp down our activity in unconventionals so that number is not ratable.
After paying our dividend we ended the quarter with 2.7 billion of cash from the balance sheet.
Before I leave this slide let me mention an item that you’ll notice on the cash flow statement in our supplemental information regarding deferred taxes.
In the quarter we had -- $555 million benefit to earnings as results of change in tax laws in the UK.
This was a special item and not included in our adjusted earnings.
This income benefit did not create an immediate cash flow benefit so on the cash flow statement the income benefit is reversed out on the deferred tax line which is why the deferred tax line on cash flow shows a large negative this quarter.
Without this tax law change deferred taxes would have been about an $85 million use of cash in the quarter.
I’ll wrap up my comments on the next slide with some guidance for the rest of the year.
We provided guidance at our Analyst and Investor Meeting earlier this month.
We’re not making any changes to the guidance but I do want to walk through some of the trends and profiles as we go through the year since most of our first quarter metrics aren’t ratable.
We remain on track to achieve our 2% to 3% production growth this year.
Our second quarter projection guidance is 1.555 to 1.595 million BOE per day.
This reduction from our first quarter mostly reflects the start of our seasonal major turnaround activity.
As I just mentioned we expect capital to decrease throughout the year and we remain on track for 11.5 billion of capital this year.
Our operating cost guidance of 9.2 billion remains unchanged we did better on a run rate basis in the first quarter and as we continue to work on lowering cost.
We could see further improvement in our cost guidance for the year especially if the U.S.
dollar stays strong but we’re holding to the current guideline for now.
We expect cost to be higher in the second and third quarters as we go into turnaround season.
We’ll also see some higher costs in the fourth quarter associated with our major project start up.
There is no change to our exploration dry hole and impairment guidance of 800 million for the year.
We were higher than that rate in this quarter and we’ll keep you updated throughout the year.
DD&amp;A look a little low on run rate but we expect to end the year at about 9 billion.
This reflects mix shift changes and major projects coming online through the year.
Finally our corporate segment is in line with the guidance.
That concludes the review of our financial performance and guidance.
The theme you should be hearing is that we’re focused on executing a prudent plan and we’re delivering on our operational commitments.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Matt for an update on our operations.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
To begin I’ll quickly go through our segment results for the quarter and then conclude with the preview of some key activities to look out for in 2015.
As Jeff mentioned we had a strong operationally achieving high end of our production guidance and we did that while reducing capital and operating cost and maintaining our relentless focus on safety.
So let’s jump into review of the segment performance starting with the Lower 48 in Canada on Slide 10.
In the Lower 48 first quarter production averaged 542 000 BOE per day that’s a 7% overall increase from the first quarter of last year and represents a 16% increase in crude oil production.
Production drill in the conventionals but as we’ve previously announced grew to begin to slow as we see the impact of reducing the number of rigs in operation.
Overall in Lower 48 we had 15 operated rigs running at the end of April which is more than a 50% reduction from the end of 2014.
As a result of fewer rigs we expect production growth to slow in the second quarter and begin a slight decline in the same half of year.
In our recent Analyst and Investor Meeting we gave you a lot of details on pilot tests and were continuing to run those test across the segment.
In addition to our unconventional activities in a Lower 48 exploration and appraisal activity continues in deepwater Gulf for Mexico.
We currently have appraisal wells drilling at Gila and Tiber and unfortunately Harrier was a dry hole.
Next we’ll cover Canada.
We saw a strong growth from our Canadian business segment during the quarter.
We produce 318 000 BOE per day a 14% year-over-year increase.
This growth came primarily from our oil sands assets with Bitumen productions increasing 26% compared to the first quarter of 2014.
In Western Canada we successfully completed our winter drilling program with activity focused primarily in the Clearwater [Blair] and Montney areas.
This activity will reduce as we ramp down our rigs from a high of 10 in the quarter to 2 for the remainder of the year.
And the oil sands were seeing strong performance from Christina Lake and Foster Creek the production continuing to ramp up at Foster Creek Phase F and at Sermont II construction is more than 93% complete and final preparations are underway and anticipation of first theme by the middle of the year.
Next I will cover off our Alaska and Europe segments from Slide 11.
Alaska's average production was an 186 000 BOE per day and activity this quarter was focused on several major projects.
CD5 and new development on the west side of [Alpine] is more than 75% complete drilling is already commenced and were moving ahead with pipeline and module instillation.
At drill site 2S facility construction is on schedule and driven will commenced in the second quarter.
Both CD5 and 2S or on schedule for startup in the fourth quarter of this year.
And we sanctioned the first phase of the north east-west act development the 1H NEWS project in March and we expect to see first production in 2017.
In addition to progress on these projects we resumed operations of the Kenai LNG plan with exports expected to recommence in May.
Moving on to Europe first quarter production averaged 209 000 BOE per day.
We saw two startups this quarter at the Eldfisk II and Brodgar.
Eldfisk II production will continue to ramp through the year as we bring additional wells online and the Brodgar H3 subsea tie-back well achieved first gas in March.
Enochdhu is also progressing on schedule and should start in the third quarter.
Now let's review Asia specific and Middle East segments and other international segments on Slide 12.
In APME we produced 351 000 BOE per day in the first quarter this is 10% increase compared to the first quarter of last year.
Primarily as a result of new production from major projects starts up at Gumusut and S&amp;P in Malaysia.
The Gumusut 2014 production system in continuing to ramp up with full fuel production currently exceeding a 150 000 BOE per day on a gross basis.
At KBB production remains constrained awaiting third party pipeline repairs.
We achieve first gas from Bayu Undan Phase III program in March and production is continuing to ramp up.
The APLNG project was more than 90% complete at the end of March we achieve first fire from one of our gas turbine generate as in April and we’re progressing towards startup in the third quarter.
In our other international segment we’re continuing to focus on our exploration and the appraisal programs in Angola we spotted the Vali well this month and we’ll update you on a progress there next quarter.
We announced the dry hole at Omosi where we encountered the gas column and subsequently plugged the well.
In Senegal planning continues for an appraisal program in the fourth quarter.
Finally in Libya our production remains shut in due to ongoing unrest and it remains out of our production guidance for the year.
I'll wrap up my prepared remarks on Slide 13 with some key activities to watch in 2015.
As Jeff mentioned we’re on track to deliver 2% to 3% production growth this year.
For the second quarter we expect to produce 1.555 to 1.595 million BOE per day.
The key driver is a typical turn around activity which you see in the upper right chat.
Our major turnaround activity for the year is schedule in Alaska Europe and APNE in the second quarter and third quarter.
These large turnarounds staring June so we’ll see an impact on production in the second quarter with a more significant impact in the third quarter.
In the Lower 48 we expect production to begin to decline in the second half of the year reflecting our reduce rate count.
As I just mentioned we ended April with 15 rigs and we expect to run 12 rigs through the second half of the year.
Moving to major projects there are 5 startups expected before the end of the year Surmont 2 APLNG Enochdhu CD5 and Drill Site 2S.
Production from these five projects were minimal in 2015 but will provide momentum going into 2016.
We also have exploration and appraisal activity underway as I said earlier we spotted the Vali well in Angola this month.
We plan to start drilling the Vernaccia and Melmar wells in the Gulf of Mexico and the second and fourth quarters respectively.
And we expect to spud the Cheshire well and Nova Scotia in the fourth quarter.
In Senegal we plan to start appraisal work before the end of the year and we’ll continue to appraise our existing discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico.
So that’s a quick review of the segments.
We gave you a lot of information at the recent Analyst and Investor Meeting so there is not a lot and new to add.
We are playing close attention to the things we can control by safely executing our operating plan capturing capital and operating cost improvements and creating value for shareholders.
So this ends our prepared remarks.
Now I’ll turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We’ll now begin the question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions].
And we have Douglas Terreson from Evercore ISI on line with the question.
Please go ahead.
A key element of the path to cash flow neutrality that you guys talked about at the Analyst Meeting for the next few years is the shift in spending away from the capital intensive projects in the oil sands and also in LNG and towards unconventionals.
And on this point I wanted to see if we could get an update on when you expect Surmont and APLNG to commence operations and therefore for spending to be significantly curtailed? And second is a $2 billion reduction in spending which is about 20% of the budget kind of a reasonable order of magnitude type reduction for these two projects or is that too high? So if we just get the color on what to expect on capital spending declines.
So Doug on Surmont II we expect to have first steam sometimes relatively soon certainly by the middle of the year.
APLNG we expect to start up there in the third quarter.
So it’s pretty much in line with still with what we discussed at Analyst Day and what we’ve been expecting for some time.
And as we move from 2015 into 2016 we’ll see a about $2 billion reduction in capital associated with those projects but that won’t be seen from stack up immediately because we still got capital being spent in both of those projects and through the end of the year.
Between ’15 and ’16 it’s about $2 billion reduction.
And the next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Matt one of the things that has changed since the Analyst Day is unfortunately you had a couple of dry holes from a sizeable write-off and I guess I’m mindful that you had a lot of obligations on drilling this year in exploration.
When you consider a 1.5 billion in exploration relative to let’s say M&amp;A and opportunity so there’d be both from working interest on their onshore or something like that.
How does your exploration appetite look post 2015 once those obligations are rolled off? And I’ve got a follow up.
Clearly we’re disappointed in the results we’ve had from Angola so far we and the whole industry in fact expected that that pre-salt clay in the Kwanza Basin showed a similar characteristic as the pre-salt clay in Brazil but it’s not planning out that way so far.
On the other hand we’re really pleased with the results that we had in Senegal which on the face of it was a more risky play and there as we saved prudent 2 different clay types in the basin we’re looking forward to getting back there.
Of course as you know that’s the nature of exploration.
In terms of sort of long term role for exploration I mean we see explorations role to supplement the resource portfolio with additional opportunities to sustain long term growth and with exploring in plays where we think we can do that at a competitive cost of supply.
And over the last five years or so exploration has delivered a lot of success remember the Eagle Ford was an exploration success for us.
And during that time we’ve been building the deep-water portfolio and focused initially in the Gulf of Mexico and we already have significant discoveries there too 3 discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico additional to Senegal.
So we’re continuing to test the portfolio but clearly exploration has to compete for capital in what is a very competitive investment portfolio.
And as we outlined when we describe the resource base and the cost of supply of our resource base a few weeks ago but we see that as good discipline there to make sure that we’re only committing to exploration opportunities that we think we can compete against our resource base.
I guess like kind of a related question I was going to have another follow up but I don’t want to take up too much time so maybe I’ll stick with this one.
But I’m thinking really more about the scale of the discretionary capital because 1.5 billion is still a descent chunk of your spending this year so where would you expect that to move towards let’s say in a lowered oil price environment should this continue? I’ll leave it there.
Thanks.
Thanks Doug.
Well in the operating plan that we laid out a few weeks ago we’re anticipating a level of about 1.5 billion this year next year and in 2017.
We can revisit that to some extent but that sort of expectation as of sort of planned average over the next few years.
And the next question comes from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everybody.
A couple of quickies.
You mentioned on Libya that you are shut in is that full-shore shut in or can someone else be producing those volumes and the follow up which is also a fairly quick and clean could you talk a little bit more about the Kenia sales I'm not sure who is buying that Ohio is selling it and then I have a longer term follow up.
So Libya yes that productions shut in and we are confident of that shut in in the Waha concession so nobody else is producing it.
The Kenia and we started operations up this month will sell their cargos starting next month we have growing our sales five or six cargos and they are going to Japan.
Is that kind of spot sales.
Matt? Yes.
Got it.
Matt one of the things that people have been talking about since your analyst meeting is your comments on the pilot that you ran and pilots that you're continuing to run in the Eagle Ford.
Could you just expand and talk about what could be the next catalyst in terms of news flow on those pilots? Thanks.
Yes thanks Paul.
So we are running several different pilots in the Eagle Ford in particular in the upper Eagle Ford we are running I think 7 different pilots and across the over -- across different parts of Eagle Ford to test the triple stack concept that we talked about and just to understand what parts of our geographic extent of the Eagle Ford is going to be meaningful to the triple stock development.
So those pilots are going to be drilled as we go through this year and we’ll start to see results as we head into next year so they I don't expected it to drill any definitive conclusions on just how much of the aerial extend will be developed that way until maybe the later part or next year frankly because a lot this is understanding till the wells began to interfere with each other and you don't see that early in the wells life.
And off course we're still running this stimulated growth volume pilot that we talked about and we're going to get lot of new information from this year that from a longer term basis in terms of optimizing the Eagle Ford as a whole and other unconventional plays that we have in the portfolio.
Yes Matt just remind us what the uplift is in terms of performance that you I think we're anticipating if I'm not wrong.
I can't remember if you've seen initial results or whether you anticipate.
Yes.
The initial results from single well pilots in the upper Eagle Ford basically showed the production was the same as to Lower Eagle Ford and of what we haven’t test yet is windows are drilled in the context of a pattern of wells do we see interference.
And that's what we’re testing with these days seven pilots that were running now.
So there was actually a number I think associated with what you might get in terms of improved performance? No I don’t think we went into that yet Paul because we really need to understand the nature of this pilots how they perform when they’re confined with other wells we didn’t actually make any view prediction about what we expect to find.
We’d rather do that after we're seen the pilot test results.
Okay and as you said this something that's going to take a bit of time to really -- maybe by next analyst meeting I guess? Yes it's possible but then it may take you to longer than that we don't want jump the gun and I wouldn’t we’re definitely encouraged as we said a few weeks ago but we want to make sure that we’re calibrating properly before we make any claims with that what there incremental reserves will be for example.
And the next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi Guys.
Two quick question.
Matt can you share what EPLNG the cash operating cost and the tax regime? We’re not in the operating phase yet for EPLNG so the -- I don’t have the operating cost number of the top of my head.
The tax regime is a tax and royalty and regime with royalties at the Queensland level and taxes at the federal level.
So it’s typical like 10% on the royalty and 30% PPT or TIP? Yes.
This is actually not fully resolved yet there is some discussion still under way with the Princeton government on the nature of how their oil could be calculated so I can’t really give you a definitive answer on that yet.
Paul.
I'll add a little bit to what Matt said on the tax side the taxes are actually paid down at the ATLNT at kind of corporate level and there is going to be as you can imagine with a big capital investment project like that from a cash flow perspective a fair business tax Shale from depreciation on the investment particularly in the early years of the project.
So Jeff does that mean that during the first five years that we should assume there's not really had the tax that APLNG need to pay? I don’t know but I can give you that precisely in the number that depends on price levels as well.
But if we had current kind of prices that's probably not a bad assumption.
Okay.
And then Matt can you -- maybe I missed it; can you tell me what is the Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian production in the first quarter? And if you have any number you can share in terms of the exit rate for this year? Yes the Eagle Ford was around the 175 000 about first quarter and the Bakken was around 55 000 barrels a day in the first quarter.
Permian was less than 10 on the unconventional side we also have significant conventional production but in the Shale’s side it was less than 10.
So what we expect to happen forward is we the aggregate production from the unconventionals is going to grow a little bit into the second quarter and then it’s going to gradually decline as we exit the year so the fourth quarter exit rate is going to be quite similar to the first quarter rate in aggregate for the Shale plays.
And you start increasing the rig count next year again? I think that’s the current trend so we should assume that they will resume the growth or that the increase in rig count for next year will be only sufficient that to hold it flat? It depends a bit on the pace of the build of the rigs back up you should really assume that it’s going to hold it flat because by the time we get the wells back and running again through the drilling and completion and hook up and bringing them on production.
We’re actually going to see the decline in production from those plays continue into the early part of 2016 and then start to increase towards the end of 2016 and based on our current assessment of how we’ll put rigs back to work they’re probably relatively flat from the average of 15 to the average of 6.
And our next question comes from Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
So a couple of questions on the -- there have been several recent news stories around some of your M&amp;A efforts of potential assets that you might consider selling any additional commentary that you might have regarding potential M&amp;A programs are these bringing the people approaching you or are these assets that you are marketing are we still looking at kind of smaller 500 to $1 billion sized deals.
Any thoughts around that? We’re always in with a portfolio of our size looking at what going to we do in the way of portfolio optimization.
As we go forward we’re not going to be pre-announcing that we’re marketing particular assets.
You will hear stories probably on the marketplace that we’re testing values on that and that’s what we’ll always be doing as part of a prudent optimization of the portfolio.
As we’ve said I think it’s prudent to think in terms of a company our size will do something with its asset portfolio every year and we talked about it whether that’s a $1 billion so a year there is probably a good go by.
It really just depends on whether we’re getting full value for the assets.
It’s always about whether we can sell the assets or at least what we think we could receive from in-value if we kept them in our portfolio.
And we don’t know what that number is going to be but there will be some level of asset sale.
And maybe shifting gears a little bit in Alaska at the Analyst Meeting you guys had given guidance on Alaska production and you have a couple of projects turning up later this year.
I guess can you talk a little about your production expectation in Alaska and maybe that of the industry with these differentials had kind of bounce around quite a bit.
Maybe if you look out one or two years what’s the direction that you would expect in terms of crude realizations and activity levels in general in Alaska? We expect with the major projects that we’re doing and the development drilling that we’re doing in Alaska that we’re likely to hold production relatively flat for the next three years and beyond that actually.
And we had a reasonably good representation of the overall Alaska production because we get the big production areas we look to drill Kuparuk and Alpine so I think if you at us our macro view of Alaska about wouldn’t be about basis to think about that.
In terms of realizations I think currently realizations are -- for the E&amp;S crude are both $2 or $3 below Brent and we have taken one cargo this year to Asia and one last year and we always have that option if that’s what we chose to do.
And the next question is from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
I know Conoco remains focused on your yield bridging the cash flow neutrality; how would you respond to the commodity recovery meaning when you seek to increase cash cushion balance sheet repair just some level which might dictate or delay any potential reacceleration? I think our first reaction to an increase in prices is going to be to reduce the amount of cash we use and the amount of debt we might borrow particularly as we think about the activity levels in 2015 and 2016.
Any idea in terms of kind of levels or price signal that you need to see to reaccelerate? I think in the near term I am not sure we see a price level that would cause us to reaccelerate and we are going to want to see what that if there is some acceleration in prices and it's got a more lasting effect as well.
I mean we are taking anything about what's going on with our capital program as Matt mentioned earlier we have a couple of billion dollars rolling off on from certain amount of APLNG and we are -- our plans already accelerating capital spending in places like North American and un-conventional as we go into 2016.
Right right no I understood that.
Maybe to the other side could you quantify or provide a range of how much more you could borrow and still maintain you’re A rating? It’s a bit of a -- I don’t think I can actually quantify that because the rating agencies won't tell you exactly what number that is.
As I think we would characterize the same way we characterized it on our call last time we think the amount that we do borrow is going to be -- it could be enough that would cause us to see a one notch downgrade from what's currently A1 at Moody's and A the middle single A with the Standard &amp; Poor’s and with Fitch.
And what their have you seen all the agencies do have our credit rating outlook on a negative so that that's they are going to be anticipating that.
But once if that were to happen that were moves into a range what we are comfortable that there is plenty of space there to meet whatever borrowing needs we might have in 2015 and 2016 as we head towards cash flow neutrality in 2017.
And our next question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to dive a little bit into shale again.
I've seen some very strong performance from you guys this year even stronger in the Bakken.
Is there anything you are doing differently this year? And we were continuing to work through our optimizations Ed that we discuss a little bit few weeks ago optimizing the completion design and the well length and the well placement and so on.
I wouldn’t say there is anything fundamentally different going on there but we are and we are moving towards more pad drilling 90% of the wells have become pad drilling but there is not a fundamental change there the guys are just executing well.
And then on the shale program and obviously a massive cut in rigs and obviously you do modeling on volumes probably to a far greater degree than we do from the outside.
But are there any risk that you undershoot on volumes or you feel pretty comfortable about the trajectory you just outlined? I feel pretty comfortable although for obvious -- the answer I gave earlier on what we expect of our Eagle Ford and Permian and Bakken production to do this year and into next year.
Assuming that we do increase our rigs in the way that we intend to next year.
And then coming back to Doug's question on -- you know obviously people are going to focus a lot on cash flow margins and you got these big projects coming up.
When do you reckon that APLNG Surmont will sort of hit what you think is sort of a peak operational cash flow? Obviously whatever the macro gives at that point is a separate discussion.
Yes.
So peak on both them really for a different reasons peak operational cash flows in 2017 and for someone to do this because it takes a while as you know to build the steam chambers and ramp up production in the site B project and in the case of APLNG we’ll bring the first train on this year it will be next year before we bring the second train on so the first year that will have both trains running will be in 2017.
So in both cases it will be 2017 before they fully contribute at their plateau rate and off course that rate will continue in both projects for a decades.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Two quick ones.
You cut your Lower 48 rigs by over half.
How many frac spreads are you running Matt? Let’s see I would say overall we’re probably running three or four it varies a little bit but I think three full time and fore if we -- occasionally so that's our total spread to support to those rigs.
Okay great.
And at Global you had a passing comment about you being disappointed with the geology.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on that? That is it for me.
Okay.
So we've had two dry holes there in the campaign the first at Kamoxi was basically the reservoir wasn't developed as you know better than most these cabinet reservoirs are quite difficult to predict across the development and in the case of porosity just wasn't developed there.
For Omosi porosity was developed we did see good reservoir faces but it was gas filled.
So the fetch area was feeding into Omosi was overcooked.
So two different reasons for the failures on those wells and that basin as a whole is a bit less predictable and then we are talking going in.
There is a valley well that we’re drilling is actually testing a different play than the Omosi and Kamoxi wells were so will see how that goes.
And our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Hi folks.
Good morning.
Jeff back on the balance sheet discussion previously I am just curious can you remind me if Libya? No we've not impaired Libya.
For us we would have to see if there is some kind of view that there was a permanent loss of that concession before we really need to do an impairment.
Okay.
Offhand do you remember what kind of capital employed or anything on that asset? You know I don’t know that number off the top of my head it’s on the order of a $0.5 billion but I wouldn’t -- I am not sure exactly what that number is.
No worries that's fine.
The second question there has been a lot of discussion with the recent rise in commodity prices here with some of the E&amp;Ps potentially layering in hedges.
I know historically that has not been something that Conoco has enacted.
But I didn't know if there was any new internal debate as to the potential benefits of doing that specifically for your Lower 48 activity? No we take the portfolio approach to thinking about our cash flows.
So we wouldn’t really think about doing it for one particular part of our portfolio.
Generally our philosophy that we’ve talked about before hasn’t changed we feel like hedging is by definition kind of zero sum game in terms of value and it’s one of the reasons we keep a strong balance sheet is to be able to handle the fluctuations in commodity price.
And our next question comes from Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
So there has been a lot of talk sticking with the Lower 48 at what price signal does U.S.
shale production start reaccelerating? And as a major U.S.
player not speaking specific to your portfolio just wanted to get your perspective at what level that might occur whether it's $60 WTI or $65 WTI or the range of outcomes.
And how quickly can the industry bring back that production and what potential bottlenecks to bring that supply back online are? I can’t speak for the industry as to what price signal they might be looking for it would certainly be a cash flow of a big impact on that as well.
But in our plans we are planning the increases within 2016 modestly but we’re going to increase as we move into 2016 and that’s in the anticipation of some continued recovery in prices.
And in terms of the capacity clearly we’ve laid down quite a bit of rig and the completion and capacity.
And that can be brought back relatively quickly.
There is a flexible industry that we have in the Lower 48 so exactly how quickly people bring these back on will be a function of the cash that we wanted to back in and the what they see us be an efficient and see if we are could bring the rigs and the completion crews back to work.
So I don’t think I answered your question very satisfactorily but that’s the best I’ve got.
You got me there philosophically.
And then Matt I should've asked you this question at the Analyst Day.
But the $1 billion of the cost reduction program that operating cost reduction target how sensitive is that to the commodity price? Or do you think that is commodity agnostic? Our intention is to make that commodity agnostic for the most part we’re looking to get them a sustainable cost reductions through this effort.
Now we’re going to get some fluctuations associated with exchange rates and with the changes in the deflationary environment but our focus is on getting structural cost reductions that we can sustain through the cycles.
And your next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
I guess I would like to ask about the price realization.
It seemed a little bit -- well at least relative to our expectations -- a little weak in the first quarter both on oil and gas.
And I was wondering how much of that may just be a function of timing how much of that is maybe some of the differentials we have seen or a mix of production kind of oil condensate NGLs et cetera working its way through.
And the final part of the question as prices have been recovering does that help on realizations as we think about Q2 and Q3 potentially? So what we saw in the first quarter was that realizations were probably weaker than what people were expecting primarily in the Lower 48.
For example I think our Lower 48 crude oil realization was closer to $40 where WTI was like 48.5 or so for the quarter.
What we’re seeing is just a tough quarter for realizations a lost supply in the marketplace.
The differentials that we’re seeing are not that different -- that we saw in the first quarter and not that different when we were in a $50 price environment and they were when we were at much higher price environment but still kind of that same level differentials.
I think we would expect to see kind of differentials improve in terms of kind of percent of marker realized and maybe some slight improvement in any kind of absolute levels of differentials as well.
The differentials were tough because they were kind of tough across all commodities for us in the Lower 48 as well just it’s tough on NGLs oil and natural gas.
Yes I was just wondering was there any -- I don't remember all the exact moving parts right here but I am just saying was that a function of any more either a lighter crew that you are selling or a condensate barrel or just it just is what it is? I am just trying to understand.
It's just little bit -- that’s just what the market was in the first quarter is something really that fundamentally changed in our product mix or the quality of any of the products that were selling that would lead to that kind of differential.
Okay thanks.
And then on related follow-up.
The changes in taxes in the UK give us an idea of maybe how you characterize that.
Is it that really helped? It's a nice first step but we need to see more? Does it change anything in terms of how you think about investing over the next say two years which seems pretty well locked down in terms of expectations on the CapEx side but it could help on a post 2017 environment? Yes.
Roger it helps the U.K.
sector needs as much help as it can get so the help on the tax rate it was welcomed.
The simplification and broadening of the and uplift on capital is going to help us realize about 12% uplift now in capital when you go through the math and so this -- we’ll build only if we’re thinking as a thinking about overall investment portfolio over the next few years but it’s certainly was a move in the right direction by the UK government.
And our next comes from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your guidance for exploration in dry hole $800 million for the year you said it is unchanged.
But it looked like Q1 was well above your annual run rate.
So does that imply that there is going to be a significant reduction in that expense line item as the year progresses? Yes it does and by its nature dry hole cost is going to be pretty lumpy and we happen to have both the Harrier well and the Omosi well in Enochdhu hit in the first quarter.
You could have quarters where the numbers really low no well actually gets to TD during that quarter and it could be lumpy again later in the year.
But as we look at the overall kind of balance of the year we think the guidance that we gave at the Analyst Presentation still make sense.
Okay.
And then you've talked about some of the areas where you are seeing cost savings that look pretty encouraging.
Are there any operating areas where on the other hand costs have been surprisingly sticky where you are not seeing the savings that perhaps you would have anticipated by this point? Are you talking about operating cost Pavel or capital cost? I guess more on the CapEx side.
What we're seeing in this in more rapid response in the Lower 48 and other parts of the company and we expect to see some deflation kicking in and we’re already asking some in our international business but there is a this coming more slowly I mean it's what we've anticipate is coming more slowly from the international business but it's come very rapidly in the Lower 48 and but we've build in build that sort of the trend as we anticipated into our expectations of the deflation and we do expect to see those reductions coming in the international over the next several months.
And we have a question from Asit Sen from Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Matt just wanted to get your views on the recent industry debate on refracking in the unconventional.
And if I could ask two questions on that.
First from Conoco's vantage point what is new in the technology offering that you are seeing? And second within your portfolio where do you see the most relevance? And if you could frame that on a risk reward context please? Yes.
So we have been running some refracs in our portfolio and some using the diverter sort of technology some just basically straight that pumping the new fracs with existing pairs and somewhat new paths so we’ll be testing a few and the area that we’re seeing the best uplift is as you would expect are our older wells where we pumped smaller jobs with wider spacing so they -- we see some potential there and it’s particularly in wells that were drilled a few years ago and more recently drilled well so we are continuing to evaluate that but there is some -- certainly some upside potential.
I was just turning the call around to managements for final comments.
That's terrific.
Really we appreciate everybody's questions and comments obviously feel free to come back to us if you didn't get your questions answered.
But we're going to give you back a little bit of time here again.
Thank you for participating and we look forward to staying in touch with all of you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis VP-Investor Relations and Communications ConocoPhillips.
Thank you Christine and hello to all of our participants today.
With me on the call are Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO; Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer; and Matt Fox our EVP of E&amp;P.
Ryan's going to open the call this morning with some comments about the general business environment and then will turn the call over to Jeff and Matt for their customary second quarter comments.
Q&amp;A will follow that and we are going to ask that people limit their questions to one plus one follow-up.
We will make some forward-looking statements this morning.
And obviously our future performance could differ from our projections due to risks and uncertainties.
Those are described on page 2 of this morning's material and in our periodic filings with the SEC.
This information as well as our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations and other supplemental information can be found on our website.
And now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Ryan.
Thank you Ellen and thank you all for joining the call today.
As Ellen said before we dive into the second-quarter results I want to take the opportunity to provide some broad comments about our approach to the business in the current price environment.
So let me give you the punch line of these comments the dividend is safe.
Let me repeat that the dividend is safe.
The business is running well we have increasing flexibility and can achieve cash flow neutrality in 2017 and beyond at today's strip price of roughly $60 per barrel Brent.
And we have a unique formula for sustainable performance and a portfolio that can deliver.
Now let me put a little bit of meat on the bones.
Weak prices have certainly dealt us and the industry a significant headwind but the reality is we don't control prices.
That said there are many things we do control like how much capital we return to the shareholders how much and where we spend the capital and the cost of running the business.
And rest assured ConocoPhillips is laser focused on the things we can control.
We cut our capital early in the cycle not just for this year but for three years.
We took a $1 billion cost-cutting challenge and we recently reduced spending for new deepwater opportunities.
And we did this while continuing to meet our operational targets raising our dividend modestly to continue to meet our commitment to shareholders.
Our ability to make these decisions is not accidental.
Over the past few years we've built a sizable portfolio and resource base flexibility options and choices.
It's a huge advantage at times like these.
Just as importantly we're navigating the sharp downturn with a focus not just on the short-term measures but also a focus on the medium and the long-term horizons.
This is really important and frankly it's hard to do.
So if you turn to slide four let me provide some perspective on how we're simultaneously managing across these time horizons.
First the short term is all about safely executing the business.
That means delivering on our current performance targets.
As Jeff and Matt will cover we're meeting or exceeding our short-term goals and as you saw in this morning's announcement we're lowering guidance on operating cost and reducing our capital guidance for 2015.
That represents a significant benefit to net cash flow for the year.
We also recently increased our quarterly dividend.
The increase was very modest representing about $25 million impact in 2015.
While every dollar matters we believe this was an important message for our shareholders.
At the same time we're also paying close attention to the medium-term.
And the medium-term for us is all about managing the path to cash flow neutrality in 2017.
In addition to the short-term items I just mentioned we continue to focus on ways to increase our capital flexibility.
If the current price environment persists we have the flexibility to reduce our near-term capital spend below $11.5 billion and still achieve modest growth.
Now stay tuned for more on this as we see where the commodity prices head later in the year.
Also we're focused on maintaining our balance sheet strength.
We have additional capacity and ample access to liquidity.
And as we've continuously said we expect a company of our size would generate about $1 billion of asset sales annually from pruning the portfolio.
That's an additional source of cash and good business.
Finally we announced a $1 billion operating cost reduction challenge for 2016 and we're on track to meet or exceed that target.
These actions will help our medium-term performance but also drive sustainable improvements beyond 2017.
And that brings me to the long-term the actions we are taking to ensure our long-term success include maintaining our capital flexibility lowering the cost of supply across the portfolio and shortening the cycle time of our investments.
These are criteria that are guiding our decisions and these were the drivers behind the recent decision to reduce our deepwater spending which Matt will discuss in more detail.
So that's how we're managing the business through this period by simultaneously focusing on the short medium and long-term horizons.
And we're doing it in a way that I believe meets our commitments to our shareholders and honors our priorities of a growing dividend a strong balance sheet and growth that we can afford.
Now ultimately our goal is to position the company for sustainable performance and this point is demonstrated on the next slide.
Now we know what's on everybody's mind.
What if prices stay lower for longer? Well the left side of this chart lays out our answer.
We believe we can achieve cash flow neutrality in 2017 and beyond through exercising capital flexibility even at $60 a barrel Brent.
We can exercise additional capital flexibility from various sources deflation capture efficiency improvements discretion in development programs uncommitted major projects deepwater reductions and the additional program efficiencies.
And we believe we can achieve our 2017 production target given the ramp from our major projects between now and then.
The majority of which is from capital we've already invested.
And this is all before tactical asset sales.
Finally the right side of the chart shows a graphic from our April Analyst Meeting.
At that meeting we discussed the quality and cost of supply of captured resource base.
Today we have over 44 billion barrels of identified resource over half of which has a very attractive cost of supply.
16 billion barrels is either proven reserves or has a cost of supply that's less than $60 per barrel.
That's almost 30 years of resource at current production rates.
So we have the opportunities to invest capital in captured economic programs with little resource risk.
This should accelerate value for shareholders while increasing the predictability of our business.
That's how we can sustain our success for the long-term.
Now I hope these comments provided some perspective on our approach to the business in this environment.
The bottom line it's a very solid and disciplined plan.
So I'm going to come back with some closing comments but let me turn it now over to Jeff.
Thanks Ryan.
So I'll walk through our results for the quarter and then provide some updates on our 2015 guidance.
I'll start with our second quarter financial performance so that's on slide seven.
As Ryan mentioned we operated well this quarter with production hitting the high end of guidance.
We reported adjusted earnings of $81 million or $0.07 a share and these results included 4% volume growth and 14% lower operating costs compared to this quarter last year after adjusting for special items.
The story for the company and the sector this year continues to be low commodity prices.
We did see a slight increase in total realized prices in the second quarter compared the first quarter which improved our sequential earnings but year-over-year our realized price was down nearly 45%.
Second quarter adjusted earnings by segment are shown on the lower right side of this chart.
Segment adjusted earnings are roughly in line with our sensitivities and the financial details for each segment can be found in the supplemental data on our website.
Now if you'll turn to slide eight I'll review our production results.
Our second quarter production averaged nearly 1.6 million BOE per day compared to 1.56 million BOE per day in the second quarter 2014.
That's growth of 4% or 69 000 BOE per day which came primarily from liquids and from domestic gas sales of APLNG which we'll turn to LNG over time.
The waterfall also shows the difference between downtime and dispositions in the second quarter this year versus same period last year which was 30 000 barrels per day.
That reflects mostly downtime in Canada from forest fires near Foster Creek and in Malaysia as a result of the Gumusut turnaround.
Now if you'll turn to the next slide I'll cover our cash flow waterfall for the first half of the year.
This chart provides a summary of our sources and uses of cash through the first half of the year.
We started the year with $5.1 billion in cash through the end of June we generated $4.4 billion from operating activities excluding working capital.
Total working capital in the first half of the year was a $1.1 billion use of cash with the largest impact related to lower payables associated with reductions in our capital spending.
We do not expect to see significant additional working capital changes associated with investing activities through the remainder of 2015.
In the first half of the year we received $600 million in disposition proceeds.
As we've previously said with a portfolio of our size you can see $1 billion of assets sales every year as we continually high-grade the portfolio.
We increased debt by $2.4 billion.
The debt included fixed and floating rate bond tranches with an average maturity of 5.6 years and an average interest rate of 1.9%.
For the first half of the year we spent $5.7 billion in capital and that was comprised of $3.3 billion in the first quarter reducing down to $2.4 billion in the second quarter.
And as we'll point out on the next slide we're lowering our capital guidance for 2015 from $11.5 billion to $11 billion.
So that puts us at $5.3 billion in capital for the second half of the year.
After paying our dividend we ended the quarter with $3.8 billion in cash on the balance sheet.
So we remain in a strong balance sheet position with cash on hand access to ample liquidity as well as the potential for incremental cash from tactical asset sales.
I'll wrap up my comments on slide 10 with some guidance for the rest of the year.
We are on track to achieve the high end of our 2% to 3% production growth for the year.
Our third quarter production guidance is 1.51 million BOE per day to 1.55 million BOE per day which reflects significant turnaround activity in the quarter.
We are also providing an update on several of our financial guidance items which in the aggregate will provide approximately $900 million in benefit to net cash flow in 2015.
We now expect full year 2015 capital expenditures of around $11 billion compared to our previous guidance of $11.5 billion.
This reflects lower capital that's roughly equal parts program efficiencies deflation in FX and some activity deferral.
We're also making good progress on our operating cost targets which are mostly coming from changes to the way we run our business.
We still expect our operating costs to increase in the second half of the year as we continue our turnaround work and bring projects online but given our run rate through the first half of the year we are lowering our operating cost guidance for the year from $9.2 billion to $8.9 billion.
That puts us ahead of schedule as we work towards our $1 billion cost reduction target in 2016.
Our corporate segment benefited from LNG licensing revenues during the second quarter and we're changing our full-year guidance to a net expense of $900 million from $1 billion.
And there is no change to our DD&amp;A or exploration dry hole and impairment guidance.
That concludes the review of the financial performance and guidance.
I'm going to turn it over to Matt for an update on our operations.
Thanks Jeff.
As Jeff and Ryan mentioned we've had another strong quarter operationally and the business is performing well.
I'll quickly run through our segment results and then turn it back to Ryan for some closing thoughts.
In the lower 48 second quarter production averaged 556 000 BOE per day.
That's a 3% increase from the same period last year and represents a 9% increase in crude oil production over the same period.
We're now running 13 rigs with six in the Eagle Ford four in the Bakken and three in the Permian.
That's down from 32 rigs at the end of 2014 and we believe this is the right pace of activity in this environment.
We'll reassess these levels later in the year taking into consideration market conditions pilot test information and the price outlook.
With our reduced capital program our growth in this region has started to slow and we expect production to see modest declines through the rest of the year consistent with our prior guidance.
Looking at the Gulf of Mexico our appraisal work is continuing with activity in the quarter at Gila Shenandoah and Tiber.
And next I want to provide a quick update on the rest of our Gulf of Mexico program following our deepwater announcement earlier this month.
As Ryan mentioned we recently announced a plan to reduce spending in deepwater notably in the Gulf of Mexico.
We've taken the step of terminating our agreement for a drillship and we expect to take a charge of up to $400 million as a special item in the third quarter.
The drillship wasn't scheduled for delivery to the Gulf until later this year so not a lot has changed for our 2015 drilling program.
Two exploration wells are expected to spud in the third quarter at Melmar and Vernaccia.
After Melmar we will have two remaining slots on the Maersk Valiant drillship.
We expect to drill a Socorro prospect with one of these slots and we're currently evaluating and high-grading our drilling prospects to fill the final operated slot.
We're going through our budgeting process for next year and we'll provide more detail on expected capital and operating cost savings for 2016 when we announce our capital budget later in the year.
Next I'll cover our Canada and Alaska segments on slide 13.
We produced 306 000 BOE per day in our Canada segment an 8% year-over-year increase.
The growth came from our new wells in Western Canada as well as strong performance from our oil sands assets.
In May we achieved a major milestone with first steam at Surmont 2.
We're on track to start producing in the third quarter and expect production to ramp up through 2017.
Our other oil sands assets continue to perform well and we're see ongoing ramp-up at Foster Creek Phase F despite the 11-day shutdown the end of May due to forest fires.
Alaska's average production was 174 000 BOE per day.
We're continuing to make project (sic) [progress] (16:18) on our CD5 and Drill Site 2S projects where the first wells were spudded at both projects during the quarter and both are on track for first oil during the fourth quarter.
As we mentioned in the first quarter call we resumed exports from Kenai LNG in April.
So far we've delivered two cargoes and we expect to deliver four more by the end of the year.
And our seasonal turnaround activity started at both Prudhoe and Kuparuk in June and will continue into the third quarter.
Now let's review our Europe and Asia-Pacific and Middle East segments on slide 14.
In Europe second-quarter production averaged 206 000 BOE per day.
We achieved startup of our Enochdhu project slightly ahead of schedule.
We're also making progress on our Alder project which is expected to come online in late 2016.
Eldfisk II and Eldfisk South production is continuing to ramp up as we bring additional wells online.
And we've safely completed our turnaround activity in the J-Area and the Ekofisk Area ahead of schedule.
However we still have a significant amount of turnaround activity planned in the region during the third quarter.
In the APME segment we produced 349 000 BOE per day in the second quarter.
That's an 8% increase compared the second quarter of last year primarily as a result of new production from major project startups in Malaysia.
APLNG Train 1 is nearing completion.
We achieved another milestone this week when we started loading refrigerants to the LNG facility and we remain on track for first cargo in the fourth quarter.
In China we completed our Bohai appraisal program with encouraging results.
And in Malaysia Gumusut began a major turnaround in June which was just completed in the past few days.
So to wrap up my comments the business is continuing to perform well we're hitting our production targets lowering our cost and maintaining our focus on safety.
We have a few more major projects and turnarounds to complete this year but we're on track to deliver on our commitments.
Now I'll turn the call back to Ryan for his closing remarks.
Thanks Matt.
And that wraps up our second-quarter review.
So here's the summary: The dividend is safe the business is running extremely well we can achieve cash flow neutrality in 2017 and beyond at today's strip of roughly $60 per barrel Brent and we have a unique formula for sustainable performance and a portfolio that can deliver.
Now currently the environment today is challenging for the industry.
But we believe we're entering a new reality for the business.
The winners will be those companies with a rational vision high quality asset base and a strong workforce and a commitment to shareholders.
The winners will be those companies who can manage short medium and long-term goals simultaneously and we're setting plans and delivering on the things that we can control in the short term paying close attention to the drivers of medium and long-term performance.
We believe this broad perspective will serve us well and make us an even stronger company in the future.
So thank you for listening to the opening remarks and I'd be happy to turn it back over to the operator for your questions and our answers.
Thank you.
And our first question is from Guy Baber of Simmons and Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
I had a couple.
First was just hoping to discuss the decision making progress around determining whether to increase or decrease unconventional activity levels later this year and into 2016? You mentioned the development program discretion so just wanted to dive a bit deeper into that.
I think the prior view was to begin increasing the rig count the back half of this year but oil prices have obviously weakened and you obviously have a lot of flexibility next year with $2 billion in major projects rolling off.
So could you just help us understand the framework for determining unconventional activity spending levels as we go into next year? Yeah Guy thanks.
As we laid out in April we saw some modest increases in the prices over the next couple of years in our path to sort of our working the medium-term in 2017.
And if we see the – and in that plan we had some ramping up of our unconventional activity assumed in that plan.
As our capital flexibility increased and our project capital was rolling off Surmont and APLNG we're going to direct that to the unconventionals which are shorter cycle time higher returns and just better opportunities for the company.
I would say if prices that we're seeing today sub $60 Brent high $40s and low $50s we don't have plans to increase the capital and ramp up in the unconventionals if these kind of prices persist.
So we're watching the space pretty closely.
As Matt said we'll announce our capital later this year but that's going to be informed by where we think the commodity prices are and where we think they will be in 2016.
And that's going to then dictate how much we ramp up in the unconventionals.
Thanks Ryan.
And then my follow up was could you just discuss a little bit more some of the assumptions implicit in the comment that you could achieve cash flow neutrality by 2017 at $60 a barrel Brent.
So more specifically could you perhaps elaborate on what deflation capture would be implicit in those assumptions? And just any more detail that you could give there I think would be helpful as I think that's a pretty important assertion.
Yeah I think what we're saying right now is that when we came out in April we talked about the capital required to generate a flat production profile for a long period of time for the company.
We thought that was about $9 billion.
I think the deflation that we've seen to date and the additional deflation that would happen in a lower price world that you're describing our flat capital goes down something closer to $8 billion and if this price were to persist for a period of time we would expect additional deflation and more efficiencies going forward.
We haven't factored that into the analysis necessarily but it is a recognition that we can achieve flat production for a long period of time at an $8 billion capital level.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Doug.
Doug.
Ryan I wanted to continue on Guy's question about the downward revisions to operating capital cost and specifically you highlighted on slide five four different categories and you just touched on deflation capture but I also wanted to see if you could comment on – or give us a little bit more insight on what you mean by discretion in development programs deepwater reductions program efficiencies just a few more specifics there if you have any? Yeah Doug.
Be happy to.
So we described sort of the deflation capture and efficiency that we're seeing in the portfolio to lower the capital required to keep flat production over time and that's clearly something that we would dial in if we saw these kinds of prices persist.
We talk about – something we don't talk about is asset sales.
We think in the portfolio our size we have an ongoing rationalization program that keeps eliminating the bottom end of the portfolio and that's certainly there.
We've got a lot of flexibility.
The unconventionals are shorter cycle time and we can ramp those up at different speeds responding to the commodity price environment that we find ourselves in.
So as we try to describe the actions the levers and the tools those are some of them.
You mentioned the deepwater exploration.
We're working through that as well but would expect that to be incremental in terms of capital savings and operating cost savings as we look forward at this kind of price level.
Okay.
And then finally on cash flow when using consensus estimates divestitures and borrowings in the quarter it seems like your dividend is covered for 2015 and on this point I wanted to see where your after-tax borrowing costs were on the recent borrowings in the period.
And then also the status of any other funding sources such as a revolver commercial paper or whatever you deem relevant so maybe a question for Jeff? Yeah sure.
Doug.
As we mentioned in our brief remarks there we were out in the debt markets in the second quarter and we issued $2.5 billion worth of debt.
That was a mix of fixed and floating and on average that was a 1.8% 1.9% interest rate on a pre-tax basis so you could tax effect that.
So we ended the second quarter at $3.8 billion in cash on the balance sheet.
It probably takes $800 million to $1 billion to operate our business and then in addition to that we have about a $6 billion liquidity line that's undrawn currently.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Doug.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
I guess Ryan first of all thank you for your remarks at the beginning of the call of the dividend.
I think that's pretty clear but I've got a couple of questions around the strategy how that changes in a low oil price environment.
First one's really on exploration.
So you've cut a rig obviously this year you had a fairly large commitment.
What does this say about the exploration strategy going forward given the resource depth that you have and given that that's a key area of discretionary spending? Are you backing away from exploration post 2015? And I've got a follow up please.
Doug I think I'll take that.
And so the specific announcement we made earlier this month is only related to canceling the Ensco drillship.
And that by itself is going to result in a decrease in our deepwater exploration capital by $300 million to $500 million a year for the next three years as a function of what the spread rate and the equity position would be.
We're still going to be conducting deepwater exploration though through 2015 and into 2016.
We have – we're appraising our existing discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa and high grading the portfolio to fulfill the remaining rig commitments that we have.
But more to the strategic question that you were asking we are looking more broadly at our deepwater portfolio and considering alternatives to that portfolio.
But anything we do is going to have to preserve value from the discoveries that we've made in the portfolio that we've built up over the last few years.
So there is still a strategic question on the long-term position of deepwater.
Now we have a very strong position in the unconventionals and as you mentioned a very strong position across the resource base as a whole.
So the strategic emphasis would be moving more towards developing the existing resource base but there still is a significant role for exploration to play in bringing new resources into the portfolio.
So there will be more to come in this to over time Doug as we firm up those longer-term strategic implications of the deepwater decision.
Appreciate the answer Matt.
I guess the follow up is probably for you as well I'm guessing because there has been I think you and I had some time together earlier this year.
There was some talk about 80 000 barrels a day of potential non-core production.
With your comments about one has to imagine that there is disposal potential in some of your existing undeveloped discoveries how should we think about the scale of what you envisage to be your disposal backlog if that's the right way to ask the question? And how would that capital be redeployed? Would it buy back stock? Would it shore up on the balance sheet? How would you use the spending? And then I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So as Jeff and Ryan both mentioned we expect to be some form of dispositions going on sort of continuously in the portfolio just to trim up.
And it is nonstrategic.
So for example you may have seen yesterday or the day before that we are going to market our Cook Inlet position in Alaska.
I think it's quite well known that we've had a package out there in Canada for nonstrategic assets and big gas assets and we have some assets in the lower 48 that fit the same criteria.
So we do have some tactical dispositions that we're currently marketing at the moment.
So I mean the use of that cash would be to fund our dividend and our ongoing capital programs of the...
Yeah and I'd jump in there Doug a little bit.
The priorities are the dividend to the shareholder the balance sheet and then a growth we can afford.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Hi Paul.
Paul.
You talked about 2017 cash flow neutrality and an $8 billion hold for that number.
Are you implying that you are actually going to outspend cash flow between now and then? Or are you essentially going as fast as you can to get to cash flow neutrality? I think it largely Paul depends on our outlook on the commodity prices which we're watching pretty closely right now.
But we would have some slight outspend in 2016 if we continue to ramp up and hold the capital at $11.5 billion but that's something that we're looking at dropping down at the current price and continuing to exercise the flexibility.
What people tend to forget about though starting in 2016 and going into 2017 is we have pretty significant ramp in production from Surmont Phase 2 and from APLNG.
And that's capital and cost that we spent the last four years to five years.
We've got production coming on in 2016 and 2017 that people tend to forget about that is right in front of us.
Surmont 2 just first steam earlier this year we'll have first oil here imminently.
And first cargo is coming out of APLNG.
So the intention is to get to cash flow neutrality as quick as we can.
And we're just trying to demonstrate that we've got a lot of flexibility even at the current lower prices we're seeing today.
Yeah I understand.
And I probably should have prefaced it by saying if we assume the strip which I guess is something around what you're talking about here is sort of a $60 outlook is what we see on the futures market? Yeah and that's why we've tried to put that into our slide at that kind of a price level just to give you some sense of how we would manage the business at that kind of a deck.
And I think you've been asked this and you've tried to answer it.
Forgive me if I just slightly missed what was being said.
But can you just run over again the deflation element here the lower service costs here? I know you've done some excellent work in your presentation showing how costs are changing.
When I was with Mr.
Hirshberg he said that this is actually lagging this is last year's data.
Would you mind just going back over how we get from an $11.5 billion $11 billion run rate this year all the way down as low as $8 billion seemingly simply if oil stays at $60? Yeah Doug (sic) [Paul] (32:40).
So in April we talked about deflation the $700 million that we were trying to capture.
We now see that probably closer to $900 million.
And obviously if the kind the strip prices that you're talking about persist we'd expect that to continue down as well.
So as we look out at that the $8 billion is really to stay flat.
The $9 billion or the $10 billion or $11.5 billion grows our production based on the amounts that we laid out in April.
So we've got a lot of flexibility between the $11.5 billion that we laid out to the marketplace in April versus this what we're calling $8 billion just to stay flat production.
So what we're trying to describe to folks is with the capital flexibility the deflation and the efficiencies that we're creating in the business is just adding to the flexibility on the capital side of the program.
It gives us a lot of choice as we go into the back half of this year in deciding what kind of program we want to execute in 2016 and 2017 on our pathway to get to cash flow neutrality as quickly as we can.
That's great Ryan.
Thanks.
And if I could just add in we've had the idea that you would IPO the exploration business and have it as a standalone business.
I assume you'd want to retain some access to that business as opposed to for example disposing of it all together but at the moment it feels like the potential for you to spin in (34:10) that business is going to be undervaluing it essentially.
Yeah I think that's right.
We're looking at all the alternatives right now Paul about that business.
And we'll have more to come on that as we progress later in the year and into next year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Maybe one more follow up on the cost issues.
The incremental $300 million hit to OpEx that we saw on this again were you saying was that just incremental capital deflation? Is this more of an issue of pace? Or to be clear are you trending towards much larger levels of cost reductions on a two-year basis than you had expected earlier? Yeah I can take that one Ryan.
Yes we're definitely running ahead of schedule on where we thought we're going to be on reducing cost.
And as we mentioned it's a combination of deflation in the business some minor amount of FX benefits but it's really mostly related to us figuring out ways that we can drive costs out of our business.
So we talked in terms of having this $1 billion cost reduction target.
We're feeling really good about our ability to achieve that or go beyond that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then maybe on at APLNG you talked about hopefully a cargo during the fourth quarter.
Can you maybe talk about what are the remaining steps that you have to achieve there at APLNG between now and the fourth quarter to get that first cargo? Yeah so we're at the stage where we're beginning to load refrigerants.
We have go – a process we've got that's cold turn the (36:10) mechanical runs getting all the equipment (36:12) so the compressors are running and everything's running well.
And that whole process of that sort of integrated completion and then hook-up commissioning of the plant is all in hand and the gas is there on the upstream side to feed the plant.
So we're feeling good about the ability to get the initial cargo sometime in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Ryan.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead Inc.</span></strong> Folks good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I'm sorry I'm going to go back on cost structure as well.
I'm just curious about maybe the sustainability of some of the cost deflation that you're witnessing.
Obviously industry in general sees costs coming down but I'm just curious what steps are being taken to ensure that these are more structural so that they don't simply re-inflate once the commodity finally does recover.
Yeah Blake we're taking a pretty hard look top to bottom in terms of how we run the company and we're considering where we came from as an integrated company and the size scale and capability we have as that company and looking at taking the opportunity now to a bit right-size relative to how an independent company like ConocoPhillips finds itself today.
So there's things that we do in our company that were a remnant of the integrated company in terms of how much functional expertise to have in the center how much oversight versus that accountability that goes out to the B (37:50).
We've done a pretty good job of building that model on our lower 48 unconventional business.
We're going to extend that across the whole company with less of a one-size-fits-all and more of a fit-for-purpose design recognizing that an asset in the lower 48 is different than an asset in the North Sea or up in Alaska or offshore Australia.
So really our employees get it they understand it they understand where we're seeing.
And we're already seeing the benefits of that shift.
We've been working on that over the last two to three years as we've tried to build the culture of an independent company.
Now certainly with the downturn it just puts more of a laser focus on the need to accelerate that and to make it more prominent throughout the whole organization and the whole company and then I think that will make it much more sustainable.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Ryan.
The follow up is on the strategic shift toward shorter cycle type of projects.
I guess when I think of Deepwater definitely longer-term highly capital-intensive but they do tend to contribute fairly well to earnings.
And when I look at the lower 48 contribution for earnings it seems to be one of the areas that's the weakest.
As you kind of shift more toward these shorter cycle projects do you anticipate that to have a negative impact on your actual earnings profile? Or is that a concern? I think you can – I'll take that one.
When you look at lower 48 earnings currently a driving factor there is really the level of depreciation that's being charged currently as we develop the unconventionals.
And we're probably having depreciation charges which are a third larger than they'll be longer-term because of the reserve booking schedule and kind of the relative conservatism that's forced upon us as we book according to the rules that are out there.
So as we go through time you're going to see depreciation rates come down in the lower 48 and that's going to have a significant improvement in the earnings from that segment.
The other thing of course as you've heard us talk about and you've heard the industry talk about is just the cost levels that it's taking to develop reserves in the unconventionals have come down dramatically and that will reflect itself in lower depreciation rates as well going forward over time.
So yeah where you do have fairly weak earnings coming out of our lower 48 segment over time you will see – currently you will see those improve as we go forward.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Two very quick questions on the $60 breakeven again.
Sorry that would be what 2017 production the same that you have laid out in the past or are you changing that production growth? No.
It's the same Ed.
Okay.
Great.
Yeah as Ryan mentioned a lot of the production growth is coming from things that we've already invested in.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then presumably even on that stay flat there would still be some positive cash margin shifts as you still back out some of the older gas production that's still in that mix as you get out to 2017 even on flat CapEx? No absolutely.
So when you look at the Canadian – the Surmont 2 addition and the APLNG that's coming on at a higher margin than a large part of our portfolio with the North American gas piece that you described Ed.
And then...
We always talk about margins in terms of kind of flat price cash margins.
One of the things we are seeing as we talked about it as well is costs are coming out of the business as well which improve margins across the board.
So it's kind of dividend plus a little bit? And then just on APLNG I mean obviously everyone's observed that the Asia LNG market has suddenly faced a sort of dramatic drop in demand and there's obviously a lot of cargos coming on to compete for that gas demand.
I mean clearly first cargo is an important milestone and the CapEx will fall for the project and therefore the cash contribution from the APLNG associates will improve which we'll see next year.
But can you talk a little bit about how you are placing that product into the market for train one and train two given weak demand? Yeah right now we're working through that Ed.
And I know there has been a lot of speculation in the marketplace around the contract and the SPA that we have with the buyers.
We have two buyers we have a Japanese buyer for train two.
And train one is going to China to Sinopec.
And we have an SPA we have a contract with them.
They've got diversionary rights within China and with our approval which we have provided they've got diversionary rights outside of China as well.
And we're working with them to understand the volume that they can take into the country in 2016 and as we go forward into 2017 and I'd just remind people that our contract is a take-or-pay contract and we expect they're going to live to the terms of that contract.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe just several quick questions.
The first one is probably for Jeff.
Jeff on the second quarter what is your cost saving run rate and what do you expect those run rate are going to look like in the third and the fourth quarter? I'm not sure how to interpret your question Paul.
So when you say cost savings I mean are...? Inc.</span></strong> Right.
I mean that you have a program there to reduce costs and I'm trying to understand how much of that cost savings is already reflected in your second quarter result and what is the incremental improvement we could expect in the remainder of the year into next year? So when we – I'll take you back to the analyst presentation.
When we talked about 2014 cost levels of $9.7 billion and we were going to take that down to $8.7 billion that was the $1 billion we were taking out and we said we thought we'd get halfway there in 2015.
So we gave cost guidance of $9.2 billion.
So we're well along that path is what we're pointing out today and we actually revised that $9.2 billion down to $8.9 billion.
So we're going to continue to see that as we go through the year and you can see that we've had some pretty low cost levels in the first part of the year.
The difficulty I have with your question is there is variability from quarter to quarter as we go through the year but if you look at the whole year we're running well ahead of where we thought we were going to be for the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you have a number that you can share? In the second quarter what is the cash operating cost? Well as – well you can look at our – at our...
Paul it's in the supplemental.
...balance sheet it was $2.1 billion essentially in what we call cash operating cost which is production cost...
Operating.
...G&amp;A cost and the G&amp;A associated with exploration was $2.1 billion.
Inc.</span></strong> $2.1 billion so annualized it is $8.4 billion but you talk about...
Right.
That...
Inc.</span></strong> ...the full year is $8.9 billion? Yeah so again that's why I point out that we have seasonality in our costs related to turnaround activities and we'll have some costs that'll increase as we go through the year and as production ramps up in some of the new projects.
Inc.</span></strong> And maybe the second question is for Ryan.
Ryan I presume that now you have reset this year the CapEx at $11 billion so that the next several years the base case is $11 billion also.
Under what commodity price – let's assume that if the commodity price stays where we are what is the CapEx going to look like? Is it going to stick at the $11 billion end up that you're going to reduce it? I'm trying to understand that what's the criteria you're going to go for? Are you trying to – because clearly you're not going to reach the cash flow neutral mark (46:05) this year so what kind of criteria we should be looking at that would set your CapEx program? Well as I said Paul we'll try to – we'll set a capital budget later in the year as we look at what the commodity price and what we can afford.
When we laid out a plan at $11.5 billion that assumed some slight modest recovery in prices.
If we see prices aren't recovering and they remain at kind of today's level going forward into 2016 you shouldn't expect us to be spending the $11 billion $11.5 billion $11.5 billion we laid out in April or the $11 billion that we're talking about today.
So no.
We're going to manage the whole system to make sure we reach cash flow neutrality.
We're doing the right things to grow the business and fund the maintenance capital but you should expect it to become lower.
And we'll provide more clarity around that as we go through the course of the year and we watch where commodity prices end up.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Roger.
Good morning Roger.
I guess maybe to get back to some of the internal cost cutting and the commentary about structuring the company more like an E&amp;P as opposed to a large integrated and then given where you are on the operating cost savings what more should we expect to see from a streamlining or the head count reductions that sort of structure? Well as Jeff said we're well on our way to the $1 billion cost challenge.
We think we're certainly going to hit that probably exceed that.
The exploration decision that we made and announced earlier as I said that's going to be incremental both on a capital and an operating cost side.
Will have some impact on the organization as we think about that going forward so we think there's running room beyond where we're at but it's something that we're spending a lot of time looking at.
And with respect to re-looking at how we run the company that's going to deliver sustainable reductions for the longer term.
So it's not just about taking $1 billion or more out of the cost system in the short (48:35) deflation it is about making that a sustainable cut over time and that's where our focus is at right now.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then for Jeff looking at the cash flow statement or the cash flow waterfall working capital was a negative to this point.
As you think about latter part of this year or 2016 is there a – an opportunity to pull out of working capital as well as cash flow from the business as well as potentially more debt? What are some of the things we should think about maybe as some of these large projects start to come online as to whether they consume or free up capital in addition to the CapEx changes? I think from a working capital perspective what we've seen in the first half of the year is really just the effect of a couple of things is accounts payable coming down because of the lower activities on the capital side.
This is really the – as we've moved our capital program down from the $16 billion $17 billion kind of level last year to this $11 billion this year you've got this lag effect on working capital.
Now that we're kind of down at the level that we're going to be at on capital we wouldn't expect that effect to continue in subsequent quarters.
And then as prices come down you've seen changes in kind of our taxes payable as well come off and be a use of cash from a working capital perspective.
That's pretty well out of the system now also.
So we wouldn't anticipate that being a significant change in use of cash going forward for us.
As I mentioned on the call we still have really solid access to the capital markets to the extent that we – that it's necessary to go beyond our cash balances to fund our capital and our dividend in the period before 2016 when we get to cash flow neutrality.
We certainly have the ability to do that in a very effective way.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Evan.
Evan.
Yeah maybe my question's related to the U.S.
earnings power comment and offshore exploration reduction.
Maybe for Matt I mean I know you look at resource upstream globally and the savings and efficiencies onshore U.S.
unconventional have been most notable to date.
I mean do you see the scope for international to significantly move down the cost curve to compete for greenfield capital? Or in this strip environment do you see the U.S.
and your U.S.
unconventional position as economically superior and effectively taking market share? So does that mean – I'm thinking from a deflation perspective more than half of the deflation that we've seen has been in North America so far.
And historically the international business has been slower to respond from an unconventional – from a deflation perspective so we still expect to see more of that come in over the next months and into 2016 on the international side.
And as we see this emerge then we can understand what implications it has for capital costs and then that has implications for the viability of projects across the portfolio as a whole so that they – what we're seeing emerge from a deflation perspective will influence how we think about capital allocation in the years ahead.
Right and efficiencies here as well.
I mean at current strip pricing what's the break-even period on one of your $8 million to $9 million Eagle Ford wells? Is that – are we a little over a year? What's...
I think we're still in the 12-month to 18-month sort of level to get – for break-even on an individual well.
That's pretty powerful.
If I could slip in just one other – if just a question on the – if you can discuss it the changes to working capital associated with investing activities in the quarter.
That was sequentially higher.
What drove that reclassification the working capital change from investing activity? Yeah I think you're noticing that on the cash flow statement this time we broke working capital out from related to operating activities and investing activities.
We did that to provide more clarity on what was really driving the changes in working capital.
And again as I mentioned a couple times now the real driver has been just the slowdown in the capital investing activities.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Alastair Syme of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Jeff I think you noted a few times about the bond offerings in the quarter.
But I think I'm right in saying that you saw a negative credit watch.
So I kind of was wondering where those discussions sit in the current environment with the various rating agencies and how vociferously you would feel you'd need to defend a single A rating? So where we're currently rated is A1 with Moody's which is the highest single A.
And we're at a middle single A with Standard &amp; Poor's and Fitch.
And all of them as you mentioned have us on a negative outlook.
All three of the agencies confirmed our rating in conjunction with the $2.5 billion bond offering that we did in the second quarter.
So I think the position that they're in is they're waiting to see how commodity prices play out and what levels of incremental borrowing we might do before we get to cash flow neutrality in 2017.
But as we said before as we look at different scenarios of what borrowings we might do and before we get to neutrality in 2017 we're still very comfortable that level of borrowing is not going to take us out of the single A range.
It could knock us down a notch within that range but it wouldn't take us out of that range.
And defending single A would be paramount would it? Well we think that's the right place for a company like ours to be.
It just fits strategically with the direction we're heading as a company to be one that has a priority on shareholder distributions like we've talked about with the dividend that is pursuing modest growth and wants to have the capability to do that through all kinds of different commodity price cycles.
So we do feel like that's the appropriate credit space for us to be in.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Société Générale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Thank you.
With the Cook Inlet sale does that include the Kenai plant? No it doesn't.
Okay.
Thanks Matt.
Next one.
You talked a lot obviously about efficiencies and cost savings and optimizations and deflation all that.
You're a big company as Ryan talked about earlier.
You have the ability technically to run your fields differently than say smaller companies.
So how much of your overall performance is related to that type of self-help from say field automatization so you can minimize unplanned downtime and enhance recoveries? So it's just part of our cost reduction process.
We are looking at our operating costs our lifting costs across the company as a whole.
And we've for years have had a very strong operations excellence program that we've applied across the organization.
Frankly for the past few years we've been focusing that on increasing production.
That's what you do when oil prices are $100 a barrel.
But the same the tools exist within that capability to focus that more on cost reduction.
So we are refocusing our operations excellence on making sure that we're getting the right balance of the right operating efficiency and the right costs in this price environment.
So having that capability and that sort of integrated view across the whole organization is really good.
Yeah and I would add John to that that as we talk about the independents some of the capability we have as a company our functional excellence around integrated operation centers and the ops excellence plans that Matt talked about the reservoir understanding and characterization the EUR the stimulated rock volume work that we're doing we're going to maintain that and expand that capability because we think it's differential in leveraging in the independent world.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jason Gammel of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
I had another question on long-cycle time versus short-cycle time investments and you're clearly at a point where you're hitting an inflection point and capital is dropping away and production ramp is coming in.
But I suppose long-cycle time by definition means that if you're not investing today then you don't have those big step changes in production in let's say the 2019 2020 timeframe.
So my question is two-fold.
First of all do you expect to move towards FID on any major capital projects this year and next year just given the capital-constrained environment? And then the second part of the question is over the cycle how much CapEx above the $8 billion of maintenance CapEx would you want to be putting into these longer-cycle time projects relative to your short-cycle time investment opportunities? On the FID question we will be making final investment decisions on a few relatively small projects as we go through this year and into next year.
We're in a fortunate position that most of our major projects that are in the portfolio now are not mega projects and they're projects that we've executed before like adding drill sites in Alaska or adding platforms in the North Sea or in China so that they're all relatively small-scale things.
So we do have the scope within the capital program to continue to invest in those longer-cycle but smaller-scale projects.
And we will do that.
One of the strategic questions which I think is what you're getting at Jason is for the long term what is the right balance for a company like us between the more flexible short-cycle investment opportunities of which we have a lot within our development programs in particular in unconventional business and then these longer-cycle projects of the characteristics I just spoke about.
And that we have flexibility to we have to decide exactly what that ratio should be and that's one of the lenses that we look at our strategy through.
Okay.
Thanks Matt.
Appreciate the thoughts.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Neil Mehta of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hi Neil.
Hey Neil.
I appreciate that incremental disclosure on cash flow neutrality in 2017.
Definitely been top of mind for investors.
Two more industry-focused questions.
I guess the first one Ryan Speaker Boehner yesterday came out in favor of crude exports.
Senate I think as we speak is at least discussing it.
Flipside is we're going into an election year just want to get your thoughts on the latest temperature on this issue as you've really been leading the charge on behalf of the industry? Yeah thanks Neil.
No it was – we're glad to see.
We've been working with the Speaker's office to get them to support the repeal of the ban and get it up for a vote later this year and I think we made some significant progress both in the House and the Senate.
And of course the Speaker's comments yesterday were well received by the industry and everybody.
I still would – it's still going to be a little bit of a tough uphill climb.
There's – we're getting bipartisan support both in the House and the Senate.
We could use a little bit more of the democratic support for it so we're working on that.
But what chances do I give it of passing this year? We – I haven't climbed to 50% but it's encouraging to see that we may get a vote at least an up/down vote in at least one of the chambers to go forward.
I think the question everybody's asking is is there enough bipartisan support to clear both houses and then to clear the administration and that's what we're spending most of our time on right now.
Thanks Ryan.
And then the second question is views on industry consolidation.
This is less a Conoco-specific point but more an industry point.
If you expect an acceleration in activity with the double dip in the commodity and the capital markets tightening less so as you guys pointed out for yourselves but for companies less attractively positioned from a capital structure than you your thoughts on M&amp;A going forward for the industry? Yeah if we saw some modest increasing in the commodity prices maybe that we would have envisioned a little bit more earlier in the year I'd have told you that I think the stocks are pretty fully valued and I am expecting prices to come back to that $70 mid-$70 $80 kind of level.
Certainly with this re-correction over the last few months it's putting a spotlight on some of the companies as you say that may not have the financial capacity that ConocoPhillips does.
So if these lower prices persist for a longer period of time that's certainly an area that probably would start to ramp up.
I still don't personally believe the floodgates are opening on that but I think it's something that industry will be watching pretty closely if these kinds of prices persist for a longer period of time.
Thank you Ryan.
Thank you.
And our last question is from James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Just wanted to be very crystal-clear on one point.
Obviously you guys had highlighted a 2014 to 2016 operating cost to go back to that issue – reduction of $1 billion of which you'd said about 70% was supposed to be roughly 70% was supposed to be structural savings.
Am I right in thinking that that was really before you guys had envisioned a strategic review of the kind that has been talked about a couple times regarding streamlining some of your let's call the major-like execution capacities? Which would – is it right to think of those as incremental potential incremental structural cost savings outside of that original first $1 billion? Well no James.
When we laid out the $1 billion we kind of had a vision that we were going to go through this process and make some structural changes to the company.
So I would say that some not all but many of those structural changes are built into the $1 billion trajectory that we're on.
As Jeff described I think we're ahead of plan and our expectation is that we'll generate more savings beyond the $1 billion.
And then the exploration decision that we made not to pursue continue pursuing some of the deepwater that is incremental to the $1 billion decision and we're working through what the implications of that given that we have some portfolio and discovered portfolio that we're going to continue to invest in or monetize in other ways.
Okay.
That makes sense.
So down-shifting in that way would be the incremental piece.
Okay.
Just a separate thing kind of following up on the quarterly discussion regarding long short cycle.
But – and correct me if there has been a change in this – but looking at AKLNG.
As I understood it there was a potential for that to proceed to pre-FEED in 2016 or at least graduate to the next step in the development process which would probably require a material capital contribution from stakeholders.
Maybe that's getting pushed to the right but could you describe your thinking on that project? Your participation in it? And how it fits into your portfolio given that obviously we're trying to skew toward shorter cycle projects at the moment? Yeah I think we are making some progress on that with the partners in alliance with the state.
There's still a lot of work to do to get an aligned view around the fiscals and state's participation and what that's going to look like.
So there's a lot of work to go do even before we take that next step that you described into pre-FEED.
I think the companies are looking at the kind of end of this year into 2016 to make that decision.
But a lot of that is dependent on kind of how we see the alignment working with the State of Alaska and their participation in the project.
It's a very very long project.
No resource risk for us.
So it kind of goes back to Matt's comment as how much of this long longer cycle time but very flat production with very low resource risk do you want in the portfolio.
And we're going through those thoughts and analysis right now.
It doesn't mean that there's zero of that in the portfolio.
I think a healthy portfolio has some of that.
We've got some LNG properties we've got our Qatar property we've got APLNG coming online.
We have a large resource potential in the oil sands we're trying to figure out how to break those projects into shorter cycle time projects.
But still are long dated resources barrels that are attractive and should be a part of the portfolio.
So that's going to be the challenge for us as we think about AKLNG going forward.
Okay.
Great.
All right.
That's all I had.
Thanks guys.
Thanks James.
Thanks James.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Ellen DeSanctis VP-Investor Relations and Communications ConocoPhillips.
Thanks Christine and thanks to all our participants.
Obviously feel free to call us back for any follow-up questions.
We really appreciate your time and interest.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis VP Investor Relations and Communications ConocoPhillips.
Thanks Christine and good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us today.
Our speakers this morning are Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and Chief Financial Officer and Matt Fox our EVP of E&amp;P.
Let me take care of a couple of quick administrative matters.
First of all I wanted to make sure that all of you saw the note in this morning's earnings release that we plan to announce our 2016 capital budget on December 10th.
We also plan to host a conference call in conjunction with that release and the reason is to provide some additional details about our operating and financial plans that will include some specifics on our CapEx our operating costs our volumes and also a brief region and program overview.
That's a bit of a departure for us but we think a very good and early opportunity to share our plans for next year particularly given the ongoing market uncertainty.
We will provide the details for that call very shortly.
Now if you turn to Page 2 you will see our Safe Harbor language.
We will make some forward-looking statements this morning and the risks and uncertainties in our future performance are described on this slide and also with our periodic filings with the SEC.
And then finally once again during Q&amp;A we'll limit questions to one plus a follow-up that way we can hope to get everybody through the queue within our planned hour.
And now I will turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Ellen and thanks everyone for joining our call today.
Before reviewing the quarter I will make a few brief comments about how we're addressing the current low commodity prices environment which is clearly impacting financial performance across the sector.
This down-cycle poses significant challenges and we're taking aggressive actions across our business to position for low and more volatile oil prices in the future.
These actions plus our unique portfolio characteristics are the key to delivering on our value proposition through the cycles.
Over the past few years we've high graded the portfolio organically grown a world-class position in North American unconventional plays and are nearing completion on several major projects.
We are increasing our capital flexibility lowering the underlying cost structure of the business and continuing to reduce exposures to assets that won't compete for capital in our portfolio including deepwater exploration and North American natural gas.
As we go through the call today you should be listening for a few key messages.
The underlying operational performance of the business is very strong we continue to exercise capital flexibility and are further reducing our planned 2015 CapEx spending.
We are accelerating reductions in our operating costs and we're on track to exceed our cost reduction target in half the time we expected.
We're in strong shape financially and finally we're closing the gap on cash flow neutrality.
These actions set us up well for 2016 and beyond.
As Ellen mentioned we look forward to providing more details about our 2016 operating plans in December.
So while the current environment continues to test the sector we are focused on the things we can control and moving decisively to position ourselves for a market with greater price uncertainty.
So with that said let's dive into the quarterly results starting on Slide 4.
The key theme for the quarter is the underlying business continues to perform very well.
We produced 1.554 million BOE per day which is 4% growth year over year.
Matt will cover operations in more detail but let me hit the high points.We achieved first oil from our Surmont 2 megaproject which should continue ramping up through 2017.
We also brought on our Drill Site 2S and CD5 projects online in Alaska during October.
We brought six major projects online so far this year and we expect to deliver cargoes from the seventh our APLNG project before year-end.
Clearly earnings were challenged given weak commodity prices.
Our adjusted loss of $0.38 per share was in line with consensus.
Cash flow from operations is $1.3 billion.
This looks low and it excludes impacts of working capital changes; when you adjust for special items including the rig termination restructuring costs and pension settlement expense in the quarter that $1.3 billion is more like $1.6 billion.
So about what you'd expect in this price environment given the impact of higher cost and lower production related to turn-around activity this quarter in our Alaska UK and Malaysia business units.
These three business units had 40 000 barrels per day of lower production in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
These turnarounds are now complete and the high-margin oil weighted production from these business units will return in the fourth quarter.
Operating costs were down 18% when adjusted for special items and we'll talk about that more in a minute.
And we ended the quarter with $2.4 billion of cash.
On the strategic front we modestly increased our quarterly dividend in July.
This was an important signal to the market that our dividend continues to be a top priority.
We also announced our plan to further reduce deepwater exploration spending and began implementing a phased exit.
As previously announced we booked the rig termination fee this quarter.
Finally we are progressing several non-core asset dispositions across the portfolio that provide additional sources of cash.
We'll provide an update on these activities in December.
So now let's look at our financial performance on Slide 5.
The story for earnings is weak commodity prices.
Realized prices were down 16% sequentially and 49% on a year-over-year basis.
As a result we reported an adjusted loss of 466 million or the $0.38 share.
The lower commodity prices were partially offset by higher volumes and lower operating cost after adjusting for special items.
Third quarter adjusted earnings by segment are shown on the lower right side of this slide.
Segment adjusted earnings are roughly in line with our sensitivities.
And the financial details for each segment can be found in the supplemental data on our Web site.
So it was a tough quarter financially.
But the underlying business performance remains strong.
Moving to Slide 6 I'll cover our production results.
Our third quarter production from continuing operations excluding Libya averaged 1.554 million BOE per day compared to 1.473 per day in the same quarter last year.
Adjusting out 25 000 BOE per day due to lower third quarter downtime and dispositions we achieved growth of 4% or 56 000 BOE per day.
Our growth continues to come primarily from North American liquids and APLNG ramp gas which will soon become liquids priced LNG.
On a price normalized basis this should help drive margins and returns.
Now if you will turn to the next slide I will cover our year-to-date cash flow waterfall.
This chart summarizes our year-to-date sources and uses of cash.
Starting at the left we began the year with 5.1 billion of cash.
Through September we generated 5.8 billion from operating activities excluding working capital.
Working capital over this period was a $600 million use of cash.
Through three quarters we received 600 million in disposition proceeds.
As we mentioned we previously -- we currently have several assets on the market.
We expect several of them to close this year and we'll provide an update in December.
As we said before you should expect us to generate $1 billion to $2 billion per year as part of our routine high grading process.
We increased debt by 2.4 billion during the second quarter but added no debt in the third quarter.
Through the third quarter we've spent 7.9 billion in capital paid our dividend and ended with 2.4 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
We believe we're in strong shape financially.
Between cash on hand debt capacity within a single A credit rating and expected asset sales proceeds we have the means to manage through the current period of low prices.
That was a pretty quick recap of the financial results for the quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Matt who will go through the operational performance and close with a 2015 guidance update.
What you're going to hear is we're driving positive momentum in the business.
All things equal these steps we're taking should drive improved 2016 earnings and cash flow.
So I will turn it over to Matt.
Thanks Jeff.
As Jeff mentioned we performed very well this quarter operationally.
We successfully completed several major turnarounds continue to bring major projects online and exceeded our production targets.
I will now quickly run through the segment results and then we will move on to your questions.
So let's start with Slide 9.
In the lower 48 third quarter production averaged 551 000 BOE per day.
That's a 1% increase from the same period last year and a 1% decrease sequentially.
Importantly though this represents a 12% increase in our crude oil year-over-year.
We're currently running 13 rigs in the lower 48 six in the Eagle Ford four in the Permian four in the Bakken and three in the Permian one of which is in the unconventionals.
And we're delivering more for less across our programs.
In fact we have seen 20% to 30% lower drilling and completion costs compared to a year ago.
About half of that’s driven by program efficiencies and about half is from deflation capture.
Production from these three unconventional plays was 249 000 BOE per day this quarter.
That's an increase of 28 000 barrels versus the third quarter last year but a decrease of 6 000 barrels a day sequentially.
As we forecasted given our current level of rig activity from production from these plays plateaued in the third quarter and we'd expect to see a modest decline in the fourth quarter.
Clearly 2016 production will depend on the level of capital flexibility we choose to exercise.
However you should not expect us to increase capital in these plays at current prices.
Despite our stated plans to reduce deepwater exploration spending over time we're continuing to fund activity based on existing commitments while we also progress possible monetization options.
This is important for protecting the value we've created from our existing program.
In the Gulf of Mexico we had encouraging results from the recent Shenandoah appraisal well.
We're currently drilling the Vernaccia and Gibson exploration wells and we expect to spud the Melmar prospect this quarter.
In Canada we produced 315 000 BOE per day a 14% increase year-over-year.
This growth came mostly from strong well performance ramp up at Foster Creek Phase F and lower planned downtime.
We achieved a major milestone during the quarter with first oil at our Surmont 2 oil sands project.
This project will continue ramping up through 2017 and at full production we expect to increase Surmont's total gross capacity to 150 000 BOE per day.
We spudded the Cheshire exploration well offshore Nova Scotia this month.
And that's the first of two exploration well commitments.
Next let's review our Alaska and Europe segments on Slide 10.
Alaska's average production was 160 000 BOE per day an increase of 3% compared to last year's third quarter due to lower planned downtime.
We successfully completed several major project turnarounds during the quarter at Prudhoe and Kuparuk.
We recently achieved two keep project milestones with first oil from CD5 and Drill Site 2S in October.
At peak production we expect these projects to contribute about 15 000 barrels a day of crude.
So we're seeing the benefits of project activity that will help to keep our Alaska production relatively flat for the next several years.
We completed our six cargo export program from Kenai in 2015 with the last cargo delivered in October.
And we applied for a license from the DOE to continue our export program in 2016.
Moving to Europe third-quarter production averaged 192 000 BOE per day.
We had several major turnarounds across the UK that were all completed successfully.
And we're continuing development drilling at Ekofisk South and Eldfisk II in Norway.
Now I'll cover the Asia-Pacific and Middle East and other international segments on Slide 11.
In the AP&amp;ME segment we produced 332 000 BOE per day in the third quarter.
This is a 10% increase from the same period last year driven by Gumusut and increased ramp gas from APLNG.
In Malaysia Gumusut underwent its first major turnaround which was completed ahead of schedule.
In Australia we expect APLNG Train 1 to deliver its first cargo in the fourth quarter.
On the downstream project all the mechanical runs are complete.
And on the upstream project 14 of the 15 gas processing facilities are now fully commissioned.
In other international the Athena rig from Angola has arrived in Senegal where we expect to conduct a six well exploration and appraisal program starting now and extending into next year.
And in Libya production remains shut-in as a result of the ongoing regional instability.
So let me close on the next slide by giving you some updated guidance for 2015 and summarizing the key takeaways from our call.
The title of this slide says it all.
We're reducing our 2015 CapEx reducing our 2015 operating cost and delivering strong underlying business performance.
Like Jeff mentioned this will help drive solid momentum into 2016.
On the production front we now expect to exceed our full year 2015 production guidance.
That's in large part due to delivering our seven major project startups this year.
We expect to achieve fourth quarter production of 1.585 million to 1.625 million BOE per day.
And that puts our full year 2015 guidance range at 1.585 million to 1.595 million BOE per day.
And as the chart shows this represents 3% to 4% growth from continuing operations excluding Libya up from the 2% to 3% we expected at the start of the year.
The table captures several other key guidance items and shows the progress we've made since 2014 and through 2015.
The far right column is our current 2015 guidance and all of these numbers exclude special items.
We now expect our 2015 capital spending to come in at $10.2 billion.
That's a 40% decrease from 2014 an 11% decrease from our initial outlook for 2015.
About half of the reduction was related to market factors like FX and deflation and about half is due to discretionary deferrals and program efficiencies.
On operating costs we're now guiding to $8.2 billion for 2015.
And that's a 15% reduction compared to 2014.
You remember in April we set a target to reduce operating costs in 2016 by $1 billion compared to 2014.
And what our revised 2015 operating cost guidance represents is an acceleration of this effort.
In fact we've now exceeded our $1 billion target in half the time.
About half of these savings came from market factors like deflation and FX impacts but the rest came from steps we've taken to lower the cost structure of the business through G&amp;A reductions new operating philosophies and supply chain efficiencies.
And we're not done yet.
We're also changing our full year corporate segment guidance to a net expense of $800 million and that's a 20% reduction from initial 2015 guidance.
I'll close by repeating the key messages you should take from this call.
The underlying operational performance of the business is very strong.
We continue to exercise capital flexibility and we're further reducing our planned 2015 capital spending.
We're accelerating reductions in our operating costs and are on track to exceed our cost reduction target in half the time we expected.
And finally we're in very strong shape financially.
So we're all focused on safely and successfully executing our operations while positioning the Company to be more flexible and resilient to deliver on our long-term commitments to shareholders.
We look forward to providing more details of our operating plan for 2016 in December.
So now I will turn the call over to you for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Doug Terreson of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
In U.S.
unconventional in that arena industry productivity gains were pretty significant in recent years but more recent data indicates that we have had a slowdown even though company seem to be drilling their best resources and using optimal technology and personnel too.
So while this could be a blip in the data it could also be that technological limits are being reached by some and that science might play a greater role in recovery rate capture in the future.
So I just wanted to get your insights into this paradigm or maybe into this transition that’s underway that is if you think that there is one.
And also based on your experience and with your credentials where do you think we are in understanding the shale resource overall? So Doug I think from our perspective the sweet spots really matter so you're going to get the best performance out of the sweet spots.
And you're probably right that people are focusing they are just now with a limited number of rigs running.
But I wouldn't say that our perspective is that we've reached any sort of technological limit.
We're continuing to see encouraging results from our pilot tests on different well spacings.
We're continuing to run our stimulated rock volume pilot in the Eagle Ford and learning a lot that's going to allow us to optimize well spacing and completions in the future.
And even in the Bakken we're moving from open hole slide and sleeve completions to cemented liner and plug-n-perf.
We're seeing improvements there from our pilot tests.
So from our perspective we're not seeing ourselves in any technology limit yet.
Okay Matt.
So I don't disagree with that but it seems like the industry may be slowing down somewhat.
So I recognize it's hard for you to maybe attribute that to other factors because it's not your company but do you have any insight as to what may be those drivers? We see that in other people's individual well performance.
But I'm not quite sure what to attribute that to.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
I know you're going to announce your CapEx budget for next year on the 10th of December but from a portfolio management perspective is it safe to say that you're focusing more on short and intermediate term time projects or and deferring kind of a longer-term type business? Really what's going to happen for us John is as we move from ‘15 into ‘16 we're seeing about $2 billion of major project spend roll-off as we complete in particular Surmont and APLNG.
So we have a choice as to what to do with that and the additional capital flexibility that's appearing and we could redirect it to shorter cycle or we could just hold on and hold onto those opportunities for another time.
And that's exactly the sort of detail we're going to provide in the December call.
Okay.
Next one for me is a quickie.
Ducks you're hearing a lot of companies now say the concept du jour is to accumulate uncompleted wells.
Is that part of your MO? No it's not.
Our view is that if you don't want to complete the well don't drill them.
So we don't have a strategy to drill wells and then intentionally not complete them.
We are reducing the number of uncompleted wells as we've gone through this year.
We started the year with about 135 wells that were uncompleted and we'll end the year with about 95 wells but that's just the sort of natural course of executing our program.
It's not a deliberate choice to drill wells and not complete them.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
I've got a couple of questions also if I may.
First of all on I guess there was a curious statement in the release about disposals Matt.
And just kind of thinking out loud about headcount reduction large capital projects coming online you've got a very large tail of non-operated relatively small assets particularly in light of a potential exit in the Gulf of Mexico.
So I'm just wondering order of magnitude you've got 80 000 barrels a day of gas equivalent in the U.S.
that my understanding is you're marketing.
What do you think the scale of the non-core disposals if you want to call it that stands at once you get those big projects online and what's the likely timeline to see some movement on the asset sales? Doug I mean it's no secret that we've got several non-core assets on the market including the North American gas assets.
But we're not ready to give details of those at this time.
We are going to give some more detail in December.
But what you should expect is something of the order of $1 to $2 billion annually.
But we are going to give you more detail in December but it's not appropriate for us to go into detail just now.
Annually means a number of years on it Matt.
What are we talking about one year or five years or what? I would say that on average over any period of time we should be cleaning the portfolio and that could be $1 billion to $2 billion a year.
So annually yes.
My follow-up is on Jeff maybe on cash flow.
It looks like cash flow was operating cash flow was a little weak this quarter and I'm trying to decipher what was going on at the affiliate level.
And thinking about your $60 cash breakeven by 2017 and obviously the cost reductions announced today so can you just help reconcile what was going on with the cash flow this quarter and where do you think that cash breakeven now stands after your latest round of cost reductions? And I will leave it there thanks.
On the affiliate level we really have three major equity affiliates.
You have the Foster Creek Christina Lake oil sands joint venture the APLNG project in Australia and the QG3 project in Qatar.
Of those three two of them are still in a fairly heavy investment phase.
So for the APLNG we don't get any cash distributions out of there.
It's all retained to cover capital.
In FCCL this year it's the same kind of story all the cash flow is being retained to fund capital there and we do get some distributions out of QG3.
As we move forward in 2016 and 2017 with a startup of APLNG and as additional phases and we would assume some price recovery happens for Foster Creek and Christina Lake we expect that we would see distributions coming out of all three of those joint ventures.
And as we've talked previously that's a pretty significant source of cash flow to bring us closer to cash flow neutrality.
As we've also talked before as we think about cash flow neutrality in 2017 we have increasing levels of capital flexibility increasing production levels to where we feel like we're going to be able to get there at a pretty broad range of commodity prices.
So there's not really just kind of one commodity price number that we point out as what it takes for us to get to cash flow neutrality in 2017.
So nothing specific this quarter that's caused the cash flow to lag? Well I mean we had a unique effect this quarter if you look at the $1.3 billion in cash from operations before working capital and $1.9 billion after working capital.
$1.9 billion of after working we had $600 million of working capital impact.
We had the rig termination fee which we took against earnings but didn't hit cash but ended up hitting cash before working capital because it caused a shift in working capital.
A similar effect happened on our restructuring costs so when we made the comment in the slide -- as we went through the slides you should think about that $1.3 billion being more like $1.6 billion.
It's taking account of the impact of just those special items.
And as we also pointed out this is the third quarter always is a weak cash flow quarter for us because it tends to be the quarter where we have the most turnaround activity.
In this quarter we lost about 40 000 barrels a day roughly in our Malaysia our UK and our Alaska business units because they are the ones who went through turnaround.
And that is pretty heavily weighted to oil production.
And when you think about what happens in a turnaround you're losing the revenue but you are still keeping all your normal costs and then you're having the costs associated with the turnaround itself.
So the net margin you're losing when you have a turnaround is pretty high on those barrels.
That's helpful thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of questions for me as well little more specific on some of the unconventional U.S.
resource plays you know the Eagle Ford and Bakken it sounds like at the current activity levels the expectations is production is starting to slide a little bit.
Is that true if we remained in this somewhat $45 $50 environment and more direct what price would allocate more capital to those areas? If we stay at our current level of rigs in the Eagle Ford and Bakken we would expect to see some modest decline.
So for example if we go from this year into next year and we don't increase rigs we'll see 3% to 5% decline on our production in the unconventionals.
We're going through the process of setting our operating plan and budget for 2016 and we'll give you a little more detail on what we actually decide to do with that rig count at that time.
But just as a sort of reference if we stay at the current rig rate it will be 3% to 5% decline in our unconventional production.
Okay I appreciate that.
Good color.
And one other thing on I guess the sales goals Jeff rather than try to be too specific as far as what you're selling and timing on it but just specifically can you give us a broad sense of what really are the goals of these asset sales? Is it cleaning up the portfolio is it help bridging a cash flow deficit to keep a strong dividend? And I guess my point is if commodity prices do eventually improve does that become less important to Conoco? It's a combination of those factors.
These are predominantly going to be asset sales that we would be doing regardless of a commodity price environment.
If you think about it a portfolio of our size we're always going to be in the process of trying to find the assets someone else wouldn't value more highly than we do.
So as we've talked about its things like some parts of our North American natural gas portfolio might fit in that category.
The other thing that we think about in terms of asset sales are what assets are just not going to make the cut for us to fund capital for them.
Someone who might be more willing to fund that capital would they have a different value perspective on those? So it's always a bit of a combination.
But predominantly these are assets that are going to be part of any of a rationalization process in most commodity price environments.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Guy Baber of Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everybody.
I wanted to dive into the production the little bit but hoping you could just address the major project performance how those projects a ramping up relative to expectations? And specifically if you could just remind us of the incremental production from those projects latest view in 2016 and 2017? Just trying to understand that base level of growth that's coming on as the CapEx begins to decline.
Yes so the major projects are ramping up.
And Gumusut is coming in.
The expectations we've had the turnaround there that I mentioned which has allowed us to get the gas injection established.
And so it's ramping up and getting close to full capacity.
APLNG is ramping up gas in anticipation of having the LNG plant full for the first train.
Surmont has really just literally just started producing oil in September.
And that's going to gradually ramp up over the next 12 to 15 months.
So if you just looked at those three projects alone in aggregate by 2017 we're probably looking at 150 000 or so barrels a day of incremental production from those three projects maybe 120 because Gumusut is already there.
And then I wanted to dive into thoughts around capital allocation and the deepwater portfolio a little bit more specifically on development capital towards deepwater and offshore.
But do you have flexibility to slow your offshore development CapEx next year the year after and is that something that you would consider in this environment at this point in time? We have announced that we're going to be exiting deepwater exploration although we do have quite a significant program that we're executing next year.
Development of the discoveries that we have in deepwater is quite some way off and we may choose to stay with those developments but we may choose to exit before development happens there.
So really what we're in just now is a ramping down of exploration commitments and continuing appraisal on the existing discoveries.
We're not at a development stage yet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Phil Gresh of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
First question is just on the equity affiliates again.
In the oil sands your partner on FCCL noted that they are contemplating restarting some of the project phases in 2016 that could add up to another 500 million in CapEx on the base level of spend.
So as this happens the equity affiliate source of cash for you guys would be lower and I assume that's not what you're contemplating at this stage.
But maybe you could just talk about where oil sands projects rank in terms of your relative priorities of cash post Surmont to the extent your partner wants to move forward on this? Yes so we obviously engage in the budgeting process with our partner there and that's a pretty collaborative process.
Historically what we've done here is we've funded the additional growth in FCCL from within the joint venture from cash that's generated within the joint venture rather than taking distributions out.
And those are good projects at Foster and Christina so we'll have a good discussion at the management committee on what the right pace is to develop those.
But it won't influence distributions per se because we really haven't been taking distributions out of FCCL.
We've been intending to reinvest in the sort of gradual increase in production as we add more phases there.
Okay yes.
I was referring more to just the expectation moving forward that you will be taking distributions.
But I didn't know if more growth would hinder that.
Jeff I don't know if you have a comment on that.
Well at the same time that they are talking about these investments you have to also keep in mind that production levels from both Foster Creek and Christina Lake continue to increase.
And we've been at a period where we've had low commodity prices and pretty wide differentials.
So the net result has been some pretty weak realizations.
So there's quite a bit of leverage to increases in prices that can happen there as well.
So you've got what is probably price increases happening both on the differential and the flat price side and increased production that's going to provide more capability to fund increased investment as well.
And my follow-up is just on the production the increase in the production target for this year.
Would you say that's more of a pull forward on just executing on major capital projects faster or is it something that would indicate a sustainably higher growth rate that we should be thinking about for 2016? It's not really associated with major project acceleration.
It's more an indication of the performance of our base and the managing our base decline and the performance we're getting from our new development wells across the portfolio as a whole.
Sure okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
You've done a tremendous amount this year as shown on the slides but when we look at it let's say $50 oil this year you've made about -- it looks like a run rate of about $8 billion cash flow.
I guess that's obviously not a fair number.
Can you guide us towards what the real run rate will be given what you've achieved? And secondly perhaps update us given all the movements on the sensitivities of cash flows or earnings to dollar changes in the oil price.
I'm assuming they've gone up.
Thanks.
The sensitivities that we've provided are still pretty close.
We'll give you some updated sensitivities to that in December that will reflect the latest view.
But they're not going to be largely different than what you've seen currently.
We're also -- in December we'll be giving you a better picture of what 2016 will be looking like in terms of how to think about cost relative to this year and how to think about capital costs relative to this year.
But just overall the picture like we said when we look at the balance of cash flow and the proceeds that we're likely to get from asset sales when we compare that to what we think capital is going to be and the dividend we see a picture that is very manageable for us from a balance sheet perspective in order to get to the point where we get to cash flow neutrality balance still within the 2017 time frame within the capacity that we have on our balance sheet.
Yes I guess what I'm driving at is it feels like that price the price of oil required for that has come down over the course of the last year since your last update.
I will go with a follow-up which is kind of related but you said here that you're in a phased exit of deepwater exploration.
I assume that means that you'll be selling out of positions and that will form part of the disposal program that you've talked about which is very significant I think $1 billion to $2 billion a year.
I would assume that that's a phased exit which will sort of be a one-way street.
Once you've left you'll be gone and I would also anticipate that would involve selling leases.
I know you've got a major position for example in the Gulf of Mexico.
Am I heading in the right direction here in terms of how you're looking at this? Thanks.
Yes that's right Paul.
Can you just remind us how big your position is in the Gulf of Mexico? Because I know it's top three.
In the Gulf we've got about 2.2 million acres in the Gulf and three existing discoveries and our intention is to not be doing deepwater exploration by 2017.
And those acreage positions that we hold that we don't intend to drill we will be marketing those positions.
Yes understood.
And that becomes then as I said and you sort of agreed I hope I didn't trap you that that becomes a one-way street.
I mean effectively over time you're simply leaving the deepwater and won't come back.
That's right.
This is a strategic decision to leave -- to exit deepwater exploration.
That's exactly right.
Great that's very clear.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Just I think maybe several months ago that you and Matt talking about to sustain your operation is about $8 billion which was down from $9 billion say maybe from last year.
So are we still talking about $8 billion given that you have actually accelerated your cost reduction and everything or that this number is now $7 billion or $7.5 billion? It's hard to talk about that number without some context around what kind of environment we think we're in.
If we had a continuation of the type of environment we've seen today we do think we'd be talking about a number that was smaller than $8 billion.
But it's in that same kind of range.
And maybe this is for Matt.
You are currently running about 13 rigs and you're saying that the third quarter production -- the fourth quarter production will be modestly down.
So my guess is that what is the number of rigs that you think you need in order to hold the production flat? And what kind of CapEx requires that you have that kind of program? So to keep Eagle Ford production flat probably requires between seven and eight rigs.
Currently we're running six.
The Bakken requires about closer to five rigs.
We're currently running four.
So you'd be looking at maybe three additional rigs to maintain production flat.
And if you look at all-in cost drill complete hook-up and so on you can use an order of magnitude of $150 million.
An additional 150 million? No per rig line per year.
So maybe $400 million.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
I guess come back around on the Gulf of Mexico or just deepwater in general you mentioned earlier on the call you had a further appraisal in Shenandoah.
Should we think of the exit of exploration also including the exit of not yet developed but partially explored? Possibly but only if we get full value for it.
We're willing to stay in our discoveries if that's what maximizes the value.
So we haven't made a commitment to exit deepwater per se but it's the deepwater exploration but if we saw full value for those assets then we'd certainly consider that.
Okay.
And can you give us an idea of what the capital flexibility is once you're away from deepwater exploration or any other type of exploration you're not planning to do by ‘17? And then if I understood correctly it doesn't sound like the oil sands necessarily gets incremental CapEx and we can presume that there is not another LNG project.
So as we look at the total CapEx number sort of as I guess a starting point for when you talk about it in December kind of where we can see that CapEx flexibility that could come back in to the shale plays in future years? Well I guess to give you a bit of a preview of the 2016 budget we expect to spend about $800 million in 2016 in the deepwater exploration and appraisal space.
And so that's the order of magnitude on the capital side that we wouldn't be spending if we weren't doing deepwater exploration and appraisal for one year.
And then there's G&amp;G and G&amp;A associated with that as well.
And that number Matt noted is a fairly consistent number with what we're spending there in 2015 as well.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bob Brackett of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi I've got kind of a high level more philosophic question on the 2016 capital plan ahead of getting the details.
One is simple what sort of price stick would you be looking at in terms of thinking about your cash flow from operations next year? We don't have one price stick that we use.
As we talk about we are preparing the company to deal with low and volatile prices so we're going to be ready to handle whether we get a continuation of current prices whether we get some recovery that's not really going to be a determining factor in exactly where we set our capital program.
Okay.
And then how do you prioritize the sources of cash for that program and the sort of sinks or the uses of cash? What's the pecking order? So we're going to use cash flow from operations to fund the capital and the dividend.
We're going to have some amount of asset sales proceeds that come in from things that we're currently marketing and other things that we might market.
We're going to we will first use the cash that's on our balance sheet and then to the extent that cash from operations and asset sales don't fully fund capital in the dividend we'll be looking to increase debt.
I mean that it's just a mechanic of what's going to end up happening for us.
And as we said as we look at the amount of debt that we might need to raise even in some continuations of some pretty tough price environments we feel comfortable that that capacity exists on our balance sheet.
And it really exists within a single A credit rating as well.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I had two questions but if I could first just kind of confirm Ellen the December 10th capital update is that in lieu of the typical Analyst Day we would have in April? We're still thinking about all that but our big concern here is not asking the market to wait until April to see the details of what our current year plan is.
So at this point you can count on December being a pretty big update on the company's plans and programs for the year.
In the past I believe you've provided some kind of rate of return or breakeven levels for the major projects including Surmont and APLNG and seeing how those are two kind of major contributors near-term I'm just wondering could you provide us with an update as far as what you think a breakeven price is for oil whether those are actually accretive to net income or earnings per share? I don't have that off the top of my head.
That's fine.
That's fine.
Maybe I can follow up with… Yes we can come back to you on that Not a problem.
I will get back with side on that.
The last one is just kind of more of a broader picture question I guess.
I'm just curious if the Board ever has a discussion about the shareholder payout.
I know you're very committed to the dividend and you're trying to maintain that shareholder base.
But when you look at the stock trading from the call it mid-80s down into the 50s is there any consideration whatsoever to maybe shift that ratio towards maybe a buyback program or even toward capturing M&amp;A opportunities instead of pure dividend payout? We've been pretty consistent.
Since we started ConocoPhillips as an independent E&amp;P we thought the way to create value in the business was a combination of moderate growth and strong payouts back to our shareholders in the form of a dividend.
We think of a dividend as something that really should only go one direction and there can be some variability in the rate at which dividend increases.
But the key to a dividend is to have it be consistent and to grow it over time.
So we haven't really had significant discussion to talk about trying to adjust the dividend.
It's an important part of our value proposition.
It puts a lot of discipline into the system to have that dividend.
So you've heard us talk about it pretty consistently.
You're going to continue to hear us talk about that as a key component of our value proposition.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Neil Mehta of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
So I want to start off on the LNG market been a lot of debate and discussion around that.
We've got APLNG coming in here in the next couple of weeks so any thoughts on the LNG markets broadly? And then there has been some investor concern around Sinopec and the APLNG contracts.
Just any updated thoughts there and anything you can say that can help investors get comfort around that risk? Clearly the short-term LNG market is pretty weak.
Whether you're tied to oil prices or you're in the spot market it's a pretty weak price that we're getting for LNG going forward.
And there's not a lot that we can do about that.
But with respect to the Sinopec contract at APLNG so that's a take-or-pay contract.
Sinopec have the right to divert cargoes within China.
We've also given them the right to divert cargoes outside China but as a take-or-pay contract and with a price formula that's tied to oil.
Then we have got no reason to believe that there is any issue with that contract.
Sinopec in fact is a 25% shareholder in APLNG on the upstream project.
So we don't have any concerns if that's what you're indicating about the sanctity of that contract.
And then Jeff on the operating and CapEx reductions that were announced relative to the July guidance can you just help bridge the gap from what are the drivers that get you from $8.9 billion to $8.2 billion and then on the CapEx side from $11 billion to $10.2 billion where are all the cats and dogs there? We just put it in kind of broad categories.
Like we talked about before it's really the same things that have brought it down the first increment.
It's a mix of what we'd call macro factors just continued deflation out there in the industry and also continued strength of the U.S.
dollar lowering both our capital and operating costs in Canada Norway and Australia.
But it's also it's about half that and it's about half things that we're doing efficiencies that we're forcing through the system changes that we're making in to how we run the Company lower employee headcount numbers.
It's really more of the same compared to the reductions that took the first increment of our guidance down.
That's great.
And one last question from me.
You guys have the advantage of seeing the world when it comes to oil production.
Curious on your views and when we're going to see non-OPEC ex-U.S.
production really start to fall off and the decline rates start to materialize which is going to be central to rebalancing these markets.
I'm not sure when we're going to see it but it's going to come Neil.
And the people are adjusting their capital programs where they have the flexibility to do that.
So that will be things like infill drilling where they have rig contract flexibility.
People are exercising operating cost flexibility too which means less work-overs less spinning spheres and so on.
So over time that's going to materialize in the non-OPEC non-U.S.
production but exactly when and what magnitude is hard to tell that is coming.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Couple of quick ones disposals $1 billion to $2 billion probably there was some disposals in your prior plan to get to 1.7 million barrels a day.
But can you just give us a sort of maybe an endpoint kind of impact that it might make as you reshape the outlook? The 1.7 million barrels a day in 2017 that we talked about in April there was no assumption of dispositions in that.
We would make an adjustment there from when we know exactly what assets are moving out of the portfolio.
And we're not ready to give you a number yet because we don't know exactly which of the mix of assets that we have on the market are actually going to achieve an acceptable price.
We will give you some more indication of where that's heading hopefully in December but it's too early for us to do that now.
And that's one of the reasons we really don't talk about the dispositions until they close.
Because you can't know exactly which of the assets that are being considered for sale are actually achieving the price that they need to make it acceptable for us to sell them.
Okay and then so I can see how the production and cash flow moving parts move around with these sort of long-lived assets coming in which lower decline rates plus obviously some short cycle production which you can attack both in conventional and also in Shale.
But obviously reserve replacement is also something that people focus.
I don't know if you've done any long range work as to if you're spending $8 billion at the low end as the CapEx drops out what reserve replacement looks like say 2017 onwards or what are the big sources that you can actually replace reserves at that point? We have this 44 billion barrel resource base that we've described in some length in April.
The 18 billion of that has less than a $60 cost of supply so there is lots of sources to continue to convert that resource base and the reserves as we go through the next few years.
Is that the question you were getting at Ed? So the point is that converting that resource base over time as we execute our capital programs is what's going to result in growth in the reserve base.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
Maybe if I could talk a little bit about CapEx the run rate in the third quarter of $2.2 billion so annualized at an $8.8 billion run rate.
How should we think about maybe this is too much preview but how should we think about moving pieces into 2016? Is that I mean it's meaningfully down from the first half of the year.
Is that a reasonable run rate going forward? Is there still meaningful long cycle roll-off out of that number that will be cycled into short cycle or is much of that rolling off by this point? Anything on kind of the puts and takes as we look forward to the 3Q run rate? We still have capital going into major projects that will reduce significantly as we go into next year.
So I think the easiest way to think about it Ryan is the $2 billion sort of number that we've been talking about in terms of the average capital going into major projects this year that's rolling off next year.
So I wouldn't get too hung up on the run rate in the third quarter but more think about it as that sort of amount of major project capital rolling off from ‘15 to ‘16.
And then I guess a follow-up on a couple of questions ago in terms of the operating cost reductions.
You've been well ahead of schedule with the $1 billion over two years turning into $1.5 billion effectively in one year.
How much of that I mean if you think of that $1.5 billion I mean how much of that is kind of structural versus cyclical? And as you look forward into 2016 I guess on the cyclical portion do you have any thoughts on which way it cycles and is there more downside to that number going forward? Well the cyclical part of it is driven primarily by foreign exchange and just deflation that we've seen in the industry.
So to answer your question you've got to answer that in the context of our price level.
So if we continue to have weak prices that's not going to cycle up in a period of weak prices.
We probably have a period of weak prices it may also mean that we continue to have a fairly strong U.S.
dollar.
So I don't know where you'd draw the line between cyclical and structural but if you're thinking about near-term if you think in terms of a continued weak price environment we don't really expect those to cycle back.
But just in the overall general context like we've talked before we see about half of what's happened is kind of macro factors like deflation and FX and generally half has things that we're doing within the way we operate the business which are kind of more structural in nature.
And do you think there is more I guess on the non-cyclical side is there do you view there as being more to go still in 2016? Or have you pulled forward the line share of what you thought you'd be able to achieve? We've pulled forward a lot of it but there's still more to come.
And we're going to give you the details in December on that.
Our next question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks for squeezing me in here at the top of the hour.
It's a philosophical question more on total returns.
And I know you guys have made significant CapEx cuts outpacing deflation.
Yet combined with asset sales do you view a risk or how do you balance a risk to a negative medium or longer term production growth so that I mean I guess the risk is that dividend yield merges with total shareholder return type of metric in the future? I'm not sure if I followed your question Evan.
If you think about in the near term we are going to benefit from capital that we've been investing over the last several years so that we are going to continue to have production growth from these major projects that will provide cash flow growth as well.
If you do think about a longer-term lower price environment then you're in the realm of trying to anticipate what might happen with overall operating costs in the industry.
And then from the asset sales perspective we're not intending to sell assets that have growing production and cash flow.
I guess the question and I will leave it there so it relates to you're making significant cuts and the cuts are driven partially with the commitment to the dividend and at what point are you cutting muscle? I know you run a lot of different scenarios and I believe the security of the dividend at most prices but what's the cost as it relates to those sales in regard to the longer term outlook of either growth or asset value? I'll leave it at that.
I think it gets back to a comment that we had earlier about what motivates a lot of the asset sales.
A lot of the asset sales are driven by normal portfolio rationalization.
Of course we generate asset sales proceeds from that but if you look back if you look at what we're selling now if you look back at what we've historically sold I think you can understand why we would think of those nonstrategic assets which we got better value for by selling them than we would have had by keeping them inside the portfolio and that's the main driver for asset sales.
As you think about things like the deepwater decision that's driven as much by the opportunity that we see in the rest of our portfolio as it is by thinking about just deepwater on its own.
The resource base that we feel like we have and what are we going to want to prioritize in terms of funding capital is what's been a big driver for that decision.
Great.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks guys.
We don't feel like we're doing things in this environment which are going to not be beneficial to the long term ability to grow production and grow cash flows and grow the dividend.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Thanks again for sneaking me in just a quick one here obviously going back to APLNG I see that the ramp gas is coming up nicely.
I also notice that the equity gas realizations in Asia-Pacific are dropping.
I'm assuming that's because the ramp gas is getting sold at domestic gas prices.
Can you quantify at all if possible and you could just maybe use a Q3 constant pricing for this but what the uplift would be if that ramp gas is being sold as LNG under your contracts? I don't have that off the top of my head James.
You're right the ramp gas as we're building up to fill Train 1 is getting sold at domestic prices essentially.
And then the netback once we get to LNG will clearly be a function of what the oil price is really at that time because these are linked to JCC.
But I don't have that number at the top of my head.
But generally you can think that the price we're receiving for Australian gas in the domestic gas market is not any stronger than what we get for what we sell into the North American gas market.
So there's a pretty significant uplift even in the current market in the current oil price market to move that to LNG.
Because I guess it was just trying to see whether it was a lot lower or if there was a contractually lower rate or anything like that.
But it sounds like it's maybe just about what you'd expect for domestic one just quick last one there.
Obviously I saw that you guys got the go ahead up in Alaska for some of the NPR drilling.
Can you guys give a little update there? I know Greater Mooses Tooth some of these are longer dated projects but what the timeframe and potential impact for some of those projects are? And I will take it off-line after that.
Yes so we announced that the first production from the NPR-A from the CD5 project started just a week or so ago less than a week ago.
We did get approval from the government for the permits that we need to develop the GMT1 prospect so the first prospect inside the Greater Mooses Tooth unit.
And we're working through the process of deciding the sanction of that project but that sanction decision hasn't been made yet.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to the company for closing comments.
Okay I'd just like to make a couple of closing comments.
Because we all know this is a difficult time for the industry but we at ConocoPhillips we're focused on what we can control and that's our production our capital and our operating cost.
As we outlined today we're moving all those quickly in the right direction.
But we're really not just focused on the short-term.
When we look at what it's going to take to win in a more cyclical and volatile future we think it's a diverse low decline production base that gives us stable source of funding to sustain the dividend and we have that.
We think you want a large low cost supply resource base that provides a balance of flexible short cycle investment options so you can scale your growth to higher or lower prices but also has a lower risk long-term projects that can add to the low decline base and we have that in our portfolio.
We also think you need a sustainable low cost structure to make sure your margins are resilient to lower prices and you saw today we're taking a lot of action to get there.
We think you need a strong balance sheet so that you can withstand the low phases of the cycle and we have that.
And then we think that you need to prioritize return of capital to the shareholders to get them a real return and to install capital discipline.
And that's what we are doing.
So I think that we have the portfolio the strategy and the commitment to deliver all of the things that are required for a company in our industry to win in this more cyclical and volatile future.
So thanks for your interest and your questions.
Thank you everybody.
And feel free to call back if you have any follow-up.
Thank you.
Thank you Christine.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the fourth quarter 2015 ConocoPhillips earnings conference call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis VP Investor Relations and Communications ConocoPhillips.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine and good morning to everybody.
Today you'll hear from: Ryan Lance our Chairman and CEO; Jeff Sheets our EVP of Finance and our Chief Financial Officer and Matt Fox our EVP of Exploration and Production.
We will be making some forward-looking statements this morning and our cautionary language is shown on page two.
That information can also be found in our periodic filings with the SEC.
We do anticipate a lot of questions today so we'll limit our questions to one and a follow-up when we get to Q&amp;A.
And now I'm going to turn the call over to Ryan Lance.
Thank you Ellen.
I'm going to let Jeff handle the 2015 recap in his upcoming comments and I want to jump right into the news we announced today beginning with slide four.
With today's announcement regarding reductions in our operating plan and our dividend we have taken significant actions to reset the company in response to much lower commodity prices and tightening credit markets across the industry.
These are two factors that have changed significantly in our view in a short period of time and they have important implications for the sector especially in 2016 and 2017.
Regarding prices there are three factors that are driving our actions.
First current prices are much lower than we expected at the time we announced our 2016 operating plan.
This is amid bearish supply/demand signals and record levels of inventories.
Brent is currently trading 40% lower than 2015 average prices.
Second we believe this downturn could last a while longer.
Just a few months ago we thought the market would rebalance by the second half of 2016.
Now it looks like that can stretch into 2017.
And third greater concerns about global growth suggest it could take longer to reach an equilibrium mid-cycle price after balancing occurs.
Now certainly there's a lot of debate about these factors but we can't bet on prices turning quickly.
Instead we're taking what we believe are prudent actions to prepare for a weaker price environment and for a longer period of time.
Regarding the credit markets it's no secret that the credit rating agencies also see a likelihood of a weaker more protracted downturn.
Recently Moody's and S&amp;P have issued significantly lower price decks.
The agencies have the industry under review for credit rating downgrades.
Moody's has stated that multi-notch rating downgrades are likely and some have already occurred.
The consequences of these downgrades are that debt capacity will shrink across the sector.
For ConocoPhillips the bottom line is this.
We're going to take actions to maintain a strong balance sheet.
We believe this is critical and will be a key differentiator in this business.
So as difficult as these choices are and they were very difficult we must do the right thing for the company.
As we announced we're taking two key actions to respond to these factors.
First we are further reducing our 2016 operating plan capital and operating expense.
Now for the past 18 months we've lowered CapEx and OpEx levels across the company as prices have weakened and we're doing it again in 2016 and that's shown on slide five.
This slide summarizes our revised 2016 operating plan.
It represents a significant shift compared to last year and an even bigger shift compared to 2014.
Now importantly these reductions we're making will improve net cash flow in 2016 by $2 billion compared to the plan we laid out in December.
On the left side of this chart you can see we're lowering our 2016 capital expenditures to $6.4 billion.
That's a reduction of $3.7 billion compared with 2015 and $1.3 billion compared to our original 2016 operating plan.
We're dropping down to three rigs in the Lower 48 because it doesn't make economic sense to maintain our original level of activity at current prices.
And we don't lose acreage or optionality.
We're cutting other discretionary programs across the business which are somewhat offset by anticipated cash calls in our equity affiliates.
Our original plan anticipated 1% to 3% production growth in 2016.
Now we expect flat production given these capital cuts.
We're letting Lower 48 volumes decline but these will be offset in the near term from ramp-up at APLNG and in the oil sands.
Finally we continued to improve our operating costs.
We set an initial budget of $7.7 billion for 2016.
We're now lowering that to $7 billion.
But we don't believe these reductions are sufficient to maintain our strong balance sheet under the lower-for-longer circumstances I just described.
And so we've taken a second and more difficult step of reducing the dividend.
This morning we announced that we're reducing the quarterly dividend to $0.25 per share effective with the first quarter 2016 dividend payment and this is discussed on slide six.
In mid-December we reaffirmed that our dividend is the top priority use of cash.
In 2016 this was premised on using up to a couple billion dollars of balance sheet capacity based on similar prices to 2015.
After making those adjustments to our operating plan that I just reviewed we analyzed the impact to our balance sheet under conditions where prices stay in the $30s for longer.
We came to the conclusion that our balance sheet could get stretched beyond a prudent level.
Ultimately we believe we needed to make a tough choice between protecting the current level of the dividend or maintaining our strong balance sheet through an extended downturn.
We made a decision to reduce the dividend.
This action combined with the operating plan reductions will improve net cash flow by about $4.4 billion in 2016.
Once we made that decision our primary consideration was to set a dividend that will be sustainable through the cycles.
We are balancing several objectives including yield financial strength and lowering the breakeven cost of our business.
We set the dividend at a level that we believe results in a competitive yield.
The dividend will continue to be a top priority.
It provides important discipline on our investment programs and will remain a core part of our offering.
We believe our dividend is at a level that preserves balance sheet strength and provides financial flexibility through the current downturn.
These actions also lower our breakeven price to roughly $45 per barrel Brent.
And what we mean here is that we can keep production flat and pay our dividend for many years at $45 per barrel without needing to sell assets or increase our debt levels.
This significant improvement in our breakeven price will allow us to generate greater profitability and cash flow growth when the cycle turns.
And the combined reset of capital operating costs and the dividend will enable us to generate free cash flow that we can deploy across a range of choices including increased investment into our low-cost of supply resource base but also including returning capital to shareholders.
The reset will allow us to grow our dividend in the future as our cash flows grow and at a much lower mid-cycle price.
Now it goes without saying that these were very difficult actions to take but they will improve our ability to manage through the price weakness the industry is facing.
They will improve our medium-term outlook by allowing us to accelerate performance as prices turn and they will help the long-term performance of the business by making us more resilient in a world of lower more volatile prices.
So now let me turn it over to Jeff and Matt and I'll come back at the end to conclude my remarks.
Thanks Ryan.
I'll begin my remarks on slide eight.
And as Ryan said I'll open with some brief comments about 2015 a summary of which are shown on this page.
Measured against the standard of delivering the things within our control it was a strong year.
Strategically we lowered our capital expenditures by more than 40% compared to 2014.
We achieved $2.2 billion in disposition proceeds from the sale of non-core assets primarily North American gas assets and announced our intention to begin a phased exit of deepwater exploration.
Operationally we achieved 5% year-over-year production growth excluding Libyan downtime and dispositions.
That exceeded our initial guidance for the year and came mostly from the development drilling programs and the ramp-up of production from our major projects.
We also achieved first production from Surmont 2 and first LNG from APLNG which were big milestones for the company.
Financially we had an adjusted net loss of $1.7 billion or $1.40 per share.
This includes a fourth quarter adjusted net loss of $1.1 billion or $0.90 a share.
We recognize that analyst consensus was negative $0.64 per share and we believe this difference primarily reflects the $506 million of dry hole expense in the quarter in our adjusted earnings which we think is about $0.15 higher than consensus estimates.
The FX impacts accounts for the balance of this difference.
Finally we had $7.6 billion in cash flow from operations excluding working capital and ended the year with $2.4 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
I'll now walk through our cash flow waterfall on slide nine.
On this chart you can see the major buckets of cash sources and uses for the year.
We started the year with $5.1 billion in cash and generated $7.6 billion from operating activities excluding working capital.
Working capital was about a $1 billion use of cash during the year.
We captured about $2.2 billion of net proceeds from dispositions and took on about $2.4 billion of debt.
Our 2015 capital expenditures were $10.1 billion.
And after accounting for dividends and some other items we ended the year with $2.4 billion in cash.
Turning to slide 10 I'll cover some thoughts on the balance sheet.
A period of low prices highlights the importance of a strong balance sheet in a cyclical business.
However a consequence of the recent price drops has been that the credit rating agencies have become very pessimistic about future prices and they are currently reviewing the industry's credit ratings using much lower forecasted prices.
We should see industry-wide credit downgrades over the next couple months with the potential for multi-notch downgrades in some cases.
Across the industry this is going to result in reduced debt capacity within given rating bands compared to just a few months ago.
We believe the reduction in the dividend and the substantially lower risk of significant borrowings as a result of that decision will help mitigate the credit rating impacts.
We are well positioned should we need to acquire additional debt capital.
We ended 2015 with over $8 billion in liquidity comprised of $2.4 billion in cash and about $6 billion of available debt capacity on our revolving credit facilities.
We expect to see significant levels of borrowings among our peer companies this year.
And our liquidity balance will give us the flexibility to access the capital markets at the time of our choosing and avoid a very crowded energy market for energy sector debt this year.
In terms of how much debt we will need to raise in 2016 our current estimate is that we will utilize our cash balances and not need significant additional debt if oil prices average around $40 for the year.
By making the difficult decision to reduce our dividend we believe we are positioned to preserve a strong balance sheet in a prolonged period of low prices such as the ones we're seeing today.
While we have been successful over the last several years in selling assets at full value during a period of higher prices and strong demands for assets another important benefit of making the changes we announced this morning and maintaining balance sheet capacity is that asset sales are not necessary to bridge funding gaps.
That concludes my comments.
Note that our appendix includes some updated net income sensitivities and some additional 2016 guidance items.
Now I'll turn the call over to Matt for his operational comments.
Exploration and Production</strong> Thanks Jeff.
I'll review our operational performance beginning with our 2015 reserves.
Final reserve details will be published in our 10-K in late February but we don't expect these numbers to change significantly.
On slide 12 you'll see that we started the year with 8.9 billion barrels of reserves.
We produced 610 million barrels and had additions of 523 million barrels excluding market factors.
So on that basis our adjusted replacement ratio was 86%.
However because our portfolio is dominated by tax and royalty regimes there was significant price related reserve impacts in 2015.
The lower price effect reduced our year-end reserves by 353 million BOE.
In addition also due to lower prices we've reduced our expected capital program for the next several years.
This lower pace of development has resulted in a booked reserve reduction of 111 million BOE.
Now these combined 464 million barrels have not gone away because prices have dropped.
So we expect to reboot reserves as prices improve.
Adjusting our additions for the price effect and the planned capital reductions we had organic reserve additions of 59 million barrels which results in an organic reserve replacement ratio of 10% of 2015 production.
Reserves were further reduced by 175 million BOE primarily as a result of non-core asset dispositions.
So our total reserve replacement ratio including both dispositions and market factors was negative 19%.
As I said more details will be available in our 10-K filing.
Now I'll cover our operational priorities for the year on the next slide.
The midpoint of our 2016 production range is expected to be essentially flat to 2015 production when you adjust out the full-year effects of asset sales.
In the first quarter production is expected to be between 1.540 million and 1.580 million BOE per day.
Production will be lower in the second and third quarters as we see our usual downtime from major turnarounds.
And then in the fourth quarter as we move out of turnaround season we'll see increased production associated with major project ramps at places like Surmont 2 and APLNG and the production associated with development activity across the globe.
In Alaska we're still progressing our GMT 1 project and a winter exploration program around existing infrastructure.
In the Lower 48 we'll be focused on assessing the results of multiple pilot tests we conducted in 2015.
This will allow us to optimize development plans as we prepare for a future ramp-up as our price outlook improves.
We also expect to complete our Gulf of Mexico exploration programs before year end.
In Canada ramp-up continues at Surmont 2 and we have two exploration wells being drilled offshore Nova Scotia.
In our Europe and North Africa segment we'll continue development drilling in the Greater Ekofisk area and we expect first production from Alder in the second half of the year.
At APLNG we're now shipping LNG from Train 1.
We have shipped four cargos already and the plant is running well.
We also expect the startup of Train 2 in the second half of the year.
Finally in other international the second well on our offshore Senegal SNE discovery had very encouraging test rates.
We've just finished drilling the third well and are currently preparing to test.
It looks like 2016 may be an even more challenging year for the industry than we have experienced in 2015.
But we remain focused on what we can control delivering best-in-class operational and safety performance.
And we are ready to ramp up the development of our diverse flexible low-cost of supply resource base when prices recover.
Now I'll turn the call back to Ryan to wrap up.
Thank you Matt.
Certainly the journey through this price downturn has been a test for everyone in this industry.
The easy moves were made a long time ago.
Today we announced one of the toughest decisions but we believe it's the right decision given the circumstances facing the industry at this time.
We can't count on a quick fix for prices and we're not willing to risk a strong balance sheet on it.
These actions will result in an immediate benefit to our cash position create the necessary flexibility to endure a longer downturn and put the company in a better position for a strong performance as prices recover.
So thank you and we'll turn it back over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Ryan.
Good morning Ryan.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe if I could just start with – can you talk a little bit more about – I know you highlighted some of it in the presentation.
But what changed in the last eight weeks? What were the primary changes that convinced you one that we were going to be lower for longer? And does this involve a material change in your view on the mid-cycle price as well? I guess what were the primary changes behind first priority in cash CapEx to cut? Yes Ryan it was a difficult decision.
What drove that is what we talked about in our prepared remarks a bit.
The world has changed and there has been a dramatic drop in the prices.
So we're seeing and enduring a much lower drop in prices.
And as we look at the fundamentals it looks like balancing probably is shifting to later in 2016 and possibly moving into 2017.
So really it was the depth of the drop over the last eight weeks to two months combined with the duration and the inventory doesn't seem to be flattening let alone starting to drop off.
And that combined with the last month of conversations that we have been having with the rating agencies and clearly the debt capacity is going to be reduced.
So when we came out with our operating plan in December we talked about using the balance sheet to get through the cycle.
And now that capacity is reduced the cycle has deepened and potentially gotten longer so we have to prepare for that.
And we made the difficult decision of preserving the balance sheet over the dividend at that time.
You asked about mid-cycle price.
That's a tough one.
It looks like it's going to be longer to get there and there are some downsides and some upsides to that conversation.
The downside the supply has certainly been more resilient than most people expected and we're still building inventory.
Certainly OPEC for now is protecting price – or not protecting price in doing that so they're protecting market share.
I think we've seen the resiliency in the unconventional revolution.
It's opened up a new supply source that is more flexible lower cost of supply than some of the other conventional production like deepwater and certainly some concerns about economic growth.
So those are the things for the downside that would suggest a lower mid-cycle price but there are other factors.
Certainly the capital cuts that the industry is making should result in a supply rebound or a supply shock to the downside.
And certainly the Saudis could lead OPEC to a different decision whenever they feel like the point they're trying to make has been made and certainly the lower prices are stimulating demand.
So there are pieces on both sides of this thing that balance out the concern about where mid-cycles might be going to.
In the past we've had a view of mid-cycle prices in the mid-$70s but we're currently taking a look at that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then maybe I guess as we look beyond 2016 how should we think about your effort to balance cash inputs and outputs? Will you seek to ramp spend in line with cash flow by covering cash flow and dividend in line with changes in cash flow? And is the first call on any sensitivity around that is that a plus or minus on the Lower 48? We'll manage the free cash flow.
We'll set a CapEx budget and the dividend level to manage to make sure that we can manage as prices come back.
Any free cash flow that we have at that point in time we can send back as I said we can send back to shareholders or we can put that back into our deep inventory of low cost of supply capital investment options.
So that's granted a very difficult decision that we made but part of that is setting a lower breakeven cost for the company.
And we're convinced in a world of lower – we can debate what the mid-cycle price is going to be.
It's going to be more volatile and we're going to create flexibility to have free cash flow as the prices recover and be able to react to the volatility we think the market is going to have.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks I appreciate it.
Thanks Ryan.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi everybody.
Hi Doug.
Hello Doug.
So my question is on the business model and the value proposition.
And specifically for most of the past couple decades this company offered lower growth to some degree but healthy shareholder distributions through share repurchases and a reliable and growing dividend.
However because shareholders are not really offered any of those attributes today and I realize that we could be near the trough of the cycle and this could change my question is how you would describe your new value proposition and also the business model by which you plan to achieve it in the future Ryan.
So there are two questions there.
Yes thank you Doug.
I appreciate the questions.
I think we're spending some time thinking about the value proposition as we go forward.
I think fundamentally at the core of that value proposition it hasn't changed.
We're committed to providing a competitive dividend.
We'll have disciplined growth.
We've got a deep inventory of growth options if the free cash flow is there to generate it.
And we believe in financial strength which is why we need to keep a very strong balance sheet.
We're hitting the reset button here a little bit and I can understand that.
And it was a gut-wrenching decision for us to go do that.
But fundamentally I don't think that value proposition has changed.
We're going to lower the breakeven cost for the company.
We'll still provide a competitive dividend and growing as our cash flows grow.
And I think fundamentally the low cost of supply resource base that we have in the company hasn't gone away with this change.
It's still there and it still offers a lot of investment choices for the company.
Okay.
And Ryan I know it may be too early to ask this question.
But my follow-up is how does the model that you guys are thinking about today differentiate itself in relation to some of these larger-cap E&amp;P companies? And the reason that I ask is because they've produced pretty dismal returns for shareholders during the past couple decades even with oil prices two or three times higher than they are today.
And I know that you don't aspire to that outcome and it may not be a fair question because it's still early.
You just cut the dividend today.
But what's the differentiating feature here? I think for us too I think we have to look at the portfolio.
We'll be able to supply growth that we say could be modest but we'll still grow.
We'll have financial flexibility.
We'll have a strong balance sheet.
We'll generate free cash flow at a much lower mid-cycle price.
And we think the world that we're going into is going to be more volatile and probably drive to a lower mid-cycle price as we go forward.
So that's the basic value proposition when we spun the company.
We recognize that we may be moving down a bit on the competitive dividend than we've been offering in the past.
But we think we're making up for that in some of the free cash flow and the choices then we'll have as we lower the breakeven price for the company to reinvest that into the company and/or return that to shareholders.
I see.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
My thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Doug.
Ryan I'd like to follow on from Doug's question if I may because at 1.6 million – 1.5 million barrels a day any meaningful growth without committing to another round of large-scale projects is going to be tough in order to be competitive with your peers.
So I really want to try and understand.
You talked about the compelling dividend not the competitive dividend in the past as making your value proposition unique.
So what makes ConocoPhillips unique today? And I'm thinking specifically about what your first call on cash would be in the event of any kind of recovery.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Again Doug thank you for the question.
I think at the risk of repeating myself here a little bit I think we'll differentiate ourselves because of the low cost of supply deep resource base that we have captured in the company today and the exploitation of it.
It's flexible.
It's shorter cycle time.
It will be much more predictable and it will generate free cash flow at a much much lower breakeven price for the company.
So we'll have choices.
We'll have choices to make as we go forward and the recovery occurs and prices start to come back which we believe that will happen.
Then we'll have choice around how we do that what kind of growth we think we want to generate because we know we have the portfolio to go do that.
Now we're not talking about high single and double-digit growth rates.
That's not what we're talking about with our company.
But we have a more predictable low cost of supply flexible resource base that we can invest in.
And when we generate free cash flow we can decide what to go do with it.
And we're committed to do the dividend.
It's still a priority first use of our cash and growing that as our cash flows grow.
On a per share basis or on an absolute basis? Both.
Okay.
My follow up is on the capital program.
So this year frankly I'm a little surprised you didn't cut more given the challenging economics across the portfolio.
So I'm trying to understand what the constraints are as to why you didn't cut more.
And I'm thinking about long-life assets and how those roll off as you go into 2017.
I know it's very early to talk about 2017 capital but you've got what $600 million on APLNG this year and $800 million on exploration.
So what are the constraints on capital? Where do you think that goes next? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Hey Doug.
This is Matt.
I think I'll take that question.
Of the $6.4 billion we have about $1 billion going to maintenance capital and we're never going to cut back on the integrity of our assets.
In major projects it's about $2 billion and these are major projects that are well into the execution phase.
As you said there's about $700 million or $800 million going into APLNG for example to finish Train 2.
There's about $300 million going into Clair Ridge to move that towards completion and about the same going into Malikai in Malaysia.
So these are projects that are getting very close to completion.
We've got a development capital program of just over $2 billion $2.2 billion.
And despite the cuts that we're doing in the Lower 48 there's still $800 million of that going into North America as we ramp down our rig program.
And then we have as you mentioned an exploration program going on that has quite a significant deepwater component next year as we finish our deepwater program.
That's a total of $1.2 billion.
So we're going to be looking to execute all of that at lower costs execute all that scope at lower cost.
But our current expectation is that will be $6.4 billion and that cutting any further would not be prudent would not be in the best long-term interest of value creation for the shareholders.
So that's why we stopped cutting capital at the $6.4 billion level.
Just to be clear I don't want to hold the call here Matt but I want to be clear.
How much of that rolls off when these major capital projects are finished is what I'm really trying to get at.
In other words this year there seemed to be some constraints.
As you say you've got to finish what you started.
What happens beyond 2016? Exploration and Production</span></strong> As we move into 2017 we see a couple of things changing.
First of all our deepwater exploration program will be complete.
That represents about $800 million this year and we should be down to virtually zero by the time we get to 2017.
APLNG Train 2 will be complete.
And in addition to completing APLNG Train 2 we actually in this lower price environment are also having to make contributions into APLNG and FCCL.
So if you look at the total of those contributions to the equity affiliates in deepwater that represents about $2 billion of the $6.4 billion this year.
And so that's an indication of how much will be rolling off as we move into 2017.
Got it thanks very much.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Could I ask a question on moving to three rigs in the U.S.? I think you were at what 13 rigs moving to three rigs.
The trajectory in the U.S.
I guess would likely be down but much of that being offset obviously by the major project starts.
What does your ability to keep production flat in 2017 look like? Where do those new sources of contribution to maintain that say in 2017 and 2018 and beyond? Exploration and Production</span></strong> So as we move from 2016 to 2017 our base decline is about 8% so that's about 120 000 barrels a day.
So we have to deliver 120 000 barrels a day of new production to stay flat.
And that's going to be split roughly evenly between our development drilling programs around the world so places like Alaska Europe China and some in the Lower 48.
We will still be running some rigs and some in Canada.
And the other half is going to come from major projects completing the ramp-up of APLNG bringing the KBB project onto production finishing ramping up Surmont 2 and the FCCL projects.
So it comes from a mixture of about half and half from development programs around the world and major projects.
Okay.
Then specifically that rig count that you all referred to do you see that materially changing as you roll into 2017 and 2018 at this point in time in order to maintain production flat? Exploration and Production</span></strong> We would anticipate putting more rigs back to work in the Lower 48 as we move into 2017 but that's a function of the capital level that we decide to spend.
Okay.
And as my follow up when you look at obviously the big cuts you made to both CapEx and the dividend can you discuss a little bit on how you came to the math on we needed to see a two-thirds cut here and we need to get down to $6.4 billion? Was it predicated on a certain price outlook or how did that discussion occur? Scott I'll take that.
I think it's really trying to triangulate on three different issues that we have in front of us and that is one we wanted to continue to maintain a strong balance sheet and minimize the borrowing in 2016 which would lead you in one direction.
We certainly had what long-term breakeven price do we think is appropriate and provides for a good value proposition going forward so that factored into it; and then certainly a desire to keep a competitive dividend as measured by yield or other kinds of factors.
So it was really a triangulation around of all those things.
And then factoring into that is our capital program and the commitments that Matt talked about and the capital spend that we need to have that we think makes sense for the long-term value of the company.
So there were those pieces that put us in that box trying to decide and triangulate a bit on what the right level of dividend going forward should be for the company.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Hello Evan.
I just wanted to follow up on the choices that you mentioned earlier.
What's your target leverage through the cycle? I'm just trying to quantify the choice to deleverage exiting the cycle which I presume would be a higher priority.
I'll take that one Evan.
I think whether it's target leverage or target credit rating and particularly on the credit rating side it's hard to answer any thought about a target at the credit rating agencies because the rating agencies are going a lot through quite a change in how they assess the industry and we don't know what – really right now what debt levels are going to correlate to what credit ratings.
But I think the direction of your question's right.
It's just how do we think about the level of our debt going forward.
Just some general comments about debt if you think about what we've done over the last several years we ended 2015 with $24.9 billion so essentially $25 billion worth of debt.
And three years ago in 2012 we had $22 billion worth of debt.
So unlike some of the peers in our company we've not really added a significant amount of debt in the last several years.
And really what we've been doing as we've been an independent E&amp;P is we've funded our capital program and our dividends mostly from cash from operations and selling non-core assets.
And then we quickly made adjustments to our capital program and our operating cost structure as the circumstances have changed to try to limit our debt borrowings so that's history.
But going forward how do we think about the question of the right level of debt and what makes sense at different mid-cycle prices? So last year we generated $7.5 billion of cash flow in what was a $50-ish price environment.
In 2014 the year before that we generated $16 billion of cash flow in what was a $90 price environment.
And you could think the mid-cycle price is going to be somewhere in that range between $50 and $90.
But we can look at $25 billion of debt though and feel like that's a reasonable amount of debt to have in either of those mid-cycle scenarios.
So consequently as prices improve we don't feel like we're going to be compelled to use cash flows to reduce debt levels.
So delevering is not going to be a priority for us.
Okay thank you.
But we're not comfortable and this is what you've heard from us today.
We're not comfortable with having a plan that relies on the heavy use of debt financing to fund cash shortfalls in a period of really low prices.
And that's where we felt like we were going to be if we continued the current dividend that we'd be rapidly using balance sheet capacity while we were waiting on some kind of commodity price improvement.
Great.
My second question you mentioned no asset sales are needed to bridge the funding gap under your commodity assumptions.
Is that a conservative view or does that reflect your view that fair prices may or do not exist in the current environment? Any update there on your current process and what that statement means anything about that current process? No we've said in the past a portfolio our size to expect $1 billion or $2 billion of asset sales.
We just don't think relying on a significant number of asset sales to bridge a cash flow gap in this environment is a smart thing to go do.
And there's going to be a lot of assets on the market.
It's a very weak market.
And selling into that in a significant – and trying to raise a significant amount of money we just didn't think one could you even do it; and two is it the prudent thing to do? But we do have some assets on the market.
They're ones around the fringes of our non-core.
They're typically in areas that aren't – they're either gas or North American gas that haven't been subjected to the recent price downturn on the oil side.
And so you ought to still expect a little bit of disposition this year probably less than what we had last year.
But we're still marketing our deepwater assets.
We have some assets in Indonesia and in Alaska and we're still moving those forward.
But I think the point Jeff was trying to make is if you're counting on generating multibillion dollars of proceeds from an asset sale to bridge some cash flow gap at these lower commodity prices we just don't think that's smart to rely on.
Great thank you.
Thanks Evan.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Neil Mehta of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Neil.
So it looks like the reduction in capital spending the $7.7 billion to $6.4 billion correct me if I'm wrong but the bulk of it looks like it's coming from the Lower 48.
So I wanted to be clear there and confirm that.
And then the reduction in your production guidance that also looks like it's therefore more likely than not coming from the Lower 48.
So I just wanted to confirm that the delta in both the CapEx and the delta in production is primarily coming from the U.S.
And then what does the year-over-year decline look like in your guidance for the U.S.
specifically as it relates to liquids? Exploration and Production</span></strong> Neil you're right.
The majority of the capital reduction is in the U.S.
associated with cutting the rig count and that does result in a reduction in production in the Lower 48.
We'd expect year over year our Lower 48 production would be about 10% lower as a result of the cuts.
And the delta was primarily liquids I would imagine because you had already assumed that there would be a decline on the gas side.
That's correct.
Okay.
And then to follow up I wanted to explore Ryan's initial question on what specifically changed in the oil outlook.
Aside from the price on the screen I know you guys have a really detailed and thoughtful economic analysis process as you think about the commodity.
Was it a function of demand? Was it a function of non-OPEC supply? Was it a function of OPEC? Was it a function of inventories or a combination of all those things? It was a bit of a combination of all those things but we weren't anticipating a drop from $50 down to $30 like we've seen in the last seven to eight months.
We would have probably expected to see inventories at this point in time starting to flatten out at least and not continue to build.
So that causes us some concern as we go into the latter half of 2016 and some concern that this might – lower prices would extend through 2016 and the rebalancing may not occur until we get into 2017.
And then on the demand side like everybody we're following China and the growing markets around the world and trying to see what the economic impact is going to be.
The fourth quarter GDP in the U.S.
was quite low largely driven by lack of investment in the oil and gas industry driving some of that.
But we have some concerns about the demand side starting to loosen a bit as well.
All right.
Thank you Ryan.
Thanks Neil.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Guy Baber of Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question.
I had a point of clarification on the decline rate that you guys mentioned earlier.
But Matt you had mentioned 8% I believe.
Was that for the total portfolio? And I'm just asking because that seems high relative to the prior guidance that I thought was below 5%.
So I just want to make sure that that's apples-to-apples and understand if there's any meaningful acceleration and how you see the base holding up at lower spending levels.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Okay Guy that's an 8% base decline assuming no capital investment no new wells to bring on any new production so it's an unmitigated base decline.
And it's consistent with what we've been saying for several years is the underlying decline in our base production.
I don't think we've ever said 5%.
And the range of 8% has been what we've consistently said.
We haven't seen any acceleration in that.
Okay great.
Thanks for clarifying that that would be unmitigated decline.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Yes.
And then my second one was you all mentioned a few times maintaining the flexibility to respond with higher activity levels if oil prices improve.
Can you talk about how despite cutting the rig count from 13 down to three you have worked or have made plans in place to really preserve that capability and those efficiencies and the ability to quickly respond to the appropriate oil price signals? And with the lower dividend has that price at which you would ramp up the capital allocation to the U.S.
unconventional has that changed at all relative to the prior view? Exploration and Production</span></strong> So we are maintaining the capacity to ramp up quickly both in terms of preparing all the permits that we need to do that and retaining the talent that we need to do that.
That's an important part of how we're managing through this downturn is we're retaining that capacity.
In terms of the price that it would take for us to want to put rigs back to work again it's really not a function of any specific price.
It's more a view of our price outlook as to when it would make sense.
But having said that within our Eagle Ford and Bakken portfolio there are definitely attractive investment opportunities that have a strong rate of return at $45 a barrel or more.
So although we haven't set a specific price in mind we do have a lot of flexibility as prices recover and a lot of good places to put the capital and the talent available to make sure we do that wisely.
Okay great.
Thanks for the color Matt.
Thanks Guy.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Ryan I know you've tackled the dividend pretty extensively but I guess my angle was a little bit different on it.
I'm not surprised at the need to go ahead and cut and preserve the balance sheet.
I guess what I'm a little surprised about is why even maintain it at all with the $45 breakeven and the current price is around $30.
I guess I'm just a little bit concerned we're not setting up for another potential cut down the road if current prices persist.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about how we should think about the ongoing evaluation of the dividend's sustainability if $30 were to maintain for the next let's say six to 12 months? I'll jump in a little bit on that one.
Part of the thought process here is that we recognize that prices could stay in the $30s for an extended period of time.
And what we've done as we've set the dividend and set the capital program and looked at our balance sheet capacity is we've set things to a point where we are comfortable that we're going to have the balance sheet capacity to maintain the capital program and maintain the dividend even at prices that persist at today's level for a prolonged period of time.
So you asked why not earlier Blake and we've been following this for a long time.
We had a view even as much as a year ago that we'd see more lower – volatile prices.
We've been moving the portfolio of the company into more flexibility shorter cycle time lower cost of supply.
So it's been a view that we've been concerned about really back to the spin.
But we've also seen that we didn't anticipate that it would go this low and the potential to be here for this long.
So we were surprised probably by the resiliency of the North American – the efficiencies the economies that we've been able to drive as an industry that has kept supply going.
We're surprised that OPEC has held on for as long as they have to keep their decision going.
So it's been a confluence of factors.
We felt like the dividend was certainly manageable at a $75 mid-cycle price.
We have concerns about now how long it's going to get there and that combined with the reduction in capacity on the balance sheet.
We still have capacity on the balance sheet.
We'll use that if we need to through this lower price cycle.
We just wanted to protect that and make sure we had a plan in place for a lower-for-longer outlook.
It's prudent to plan for the downside case.
We're going to do what's right for the company both in the short medium and long term.
Got it okay.
The next question I just want to clarify.
I think you already went through the capital flexibility moving into 2017 which if I've got correct was $2 billion plus $800 million on deepwater.
So that pushes you toward about $3.5 billion.
I'm just curious.
How does that...
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Blake that was $2 billion including deepwater.
$2 billion including deepwater okay.
The question is how does that compare to slide six where you give a capital for flat production in the $45 world.
I'm just trying to understand basically what that number is.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> So what we'd expect in a $45 world is to maintain flat production over many years would take about $5.5 billion of capital so that's what's shown on slide six.
$5.5 billion.
Got it okay.
Thank you Matt.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Before I ask my question I just wanted to make a comment.
Even though your thoughts may not be shared by many and probably may not be totally right but I actually want to compliment management and the firm for making the right choices when the market conditions changed and I actually think that it will improve your long-term competitive position.
Anyway Jeff I think that you talked about that you still have financial flexibility; you surely do.
So I guess to maybe eliminate a lot of concern in the marketplace can you tell us what is your debt capacity you can raise under a BBB rating from the current level? That's the first question.
I don't know that we feel like we can answer that question until we get through our process with the rating agencies.
Both of them have significantly reduced their price decks and talked about needing to change perhaps how they view the industry.
And I don't know where we're going to settle out in the credit rating bands.
The point like I made earlier we are not uncomfortable with the debt levels we have.
We don't the feel like it's a debt level that is going to require us to do any delevering in the future.
And we do feel like we're going to have balance sheet capacity in whatever credit rating range we end up with to handle a prolonged period of lower prices like what we're seeing right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you have a minimum that what you think that you may have that debt capacity? We may not know exactly but is there a minimum level you think that at BBB you can raise by the debt by XYZ amount? I don't know that we can really give you that kind of number currently.
We do have $8 billion of liquidity.
So regardless of what our rating is we can access that capacity.
I think you're asking a different question.
But if you're just thinking about how you're going to get through any kind of near-term move we are not in a position where we have to be concerned with our access to credit markets.
We're going to end up in this with a strong investment-grade credit rating with the balance sheet capacity to be able to continue to fund the capital program and fund the dividend we're talking about now with a continuation of the current price environment.
That's where we are.
That's a statement we are confident about making.
Inc.</span></strong> And the second question is for Ryan.
It's a little bit of a curve ball.
You decided to exit the deepwater program.
But with the cut in the dividend should we be looking at that decision whether that with your improved financial and operational flexibility you should be able to maintain your deepwater program for the long haul? No Paul.
We made a decision and the decision to exit the deepwater was based on a look at our portfolio a look at the cost of supply and how competitive that growth engine would be relative to what we were seeing with our unconventional portfolio and the rest of the total (53:48) portfolio that we have.
So we think regardless of what sort of mid-cycle price you return to that we've got more opportunity existing in our captured portfolio and that the deepwater as a growth engine won't compete against that in the portfolio.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Hi Roger.
Just to take a look I guess maybe at some of the incoming cash flows thinking APLNG the Canadian Oil Sands as well as you think about current prices versus at $45 can you give us an idea of the impact of those cash flows now to the end of this year to maybe end of 2017? Exploration and Production</span></strong> So at the current prices we're making capital contributions.
We expect to make capital contributions to both.
And at $45 a barrel we would make capital contributions to neither.
In fact we'd be taking proceeds out of the joint ventures at those prices.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then as a follow up it's not a cash flow it's a net income driven adjustment for the change in oil prices to the change in net income just a quick back of the envelope look at it and I'm talking about the slide here towards the end.
It looks like about a $5 difference in oil is how you cover the dividend if I assume net income is a good proxy for cash flow.
So at roughly $40 you're having to lean on the balance sheet for the dividend and at $45 is the way we should think about the company being balanced along with that $5.5 billion CapEx number.
I think maybe let me just repeat a couple things that we said today as some calibration points for you on that.
So if you just look at 2016 where we said we'll be balanced in terms of not needing to have additional debt with a price that's in the low $40s but that assumes that we reduce our cash balances.
So that's one point.
And the other point we're making is as we look longer term at the company in more of a steady state with the changes we're making in a $45 Brent environment we're going to be able to have enough capital to keep flat production around the $5.5 billion that Matt referenced earlier and cover our dividend and not have any borrowings not have any use of cash not have any asset sales come into that.
So you can just that – and then every dollar that the price moves above that gives us additional flexibility as Ryan's mentioned to either think about increasing shareholder distributions or think about increasing capital to create growth.
Okay and just the last question.
Certainly you're positioning yourself for a much more let's say challenging market if it hadn't been challenging enough already.
Bid/ask spread on assets you're saying it's a bad time to be a seller.
Is it at least worth now considering to be a buyer and with the dividend let's say reduced to a more reasonable size for this oil price environment not being really a headwind and slowing you down and then thoughts of capital allocation? That answer Roger really hasn't changed for the company.
We watch the market.
We know what we like what we don't like.
And really the bottom line like we've said for quite some time is that for anything like that it has to be competitive and substitutive in the portfolio today.
And we've got a lot of low cost of supply opportunities to invest in our own portfolio that are already captured.
So we watch it.
We watch it closely to make sure that there isn't anything out there that we want to slip by.
But it's a pretty high competitive hurdle in the captured portfolio that we have today.
So it's not been a big part is not a big part of our capital plans right now.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Roger.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Good afternoon.
You've outlined that the dividend was a differentiating factor for you guys which is why we liked it so much.
It instilled a level of capital discipline.
I understand that prices are now too low for that to be sustained over the long term but I'm just wondering.
Why didn't you tough it out for another year? Why didn't you just have a look for one more year? Because my concern now is that the stuff that you're talking about in debt markets for instance surely is going to affect many other companies much worse than you guys.
And I'm just worried that you've capitulated at the bottom if you want.
Was that a consideration? Couldn't we have seen you just go one more year? Thanks.
Thank you Paul.
As I said it was a very very difficult decision.
We looked at all those kinds of aspects.
How long should we – how long do we ride it when do we think the market is going to turn? And I think it's informed by a view that we had to plan for a downside case of if this lower price is persistent we're going to have a longer downturn and that combined with reduced capacity on the balance sheet.
We've been prepared to use the balance sheet and are still prepared to use the balance sheet but we didn't think it was appropriate to take it up to the edge and destroy it or put it in a place where we no longer had a strong balance sheet in case the worst case happened and this was prolonged for a longer period of time.
So it's informed by where we think the market is today and the changes that we've seen with respect to the capacity we have on the balance sheet to remain investment-grade.
I think I'll add to what Ryan has said.
As you get to a really low price environment like what we're seeing today I think there's a question of what your balance sheet capacity is and there's just a question of how quickly you use up balance sheet capacity.
And if you stay in the $30 price environment I think what you're going to see across the industry is people are either going to have to be dramatically reducing their capital or they're going to be borrowing extreme amounts of debt relative to their current debt levels.
And we don't think that that was an appropriate way for us to run the company.
Or they're going to have to sell a bunch of assets to make a bunch of money in a very down market or they're going to have to permanently destroy shareholder value and float equity.
Yeah but that's my point.
I mean these are other companies that are weaker than you.
I just think that you possibly could have applied pressure if you liked across the less strong companies if you had somewhat kept going with the policy.
And I'm just trying to get my arms around the decision.
And frankly you've outlined it pretty clearly why you've done what you've done.
I just feel that it might be a bit pro-cyclical to do it right here right now just before debt markets get really bad.
I take your point Paul.
That's great.
Could you just then talk a little bit about staying flat as opposed to any other volume outlook? Again people have talked a lot about this but I'm just wondering.
Is the idea now that as we go forward you're going to try to grow at a level at which you would grow the dividend or just anything about the volume the specific volume being flat? What's magical about being flat? Thanks.
I'd say Paul we're not trying to manage right now to a certain production level.
We're trying to manage to the capital program that makes sense for the long-term value of the company maintain our options maintain the ability to ramp back up production.
And production falls out of that.
Production is what production is.
I've said numerous times.
We're not going to drill into this headwind.
Deferral makes sense.
It makes economic sense.
We're just trying to set an appropriate capital level to meet the commitments that we have manage the short medium and long term for the company and production falls out of that.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> We weren't trying to say that our expectation or our aspiration is to be flat.
We were just illustrating the point that at $45 a barrel we can maintain flat production and cover the capital and the dividend.
It was really to illustrate a point rather than to express an aspiration.
Got it.
And just finally I've been a big fan of your analyst meetings and your disclosure.
Could I just ask you? I think it's too much to ask you right here on the spot but the slide that you have showing the breakeven of your resources obviously looks a bit scary now because the lowest end of your band of economic resources is $45.
Much of it is really set on $75.
But if I could ask you to update that over the course of the next few weeks it would be very helpful to us.
Thank you.
We'll take that on Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Actually just picking up on that last question I was going to look at that same pie chart myself.
And you guys had talked a couple of times in giving answers about what's going to differentiate COP going forward.
You guys had talked about the low cost of supply and the resource base as a future differentiating factor.
Can you characterize I guess how much of what the opportunity is I guess within that resource base whether it's PUDs or just resource for margin accretion? There were three legs of the investment case originally moderate growth moderate margin accretion and the dividend.
So we're not going to have growth we're not going to have a dividend but margin accretion is possible as you replace barrels.
So what's the opportunity there especially as obviously we're seeing a cyclical decline in the cost basis here? Exploration and Production</span></strong> We're going through a process just now James of updating our cost of supply and you're right.
What we would expect to see is that the cost of supply of a lot of this resource base all of it in fact is going to be declining as a result of the deflation that we're seeing across the sector.
So we'll get that update sometime later in the year.
We'll be ready to talk about that.
But the amount of resource that's available below $45 a barrel or below $60 or below $75 is growing as we improve our technology and as we see deflation.
So we would expect to see that picture improve and with a lot of diverse opportunities to deploy capital to give us both production growth and margin growth.
I would add to that James.
The basic premise when we launched as an independent company around the growth and margin and production this reset allows us to grow off a much lower breakeven base and make decisions around that.
The investments that we're going to make into that resource base the basic premise again that hasn't changed.
That resource base is still there and it's going to represent higher margins than what the average of the total portfolio is today.
So we'll see margin growth.
We'll see absolute growth.
And yes we've reset the dividend a bit.
But as we've said all along with a lower breakeven cost we've got choices about how we allocate free cash flow and we'll have free cash flow at a much lower breakeven cost.
Okay guys.
Great.
Thanks very much.
We'll wait for the update.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our last question is from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
One question I have is just a clarification on the sustaining capital requirements.
I think two months ago the number was around $6.3 billion and now it's $5.5 billion.
So I was wondering what drove the reduction.
And related to that you're basically keeping production flat this year at around $6.4 billion.
So I was just trying to square those two numbers.
Exploration and Production</span></strong> So what the $5.5 billion represents is essentially an adjustment of the $6 billion for the lower price environment.
We said it was going to take $6 billion at $60 a barrel.
When we look at our supply chain models we can execute that same amount of scope and for $5.5 billion if prices are $45 a barrel.
So it's a combination of that and the efficiencies that we've seen as we have been executing our programs through 2015.
Got it okay.
And my second question is just a question around cash from operations.
Deferred taxes have been a big swing factor over time.
And I was just wondering Jeff how you would suggest we should think about that variable with the strip pricing where it is in 2016.
I know there are a number of different moving pieces there and you gave us some color on the equity earnings line but I was wondering if you could talk about deferred taxes.
Sure Phil.
The situation in the industry I think is generally in right now is we don't find ourselves in cash tax-paying positions in most of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
So in the past you would have thought of deferred taxes being driven primarily between timing differences on depreciation between book and tax.
But now it's really driven by the fact that when you have financial book losses you're not able to – you don't get any cash benefit for those tax losses.
So I would think the guidance I'd get people to think about deferred taxes is as you do your modeling if you're coming to a negative number for taxes when you do your income modeling that's going to be a negative on deferred taxes as well because we're not going to be seeing a cash benefit from that negative tax number So is there a rough level of like $35 or $40 that you would think about generally? No I think it's just going to be progressive as prices improve.
As you can see from when you look at results across the industry you'll see negatives on the cash flow statement really the deferred taxes because everybody has been in these tax – these financial loss positions.
As prices improve those losses will get smaller and deferred tax will swing around first to being less negative than zero and then being a positive again for us in the future as prices rise.
But I can't give you just exact cutoffs in prices as far as when that will occur.
Okay all right.
Thanks a lot I appreciate it.
Thanks Phil.
Christine let's wrap it up here.
Okay thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.