Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Comstock Resources Inc.'s Earnings Conference Call.
My name Marissa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn this presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Jay Allison the CEO and President.
Please proceed.
Thank you Marissa.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources First Quarter 2011 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call everyone.
You can view the slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled First Quarter 2011 Results.
I'm Jay Allison President of Comstock.
With me this morning is Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our VP of Operations.
During this call we will review our 2011 first quarter financial and operating results as well as updated results of our 2011 drilling program.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentations and note that our discussion today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Our 2011 first quarter highlights.
Please refer to Page 3 of the presentation where we summarize the first quarter results.
The weak natural gas prices continue to hold back our financial results despite the strong production growth we had in the first quarter.
We reported revenues of $88 million generated EBITDAX of $65 million and had operating cash flow of $56 million or $1.18 per share.
The gain we recognize from selling some of our Stone shares allowed us to make a profit this quarter.
We reported net income of $2.4 million or $0.05 per share.
This quarter a solid return of strong production growth as our production increased 18% over the fourth quarter 2010 number.
We are back on track in our Haynesville operations having overcome the shortages of track crews that adversely impacted our production in the second half of last year.
With our dedicated crew in place we are more confident about our production growth and are increasing our guidance for production from a 16% to 23% increase to a 26% to 32% increase.
Our 2011 drilling program is off to a good start.
We drilled 19 successful wells including 15 Haynesville shale wells and 2 Eagle Ford shale wells in the first quarter.
We are most excited about our most recent Eagle Ford shale well in McMullen County which has recently put out production at a rate of 1 264 BOE per day.
Our balance sheet continues to be very very strong.
We completed a $300 million senior notes offering in the first quarter which extended the maturities of our debt and added to our liquidity.
I will turn it over to Roland to review the financial results for this quarter in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 4 in the presentation we break down our oil and gas production by quarter and by operating region and we highlight our production from the Haynesville program in blue on the chart.
In the first quarter of this year our production averaged 222 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day and 18% increase over the fourth quarter of last year and 6% higher than production in the first quarter of last year.
Production in this quarter set a new record high for onshore operations as we have now overcome the shortage of completion services which impacted our Haynesville operations in the third and fourth quarter of last year.
Haynesville production increased to 133 MMcfe per day as compared to 94 MMcfe per day in the fourth quarter of last year.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells declined to 41 MMcfe per day and we averaged 38 MMcfe in our South Texas region and 10 MMcfe per day in our other regions.
Despite a number of interruptions due to plant or pipelines being down due to the extreme cold weather we had in the very early part of the quarter the reduction of completion activity for our Haynesville wells allowed us to have a strong production quarter.
With our dedicated frac crew now in place and operating very effectively we now expect 2011 production to approximate 92 Bcfe to 96 Bcfe which represents a 30% to 36% growth over 2010 production if you exclude the 4% of 2010 production that related to the properties that we sold last year.
Oil prices continue to be very strong in the first quarter which we cover on Slide 5.
Our realized average oil price increased 34% in the first quarter of 2011 to $89.94 per barrel as compared to $67.08 per barrel in the first quarter of 2010.
Our oil price in the first quarter averaged 96% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price.
With 96% of our production natural gas the weak natural gas prices offset the strength of oil prices and had an adverse impact on the financial results this quarter.
Slide 6 shows our average gas price which decreased 25% in the first quarter to $3.96 per Mcfe as compared to $5.30 in the first quarter of 2010.
Our realized gas price was 96% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price during the quarter.
On Slide 7 we cover our oil and gas sales.
The lower natural gas prices offset the 6% production increase and our sales declined by 17% to $88 million in the first quarter.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX also decreased by 19% to $65 million as shown on Slide 8.
Slide 9 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter also came in at $56 million 22% lower than cash flow of $72 million in 2010's first quarter.
On Slide 10 we outlined our earnings this quarter.
We reported net income of $2.4 million or $0.05 per share as compared to earnings of $7.3 million or $0.16 per share in 2010's first quarter.
Our first quarter financial results included several unusual items.
We retired our senior notes which were due in 2012 in the quarter with proceeds from a $300 million senior notes offering.
The first quarter 2011 results included a charge of $1.1 million or $0.7 million on an after-tax basis or $0.02 per share related to the early redemption of the 2012 senior notes.
Other unusual items reflected in the first quarter include an impairment of $9.5 million or $6.1 million after tax or $0.13 per share to write off leases that we expect to expire during 2011 without drilling activity.
These 2 charges to income in the first quarter were offset by a significant gain that we realized from the sale of our marketable securities during the quarter of $21.2 million which would be $13.8 million after tax or $0.30 per share.
Excluding these items from what we reported the net loss this quarter of $0.10 per share.
On Slide 11 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter.
Lifting cost for the company is comprised of 3 components: production taxes transportation cost and other field-level operating cost.
Our total lifting cost this quarter improved to $0.90 per Mcfe as compared to $1.08 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2010 and $1.02 per Mcfe in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Production taxes were $0.04 and our transportation cost per unit produced was $0.28 in the first quarter.
With our increasing Haynesville shale production we are transporting more of our gas to the longer-haul pipeline rather than selling our gas at the well head.
Field operating cost averaged $0.58 this quarter as compared to $0.75 in the first quarter of 2010.
The improvement is due to the higher production level we have.
Also it's due to the absence of the high-cost properties that we sold in the fourth quarter of last year.
On Slide 12 we show our cash G&amp;A expense per Mcfe produced by quarter which excludes stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative cost decreased to $0.26 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2011 as compared to $0.30 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2010.
The improvement is due to the higher production level combined with lower G&amp;A cost in the quarter.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 13.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the first quarter averaged $3.03 per Mcfe an improvement from our $3.15 rate in the first quarter of 2010.
Our DD&amp;A rate this quarter increased $0.12 from the $2.91 that we averaged in the fourth quarter due primarily to the lower natural gas prices that we had to use in the DD&amp;A calculation and their impact on our reserve estimates.
On Slide 14 we detail our capital expenditures during the quarter.
We spent $158 million in the first quarter as compared to $94 million that we spent in 2010's first quarter.
We spent most of that $124 million in our East Texas/North Louisiana region with $34 million in our South Texas region.
$13 million of $158 million was spent in first quarter on acquired additional leasehold perspective for other Haynesville or Bossier shale development.
Slide 15 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the first quarter.
On March 31 we had $4 million in cash and $81 million in marketable securities on hand.
We had a total of $597 million of debt comprised of $300 million of our new 7 3/4% senior notes and $297 million of our 8 3/8% senior notes.
We have nothing outstanding on our bank credit facility which has the unused borrowing base of $500 million which was recently affirmed by our bank group.
Taking into account the cash in our balance sheet and our marketable securities and the unused $500 million bank credit line we have $585 million in liquidity.
Our book equity at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion which makes our net debt 31% of our total capitalization.
As we mentioned earlier we closed on $300 million on these senior notes in early March and used the proceeds to redeem our senior notes that were due in 2012 and to repay the amounts outstanding under our bank credit facility.
And as a result of this transaction the average life of our debt has increased to 7.3 years from 4.5 years.
I'll now turn it back over to Jay.
Thank you Roland.
On Slide 16 we recap our holdings in the Haynesville shale play in North Louisiana and East Texas which is updated for additional acreage that we acquired this year.
Our acreage is highlighted in blue.
We currently have 93 000 gross acres and 81 000 net acres that we believe are perspective for Haynesville shale development 60 000 acres are in North Louisiana which we think is a better part of the play.
Given expected well spacing of 80 acres and an expected per well recovery of 6 Bcfe per well our acreage could have 4.6 Tcfe of reserve potential.
On Slide 17 we showed the acreage that we think also has potential for the development of the upper Haynesville shale our middle Bossier shale.
Our acreage is highlighted in blue.
We currently have 62 000 gross acres and 52 000 net acres that we believe are perspective.
Given similar expected well spacing of 80 acres and an expected per well recovery of 5 Bcfe per well our acreage could have 2.4 Tcfe reserve potential.
I will now have Mark Williams our new Head of Operations give you an update on the drilling program this year.
Mark as most of you know has been with Comstock for the past 15 years and he was appointed VP of Operations March 16 of this year when Mack Good our former COO had retired.
So Mark it's your day in the sun.
Thank you Jay.
Slide 18 we recap our activity in our East Texas and North Louisiana region for this quarter.
Our activity in this region is focused on developing our Haynesville and Bossier shale properties.
We drilled 15 horizontal wells 6.9 net wells in this region in 5 different fields in the first quarter as shown on the map.
All of these wells were successful.
And 11 of the wells were Haynesville wells 4 of the wells were Bossier shale wells.
Since we initiated our Haynesville shale program in 2008 we have now drilled a total of 133 wells or 84.6 net wells.
During 2011's first quarter we completed 13 operated and 8 non-operated Haynesville or Bossier shale wells.
These wells were put on production at an average per well initial production rate of 11.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
On Slide 19 we provide an update of our backlog of uncompleted Haynesville and Bossier shale wells.
On the upper left pie chart we illustrate our situation at the end of 2010 where 35 of our 72 wells that we had drilled in 2010 had not yet been completed.
The lower pie chart reflects the net well account and showed net 23.4 of our 45 net wells drilled in 2010 have not been completed.
As previously announced the frac crew shortages which plagued us in the second half of 2010 have been resolved by contracting a dedicated crew which started work for us late in the first quarter.
As shown on the bar graphs to the right at the end of the first quarter the backlog has been reduced from 35 wells to 29 wells on a gross basis and 23.4 to 19.2 on a net basis.
Our current backlog is 18 Haynesville wells and 11 Bossier shale wells.
The backlog in March 31 includes 12 gross wells and 5.8 net wells that we drilled this year so the number of 2010 wells still waiting on completion has been reduced from 35 to 17 or 23.4 net to 13.4 net.
With a dedicated crew that we currently have we expect to work off the backlog by sometime in the third quarter this year.
On Slide 20 we've updated the number of days it has taken to drill the 93 operated horizontal Haynesville wells that we've drilled to date.
Our average drill time for all the 93 wells to date is 37 days.
The average drill time for our first wells was 51 days compared with 33 days for our last 5 wells.
We expect the average drill time for future wells continue to average approximately 33 days.
Slide 20 outlines our planned activity this year to further develop our Haynesville and Bossier shale acreage.
We currently plan on drilling 46 wells or 29.7 net wells to our interest 33 of which are Haynesville wells and 13 are Bossier wells.
32 of the 46 are operated.
27 wells are planned for Logansport 15 are planned for the Toledo Bend North in Toledo Bend South areas and 3 wells for Mansfield.
We're also growing 1 well at Waskom in East Texas.
We're currently using 4 rigs for this program and plan to move 1 of these to our Eagle Ford program in late June or early July.
Our South Texas region is displayed on Slide 22.
In South Texas we drilled 2 successful Eagle Ford shale wells at McMullen County in the first quarter.
On Slide 23 we outlined our Eagle Ford shale play in South Texas.
We drilled -- as stated here we drilled the 2 wells in McMullen County in the first quarter and we also completed our well drilling in Karnes County the well we drilled in Karnes County last year.
Since the end of the quarter we have finished drilling another well in the Wheeler Ranch in McMullen County which will be completed later this month and if started drilling an additional well in McMullen County.
The Carlson #1 (sic) [Carlson #1H] was drilled in the oil window in McMullen County to a vertical debt of 9 070 feet with a 5 874-foot lateral.
We booked this well on production at an initial rate of 548 barrels of oil per day and 200 Mcf of natural gas per day or 585 BOE per day.
The well is currently producing to sales on a restricted choke with a shallow production decline.
This Swenson #1 (sic) [Swenson #1H] was also drilled in McMullen County on our Wheeler Ranch acreage in the condensate window to a vertical debt of 11 150 feet with a 6 119-foot lateral.
This has been our best well to date.
We tested this well at an initial rate of 1 045 barrels of oil and 1.3 million cubic feet of natural gas per day or 1 264 BOE per day.
We've also completed the Coates #1H which was drilled in 2010 in Karnes County to a vertical debt of 9 706 with a 5 422-foot lateral.
This well was tested at an initial rate of 507 barrels of oil per day and 22 million cubic feet of natural gas per day or 538 BOE per day.
Given the small amount of acreage we have in Karnes County we are in the process of trading our acreage with another operator for initial acreage in McMullen County.
And given the nature of results for the most recent well we are excited about the potential of our acreage at McMullen County and plan to continue to expand our holdings in this area.
On Slide 24 we outlined what we expect to spend this year on our drilling program and on our acreage acquisitions.
With the recent efficiencies achieved in the company's Haynesville and Bossier shale program in North Louisiana both in shorter drilling times and in completion times we have recently revised our capital expenditure budget for 2011 to reflect increased activity as well as expenditures to increase our exploratory acreage primarily in the Eagle Ford shale trend in South Texas.
We now expect to spend approximately $570 million or drilling in completion activity this year and an additional $40 million on leased acquisitions in 2011.
$115 million of the drilling and completion budget is related to wells that were drilled but not completed in 2010 due to the frac crew shortage and are instead being completed in 2011.
We expect to drill 46 gross or 29.7 net wells in the Haynesville or Bossier shale in East Texas and North Louisiana region in 2011 or 21 net wells on our Eagle Ford acreage targeting primarily liquid hydrocarbons.
I'll now turn it back over to Jay.
Mark that's excellent.
That's a lot of script for your first time.
Thank you Mark.
That's a great report.
And now this Slide 25 I think is one of our most important slides other than all the questions we're going to have asked in a moment about Eagle Ford which Mark will answer.
But as -- Roland put a slide together for the internal funding of CapEx.
I know that many investors are critical of the company outspending our cash flow this year and last year.
So Roland put this slide which is Slide 25 together which clarifies the situation for Comstock because we're an unusual E&amp;P company because of our divestitures that we've made.
Since 2008 when we divested our offshore properties to the end of last year we spent $1.3 billion on our drilling program which has allowed us to transition from a conventional exploration company to where we are now with all of our growth coming from unconventional shale development.
During the same period we generated operating cash flow of $938 million and had proceeds from asset sales of $520 million which has more than funded our expenditures.
And the key we did not incur additional debt or sell any equity to the public to fund our program.
If you include our expected 2011 activity our total expenditures for the total four-year period of $1.9 billion will more or less equal our total internal sources of funds as shown in this graph.
We should be 100% funded from internal sources to the end of this year and for the previous 3 years.
I do not believe that many of our competitors can make the same statement.
Our 2011 outlook which is on Slide 26 and summary I refer you to Slide 26 we're very pleased with how this year is progressing even though we've had weak natural gas prices.
The outlook for production growth is very strong.
We expect production to increase by 26% to 32% over last year with completion of the backlog of wells drilled in 2010.
Our low-cost structure is the strength in this period of low gas prices.
We saw a continued improvement to our cost structure in this quarter.
Our Eagle Ford shale program in South Texas is progressing as we expected.
We have now tested our acreage and we'll focus on developing our acreage in McMullen County in the condensate window in 2011.
During this period of weak natural gas prices Eagle Ford program gives us a higher return area to grow our oil condensate and natural gas liquids production.
We continue to manage our longer-term commitments to allow us access to the services we need for our drilling program while at the same time giving us flexibility to respond to stronger or to weaker prices.
We've reduced the rigs we're using from 7 to 5 and have the flexibility to release another 1 early this year.
We had to make amendments to have adequate completion services but we maintain flexibility to reduce this exposure if prices erode.
We continue to maintain a very very strong balance sheet.
We have $500 million available on our bank credit facility and $81 million in marketable securities to supplement the cash flow we would generate.
And as shown on Slide 25 the earlier slide we've been able to fund the growth in our reserve and production exclusively from internally-generated funds over the last 3 years and through the end of this year.
For the rest of the call I will take questions from research analysts who follow the stock.
Marissa I'll turn it over to you.
[Operator Instructions] You have your first question from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here for you.
Just trying to get a sense of what your current well costs are in the Haynesville and Eagle Ford these days.
Yes this is Mark.
In the Haynesville we're probably between $9.5 million and $10 million on an average well cost.
In the Eagle Ford our initial wells are all pilot holes and have additional science so they're a little north of $9 million.
But our development well plans are in the $8 million $8.5 million range.
So we're a number down from there.
LLC</strong> Got you.
All right.
And I wanted to get a sense of how some of your Eagle Ford wells have kind of held in there if you got 4 on production now.
If I'm right about that? We've been pleased overall with our decline rates are less than our initial projected decline rates.
And so we've adjusted our type curve somewhat and we're still monitoring that.
It's early on these wells and we're still evaluating but we're very pleased with the declines so far.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess you have those wells on pumps I imagine.
And can you maybe give us a little bit more color around sort of how they performed better than the decline curves maybe quantify that at all for us? All of our wells are still producing naturally.
We have not installed artificial lift on anything.
We're probably getting fairly close on the NWR well but it's still producing adequately without.
LLC</strong> Okay got you.
Just last one question here for you.
I noticed that your other gas production was up sequentially this quarter of about $3 million a day.
I was curious.
Are you guys drilling some wells elsewhere on your property outside of the Haynesville and Eagle Ford? Just trying to get a sense of what was driving some of the growth on your other properties there.
Yes this is Roland.
Yes the other regions had a little burst of extra production this quarter and that's mainly due to a Granite Wash well that we participated in as a non-operator in our kind of mid-continent region.
So I think we had one of those last year.
This is the second one.
So there's probably a few of those out there.
LLC</strong> All right.
Then I guess there would be a couple more of those potentially on the schedule for this year? I don't know.
Not really sure because it's really up to the operator on the timing.
So we don't have any pending AFPs for a Granite Wash well right now.
Thank you Leo.
Remember one thing Leo.
Our goal in Eagle Ford is like an $8 million well and we're about $8.5 million as Mark said.
And then Haynesville is about $9 million or $9 million $9.5 million.
Those are similar numbers that we gave out last time.
And the goal in Eagle Ford we're treating Eagle Ford like we treated the Haynesville.
We wanted to drill a well on each of the counties as Coates or Karnes and McMullen.
And you'll notice that we focused on McMullen.
We've got another well as TD and we're drilling another well as Mark said in McMullen currently.
And the acreage in Karnes County since it's a couple of thousand acres we did think we'll probably be able to trade it and add it to our McMullen acreage.
And our budget as far as lease budget a lot of that is to add Eagle Ford acreage.
So that's to kind of clarifying some of your questions.
LLC</strong> That's very helpful Jay.
And I guess there's a quick follow-on to that.
You said you have a couple of thousand acres in Karnes.
I guess how much do you have currently have in McMullen? Outside 13 000.
Out of the 18 000 net it's probably 13 000 14 000.
It's the key.
And your next question comes from the line of Kim Pacanovsky from MLV.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC</strong> I was wondering Mark if you could talk about some of the completion issues you had on a few wells.
Obviously there's a big difference in IP rate between the Swenson which was a very strong well and the other 2 wells drilled in McMullen County.
And I realized that the lateral lengths are a little bit different particularly with the Rancho Très Hijos.
But if you could just talk about maybe some of the issues you have had is it some stages not coming off and what kind of a tax you're taking to solving these problems.
And have you had any issues staying in zone? Kim on the initial well on RGH we've had a little more trouble staying in zone than we did on the Swenson.
It's a little more complex.
It was our first well and very little well-controlled area.
But most of that interval is in zone.
Like you said it's a short lateral.
It was our initial frac job.
We have adjusted the frac designs to larger hybrid-type designs from more of a cross-linked-type design which we feel has improved things.
The lateral length has improved.
Overall we've been able to get our stages pumped.
We may have one here or there that doesn't pump to completion.
But generally the wells they frac adequately.
So I think the frac design has been -- change has been one of the keys.
The Swenson is in a deeper part of our acreage which is going to provide more energy and we feel like it's going to be the better part on an IP basis anyway.
So we've got some benefit from that.
I think all those things together.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC</strong> Great.
And have you thought about the booter [ph] potential on your acreage? We are monitoring what's going on but we have not evaluated the booter yet.
We do get information when we drill the pilot holes and we log through the Buddha and get that data.
And we'll monitor what some of the other operators’ doing but we have not really evaluated.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC</strong> Okay.
And finally what are the leasehold commitments that are remaining in the Haynesville closure? We had -- since the beginning of the year we needed to drill I think 16 wells in order to hold our acreage which is either Haynesville or Bossier.
And we'll drill 29 net wells this year.
So we'll have HBP'd [held by production] all of our acreage for 2011 2012.
We might have some commitments starting back in 2013 but we really don't have any commitments that I'm aware of in 2011.
2012.
I mean 2012.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC</strong> Okay great.
And I guess I'll just ask one more question.
Do you have any water issues in the Eagle Ford? In terms of source water or...
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC</strong> In terms of source yes.
No we've been able to drill regional wells to get our source water at this time and everything's worked out fine.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC</strong> Okay.
Super.
All right.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line up Michael Bodino from Global Hunter Securities.
LLC</strong> I just have a couple of quick follow-up questions.
I may have missed something switching conference calls here.
But Roland could you give us a little color on the exploration expense and then why it's so high for the quarter and then your thoughts on the exploration expense going forward? Sure Michael.
Included in the exploration expense is an impairment that we took this quarter on our mainly our Haynesville lease position.
As we come to the end of the initial 3-year terms of these leases there is a handful of leases in kind of struggling areas.
I'd say a lot of that was either Shelby County Texas or Caddo Parish that yes that we don't see that are -- it's on the very marginal part of Haynesville so we went through it and did a process of scrubbing down the acreage and saying these are going to probably expire without us drilling.
And so that's what that $9.5 million charge for lease is in the quarter which shows up an exploration expense because it was for evaluated properties but it's actually more of an impairment.
So on a go-forward basis we really don't see very much in exploration expense.
Every now and then we acquire a little seismic to support the exploration program and that's been our exploration expense in the past so I think it would be a very small number going forward.
And we typically we just don't like to drill dry holes anymore so we don't have much of that in exploration expense and hopefully we continue to do that.
LLC</strong> Very good and on the South Texas production can you break that down in terms of the Eagle Ford production in conventional South Texas for us for the quarter? I don't I have that number right on hand but I think the Eagle Ford -- what do you think the Eagle Ford's averaged about? A lot of wells like the Swenson well didn't come on production until the second quarter really.
I think it was...
[ph] 11% or something like that the most.
Yes.
It's not a large percentage.
It's a good percentage of the oil there because we didn't have hardly any oil there before.
[ph] Another we had -- when we sold Laurel Mississippi we had about 1 200 BOE that we sold on our -- our Eagle Ford production is greater than that.
When we have our first well it was 381 barrel of oil per day.
The second well was 432.
The third well was like 450.
The Carlson well was over 500 and we've added the Swenson well.
Yes.
I'd say about probably 20% of our South Texas production is now Eagle Ford on a quick calculation.
We averaged about 1 000 barrels a day for oil production in the South Texas region in the quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One last question.
I'll jump back in the queue.
You're relative to do an acreage swap in South Texas.
Would you end up exceeding your core position? And in McMullen County would you contemplate moving more aggressively in terms of a drilling program there? Would you put several production facility then? Well I think our goal is to move a second rig which would be a rig we have in the Haynesville to the Eagle Ford probably next month or the beginning of July.
And then when we have our third quarter conference call I think we'll indicate to you if we're going to move a third rig over which would be sometime in the fourth quarter.
If not early on in 2012.
But at the beginning of this year we said it probably would be a 3.5 rig program in the Haynesville and a 1.5 rig program in the Eagle Ford for the year.
That would be average for the year.
But if again I think the way we're set up with the rigs and with the service crews the frac crews and even our position in Eagle Ford if we drill 21 gross wells it's actually a net #2.
Because we own a 100% working interest in these wells.
So we completely have the ability to shift a rig more sooner than later to the Eagle Ford out of the Haynesville if we want to.
And that will be based totally upon commodity price really and performance of the wells that we drill in McMullen particularly on the Wheeler Ranch.
And again we drilled another well since this conference call.
We haven't tested it and we're drilling another well.
And that's where we will focus.
And we expect the results to be good.
So if anything we would accelerate our Eagle Ford drilling and decelerate the Haynesville.
And stay within the new CapEx budget.
And we did add dollars for leasehold cost because we do plan on adding some acreage if possible in Eagle Ford play.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
To your Slide 25 that you all put in the presentation can we assume maybe in 2012 that you'll be close to kind of totally in funding with internal sources for 2012 -- Yes Brian this is Roland.
Yes that is definitely going to be a major objective because as Slide 25 does show that the proceeds that we had available for the very large divestitures especially offshore divestiture which this year as we have in steady energy are really just part of those proceeds.
And we will have pretty much used those this year with this year's program.
So the goal is to come up with a program next year to get us the best reserve and production growth within cash flow and we'll look forward and see if gas prices have strengthened.
I think what we've been trying to do this year is develop the ability to grow on the oil and liquid side and that's what the Eagle Ford program -- as it continues to have good results we put together more acreage.
We put together our infrastructure.
We want to see that -- that could be the big program for 2012 if the oil and gas prices are still in the same relationship and it warrants.
But we're definitely going to have a lot more tools available to us at the end of this year and we won't have any real commitments to have to hold our acreage in the Haynesville next year either.
So this year gets a lot of things in place to be able to accomplish that for next year.
Yes.
That Slide was really to show you I mean visibly that we intentionally have recreated the company.
We didn't sell boggard[ph] because it was a distress sale in this town.
We sold it because it was the right thing to do.
And we weren't one of the companies that purchased at the market peak.
We didn't do that either.
And then I don't think we're a company that became reckless drilling wells in the Haynesville prematurely.
We drilled one net well in the Haynesville in '08.
We drilled 43 in '09 72 last year and we'll drill our share this year.
But that slide shows you that we're running this company based upon a per-share-stock appreciation.
And we have an issue the equity or head in the out balance sheet type financings in order to create the transition that we've accomplished.
We've added the Eagle Ford at right price.
And like Roland said in 2012 we should exit this year with this 30% 35% plus production growth and you can take that production rate and you can use whatever oil and gas price you want to use.
But I mean we should have $400 million $500 million of operating cash flow and that is what we expect our CapEx budget to be in 2012.
It will be a balanced budget is our goal.
And again as we said we won't have to fund any Haynesville program in order to hold acreage now.
I would anticipate a rig or a rig and a half in the Haynesville just to keep production at a decent rate.
But we'll focus more on the oil and condensate windows which is what Mark has done recently.
Okay guys that was very helpful.
And then just one final question.
Can you maybe comment about what's your current production is and what's your current oil production is? Brian this is Roland.
I think our current production is running close to about $240 million a day.
And now the last week or so with the tornado activity in North Louisiana especially we had some significant shut-ins while power was down in some of our big gas-producing areas but those lasted virtually maybe a day or 2.
So it probably won't have a significant impact for the second quarter is coming up.
But we do have a lot of production that is concentrated out of our Logansport area especially at our largest producing area.
And a regional problem like that can affect us.
Hopefully the weather gets calmer out there the rest of the quarter.
So that's kind of more or less the -- that that's the total equivalent of production.
I don't really have a current breakdown on the oil but it's probably up and Mark probably has it here anyway.
1 800 to 2 000 barrels a day I think with the Eagle Ford right now.
And your next question comes from the line of John Freeman from Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> I just want to go into the CapEx a little bit more.
I'm just trying to get a sense of where the bulk of the increase is going? I'm just sort of looking at the net wells drilled 50 wells roughly.
That's 50 last time.
And it looks like the carry-over impact from 2010 was about $5 million of what you all had previously said.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of what the new number of completed wells is for 2011 versus you all were budgeting? Basically they were 2 -- virtually 2 new net wells in the Haynesville program that are in that budget versus the other one.
So it didn't sound like a lot but the wells at $9 million to $10 million they add a lot of cost.
And some of those are non-operated.
Just more proposals from other operators that we participate in the Haynesville.
And then also just a little shorter drilling time has affected that number.
But the big impact on it was the fact that the completion crew is much more efficient and effective and now that it's in place we see getting through the entire backlog.
And then not only that what was happening before was even though -- you see the carry over we always thought we'd get those done more or less but it's really the wells drilled in 2011.
Would all those completed? And this new budget assumes that for the most part they will because we see our dedicated crew really -- as we get to the fourth quarter it's going to be almost looking for work.
So we don't see that we have any delays at all.
So we're going to have our -- we'll be down to a very few wells at the end of the year that aren't been completed.
And that's a change in the earlier budget estimate where we thought we might carry over as many 10-plus wells to the next year to be completed.
And since more than half of the cost are completion costs it can add a fair amount of dollars.
I think the Eagle Ford program is pretty similar to our original projection.
It hasn't changed much at all.
And then we added the $40 million.
As we see opportunities to acquire leases that we didn't think we would have in the Eagle Ford in the area we want to focus in we feel like that money will get spent so want to get that in the budget.
Remember we had budgeted for this dedicated crew to complete about 4 wells per month and in fact they've completed about 6 wells per month.
I mean they're as Roland said they are very efficient and effective and the production rate shows that.
Inc.</strong> So of the roughly $48 million increase in the actual drilling budget it's mainly just a difference as you just said Jay and you were budgeting 4 wells complete a month to south of 6.
You're almost completing 10 more wells period for the whole year.
And these are 100%-owned wells.
So it's not really a new cost that's going to be incurred in total by the company.
It's just the timing of it.
It would have been cost that would go into 2012.
So in general it's not a new cost for the company in general.
It's just how does it fit into the calendar years.
Where last year services prevented us from getting the things done and put in the proper calendar year.
This year it's the opposite.
We're going to have more than enough services to get all the work we could possibly want to do in the Haynesville done this year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just one more for me.
Last quarter you all had mentioned that the only kind of constraint on you all going from 2 rigs here in the Eagle Ford midyear to adding a third rig at some point which is the infrastructure.
Can you just sort of give any update? Is that still the case that would prevent you from being able to add a third rig some time later this year? Well really it's a combination of how much acreage we have and how fast we can get it prepared to drill and the rig commitment we need to drill that acreage.
So as we add acreage this year with our proposed expenditures in the budget that will enable us to look forward and bring a third rig in.
Whereas right now with our acreage count we're pretty comfortable with the 2-rig program for this year.
Infrastructure wise there are a lot of issues in South Texas with getting the oil transported out.
It's not so much a gas issue as it is an oil issue but our marketing group our marketing VP is working with 2 large oil haulers and we expect that problem to be minimal for us.
And your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Just a few questions.
You mentioned in the press release and you've tested on it a little bit over the course of the call but your improved efficiencies in the Haynesville.
Just now you talked about some of that is the frac crews working faster than you'd expected.
Can you give me an idea of maybe what we might see the unit cost trend looking like say lifting cost for a total oil if you like as we progress through the year? Sure Noel.
On lifting cost because you saw the --  as production started to come back and from the Haynesville you saw the big improvement in lifting cost and that was not just the Haynesville.
It was also we've removed our very highest cost property.
Is one reason we sold the Laurel properties because of the very high lifting cost.
So basically our fixed lifting cost if you exclude transportation and production taxes is relatively flat in our Haynesville program.
So the higher volumes just drive the unit cost down.
That number is different and the Eagle Ford becomes more and more --  there's more and more oil production from the Eagle Ford.
There's going to be the opposite of that.
That's going to be in a higher cost production to handle because we have both the oil storage oil handling also some water disposal.
These oil properties are generally are much more expensive to operate than gas properties.
So that will start to offset some of those big savings from the Haynesville.
But I think the Haynesville is growing so fast this year with the completions that you won't notice the inferred additional cost.
But I think it's something for next year.
I think we'll probably drive down the very low lifting rate this year but then we'll start to have to see that increase especially for 2012 if we focus on the oil side.
Converse is you have yes much higher revenues to offset that.
Then for Haynesville lifting cost where do you think on a unit basis the trough quarter might be? Do you think you'll actually be fourth quarter? Do you think third will be kind of...
Fourth will be the lowest because it's going to be -- we think that will be our very largest production quarter.
I'm sorry is that fourth? Yes fourth quarter.
We continue to see it build unless we have some disruptive event or trends change.
But we expect to see the fourth quarter be the largest production quarter from the Haynesville and then it'll all depend on our budget for 2012 how much we devote to that area.
The only cost that's going to be very variable and maybe even slowly increasing is transportation cost.
That's going to be based on the volumes there and the more volumes and the higher percentage the Haynesville makes up the larger that will look.
But it's more than offset by the savings in the fixed cost and production taxes continue to be fairly very modest this year because most of the new wells that we're completing -- the Haynesville are exempt initially from production taxes for their first up to 2-year period.
So until the Eagle Ford becomes a bigger share of the production where you're going to have -- oil has higher production tax rates plus it's not exempt.
You'll see those numbers getting better and better.
Great.
And actually on the drilling time side on the Haynesville I think the average was 33 days for the last few wells.
Do you think that's about come down as to as fast as it will be? Do you think we'll still see a little bit more improvement by the end of the year? I think we squeezed most of our improvement and efficiency out of the drilling side of the equation.
And we should hold pretty flat at that 33 from here on.
Okay.
Great.
And also you had talked a little bit about the differences among your Eagle Ford wells so far.
And I was wondering aside from being able to stay in zone better and better completion and so forth can you kind of contrast between say your earliest wells like the NWR well and the most recent one just I guess you've more or less have been heading south than east.
Just sort of the differences into the geology as you've had in the McMullen and as you've talked about just variability of the rock and what that means for how important or how difficult it will be to sight wells going forward? Well I had said earlier that kind of give us an overview and I'll let Mark comment.
Remember our goal we talked -- if we look on Tab 23 the middle of the condensate window as we've drawn it is our Wheeler Ranch.
No we didn't drill our first well in McMullen.
We drilled it at Atascosa a shallow oil and then we went to the kind of Wilson-Karnes type area.
Then we drilled to the northwest in McMullen but our goal was to drill wells on all of our acreage footprints.
I don't think that we ever thought the Atascosa well would be one of our better wells but we wanted to drill it anyhow.
And we finally ended up as Mark mentioned earlier we have a big ranch like the Wheeler Ranch.
I mean it's probably a 40-page lease.
And you have to work with the landowner and middle owner to find out where you can drill these wells and we've finally -- we're able to get our locations in place.
And the top wells that we've hit – out at the Wheeler Ranch really the top wells.
We expected to have this 400 000 barrel recoverable per well.
So as we have said during this meeting we've finally progressed to the point we drilled enough wells in all of these areas.
We're pretty comfortable with what we think the outcome will be and that's why we're focused between here and year end on drilling wells really on the Wheeler area.
So Mark with that.
Yes.
As far as the geology goes there is some variation in the geology across the play as you would expect.
We don't see any extreme changes from the North to the South.
The rock quality gets a little bit better for us in McMullen county acreage and that's part of the reason we believe the performance is better.
Depth is probably the biggest factor.
We're at 8 000 feet at the NWR in Atascosa and we're down at 10 500 depth on our Swenson acreage.
And that just provides a lot more energy to drive the oil out of these tight rocks.
So that's probably one of the biggest things.
But as far as complexity it's pretty similar.
There's some minor faulting in some of the areas we have to contend with or watch for but nothing extreme and we think they're going to be pretty similar.
[technical difficulty] Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> A couple of questions.
On the frac services you talked about your frac you have a dedicated crew but you may be working through most of your backlog by the fourth quarter.
Is that crew somewhat fundable in the sense that you can maybe use that rig both in the Haynesville and the Eagle Ford as we look to you adding that second rig and potentially a third rig or what would the use for that for those time slots to the extent that you work to your backlog sooner than expected? The contract is pretty flexible after mid-year and that we can renegotiate portions of it and they could look for other work if we have some openings in our schedule without really costing us any penalty.
And so that's one option would just to release the crew part of the time later in the year if we don't need it and have the vendor go look for other work.
They have also talked about maybe taking it down south to the Eagle Ford like 2 weeks at a time or 3 weeks at a time to catch some of our work down there but we haven't committed to that at this time.
Now remember Ron Schlumberger is a dedicated crew and we have a different crew on Eagle Ford right now.
L.L.C.</strong> Right.
And I assume for you to add the second rig you're already in discussions to add incremental services in the Eagle Ford or can your provider there also -- if you could handle any increase from Eagle from 1 to 2 rigs? Well we've signed an agreement.
We're on a one rig program.
We'd have a frac group for any wells in the Eagle Ford that we would drill basically on a one-rig program and then if we move a rig up which we plan to do in June or early July.
Then if we wanted to under the same frac crew commitment we could add an attachment to that and they would frac any additional wells we'd be drilling with the second rig.
We internally don't think we'll have a frac-ing crew issue right now.
Other than the Haynesville Bossier or in Eagle Ford.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And just to clarify the leasing you've done year-to-date the $13 million it looks like that's been mostly in the Haynesville so far is that correct? That's correct Ron.
$3 million of that is cap off interest which of course just goes in all of the leases in general.
It's more of accounting.
The balance of that the $9 million or so is leases that we did early in the year mostly.
It's Haynesville Bossier acreage.
A lot of it's kind of a Renard Toledo Bend South area.
It's a couple of thousand net Haynesville like a thousand net Bossier.
That's where we ended up.
L.L.C.</strong> And so that would leave about $30 million for incremental leasing over the remainder of the year and it sounds like that's what you plan on targeting in Eagle Ford.
And if so you you're at 18 000 acres now.
I know you have spoken in the past of not necessarily being able to increase that much.
What kind of magnitude do you think you can increase your acreage position by? Are we talking about 40% or 50% or 70% rather? And again it's not -- the $30 million or so that's remaining in that budget I mean we paid about $4 300 per acre for the acres we own today in Eagle Ford.
For course it may go anywhere from $6 000 to $10 000 to $14 000 to $15 000 depending upon if it's out right to leases or JV partners.
But I think our goal would be to add anywhere from 5 000 to 10 000 net acres if we could.
Now we may or may not spend those dollars doing that.
It may be less than that.
We're not putting $1.00 per acre on that.
We're just saying if we could increase it by 5 000 to 10 000 acres that would probably be a good goal.
And we don't really see any Tier 1 acreage in the Haynesville Bossier coming open.
We think most of that or all of that will be HPP[ph] about the middle of this year which we're almost there.
Now there's Tier 2 acreage and Tier 3 acreage whatever.
That will be opened in the Haynesville Bossier but I don't think the real growth in any company right now is going to be adding a large acreage position in the Haynesville Bossier.
That's probably behind us.
So the question is can you come in and pick up some small acreage blocks in the Eagle Ford.
And we've been in South Texas 20 years and been really active 10 years.
We've got good reputation.
We spend our own money drilling wells.
So I think we will be afforded the opportunity to pick up that acreage.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And then Jay you mentioned earlier I mean once you'd spend less on leasing you don't have to carry over.
That you've generate $400 million to $500 million of operating cash flow that that's would be pretty similar to what your CapEx would be and that you have mentioned kind of a 2- to 3-rig program in the Haynesville.
Just given the way you're ramping production over the course of this year and if you go down just a couple of rigs in the Haynesville is that sufficient to be able to offset gas declines or would we start to see some gas declines which would then be from a revenue standpoint made up for the growing Eagle Ford oil? Well I think what we'll do Ron looking at the next year we're not tied to having a production from the Haynesville after being certain of growth path.
It's going to be -- we'll look at the resources if we can -- should be able to afford a 4- to 5-rig program.
We'll look at the economics of those wells.
And whether you grow gas production by 5% or don't but if you grow sales by 20% maybe we're going to look at what can you grow revenues by and allocate our resources that way.
And so I mean we're not at all focused on trying to maintain a certain production level on a particular region.
We developed Eagle Ford and the whole area to give us alternatives and higher return projects and in the end we'll allocate our capital.
Next year where is the highest return projects in our portfolio? And if oil and gas prices are in the same relationship it might not go to the Eagle Ford.
So it's all -- that's the decisions that we'll have all those ability to make those decisions in November so it doesn't make a lot of sense to speculate on what we'll do now because it's just too early.
But I think that's at Slide 25.
I mean what Slide 25 tells you is that from '08 through 2011 4 years.
I mean where will we be hopefully at January of 2012.
We will have completely proven up what we think is the good and bad part of the Bossier and the Haynesville.
Will it be completely comfortable with the Eagle Ford.
We'll have HPP our acreage and Essex North Louisiana.
We should have phenomenal production growth.
I mean we already are at a new record high on shore production level today and we have a lot of wells that we own 100% that there are Tier 1 wells that will be frac-ed by the Schlumberger crew.
They're doing a great job with that.
I think we're just at the tip of the iceberg with what we're doing at the McMullen County in the Wheeler.
And again if we drill a well we own 100% of it.
We hadn't watered ourselves down to own 1/3 or 1/2 or 1/4 whatever.
So these will all be big impact wells.
We have about the same amount of shares today as we had in '08.
So everything we do it's amplified to the better.
And even if you all look at our percent of natural gas we're 96% natural gas 4% oil.
By year end maybe we're 8% to 10% oil and by year-end 2012 maybe we're almost 20% oil.
I mean we're focused on that and I think we're doing it the right way.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And that was one of my last questions.
If you look at that gas production mix I think in the past you had talked next year being able to kind of on an average basis be plus or minus 10% oil.
But as we look ahead to the remaining quarters of this year just given the completion profile in the Haynesville it seems like if you might exit -- you said 8% to 10% liquids but the average will still be pretty similar in the first quarter because most of your Haynesville additions are going to dwarf your Eagle Ford until the latter part of the year or is that incorrect? No it's -- I mean the good and bad about our production profile is we had so many Tier 1 wells that carried over from 2010 to 2011.
You already see this in the Haynesville Bossier.
You already see this big production growth.
I mean even though we are -- for our side as a company we're growing our oil/condensate liquids portion pretty material for us.
But it is it's kind of dwarfed with the type of production we have for the Bossier and the Haynesville.
Gas is coming online even though we are a low cost producer in that area.
But I think they'll more or less normalize itself in the fourth quarter.
And then you're going to see what our production really looks like and what our big exit rate will be and then is when we start adding more and more rigs to the Eagle Ford McMullen County hopefully.
I mean you'll see a greater percent of our production be the oil/condensate which we feel pretty comfortable about that.
L.L.C.</strong> And then I don't know if it was you Jay or Mark that mentioned talking about EUR.
I know you talked target 400 000 barrels with some of your early wells may not have gotten there or nor would they really have been expected but if you look at your Wheeler Ranch in McMullen County and as you move deeper and with the early results given the flatter decline rates I mean is that still a pretty good target in your minds in terms of the average EURs? Yes Ron I think 400 000 is still a good target.
I don't know.
I guess our goal would be more than that but as far as what we believe we feel comfortable with that projection at this time on the McMullen County acreage.
Yes.
L.L.C.</strong> And can you describe what's going on from a well restriction standpoint? There aren't as many people restricting liquids oils -- I don't think in -- how is that lower IP rate with a shallower decline kind of play into the whole EUR picture? We firmly believe in the Haynesville that the restricted rate program has been a big improvement to the performance and I guess until we are proven or proven otherwise to ourselves we think the same concept should apply to the Eagle Ford.
It's a shale.
It's frac-ed very similarly.
It produces -- although it's oil instead of gas it still produces very similar.
We believe the restricted rig program is the way to go.
We're holding our wells back to a 14 to 16 64 choke and monitoring the production decline and we said we're very pleased with our decline rates at this point.
And your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit from BMO Capital Markets.
You spoke about adding about 5 000 to 10 000 net acres in South Texas in the Eagle Ford.
That is a stated goal.
What's your price sensitivity? That is what's the price per acre where the economics don't work by your estimates? We couldn't give you a specific number on that.
I mean I think you have to look is it closer to the dry gas windows? Is it closer to the shallow oil window? Is it right in the middle of condensate window? Are you closer to Mexico? Are you closer to Gonzales County? I mean this thing is what 200 miles long and 50 miles wide and we've got -- we have an appetite to acquire more acreage within this "condensate window " that our G&amp;G[ph]  group feels comfortable with.
And we've just -- we stuck out a budget there because as a stockholder you need to know what our budget is.
And our goal -- we might not add one acre.
But our goal is to increase our footprint there.
Okay.
And then based on your answer Jay am I to assume that you won't limit your search to McMullen County? That's correct.
Okay.
And then you spoke about trading Karnes acreage for McMullen County acreage.
How much acreage are we looking at here? Is it just a couple of thousand acres? In the terms of that trade would it be one for one? Yes about 2 200 acres if I recall correctly and it's just an acre for acre trade.
Okay.
Great.
And just a point of clarification or confirmation on my part.
Will the remaining wells drilled to the Eagle Ford shale this year be located in McMullen County? We may deviate one or 2 wells.
But no I'd say 90-plus percent of them.
Yes.
I think we have one well scheduled at this time for Atascosa and everything else is in McMullen.
Correct.
Okay.
And any estimates on the number of locations on your current McMullen County acreage and specifically locations on the Wheeler Ranch acreage? We've just said 80-acre well spacing is what we're with right now.
And again I think in McMullen 13 000 14 000 net acres is our footprint.
And your next question comes from the line of Rehan Rashid from FBR.
Roland on the LOE per unit.
As we kind of ramp up Haynesville what is a good kind of a number to think about as we exit the year on a corporate level? Well I think at an overall corporate level where we hit the $0.90 this quarter it could improve a little bit by the fourth quarter yes but probably down to the mid-80s maybe I'd still say we're not going be maybe $0.85 $0.84 is kind of the way.
A lot depends on how South Texas and other factors kind of come into play because we'll have increased costs from the area at a higher rate.
But then as the Haynesville is coming out with so much production it's kind of overwhelming and most of our new costs from the Haynesville's only going to be mostly in transportation costs.
Not going to have a lot of traditional field cost or severance taxes to go along with that production.
And haven't tested the VUDA[ph] yet but any plans to? Not at this time.
And your next question comes from the line of Jack Aydin from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Most of my questions were answered but I got a couple of one.
You got some other operation like in San Juan and mid-continent.
Are those assets for keep or...
They will all be divestiture candidates but they're natural gas and we don't think the market's right to sell those right now.
But they're in other categories because they're not a major part of Comstock's assets.
Okay.
The second question what you think your inventory by year end? You think you will have some inventory wells by year-end 2010 or you're going to be caught up completely? Virtually be caught up completely and then lever operationally you couldn't have get to -- there might be a well or 2 but I think as we'll be actually trying to find some work with our completion crews maybe towards the end of the year.
So we'll definitely -- they'll have to be able to complete anything that's available.
The final question you mentioned that based on current pricing it looks directionally you are of the mindset that your CapEx is going to be down versus this year.
I think Jack we won't have the $115 million kind of at a period cost so hopefully that part is out of the equation.
And then we get down to a range that yes we'd like to see it.
The normal range for us would be for even this year it would be $115 million less and so next year should be close to that level and hopefully we'll have some -- look and try to achieve some savings in the completion area especially in the different plays and try to drive a CapEx budget that comes close to the cash flow we'll generate next year.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Pikul from Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Just want to clarify one point.
You've addressed a lot of my questions but if I look at the location of your Swenson well it's kind of in the broadly speaking the liquids window but the oil yield still seems very high.
Does that make you rethink at all where the play becomes more or less oily or are we thinking about that right in terms of north south? Yes.
This is just a very general math and things don't break from oil to condensate to dry gas.
It really grades as you go down so I think in the true definition of condensate that area is probably much much narrower.
But we kind of correlate high yield oil with condensate in terms of just talking points and how we view things.
And so it covers a much broader area if that answers your question.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
It does.
And your next question comes from the line of Patrick Rigamer from Iberia Capital Partners.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just wanted to follow up on some comments earlier.
You talk about $400 million to $500 million in operating cash flow next year and as I look out into 2012 natural gas drip kind of getting above 5 call it 5 1/4 range.
I know you guys get asked this a lot but do we start to think about layering in some hedges here or is there a price at which that becomes attractive? Well on our budget one I'll answer that.
I mean what I've said is you take our exit rate which should be up again 30% to 36% versus this year.
And then you take whatever commodity price tag you have and maybe it's a $100 oil and $550 gas.
I don't know.
That's where I come up with this kind of imaginary $400 million $500 million.
It is whatever it is based on commodity price in our production rate.
So that is what I've said Roland said we're trying to keep our CapEx budget within that number.
And then as far as hedges I'll let Roland answer that.
I think as the Eagle Ford program becomes more predictable and dependable.
I think yes we would with oil at very high levels I could see us wanting to hedge that with some of the high oil prices.
Again gas if gas was at attractive levels we might consider hedging now that Haynesville program has become so predictable and we would not hedge anything if we consider weak or low prices.
Instead we would divert our capital to the areas we can have higher returns.
Yes.
We said like at double meeting[ph]  And other meetings that if we've got a 4 5 rig program in the Haynesville Bossier whatever it's predictable program.
It's an announced program and we know we've kind of contract the rigs to drill those wells in any given year.
Then you would do that based upon a certain gas price because that's a gas play.
So we would be very much inclined to hedge a lot of that to protect that program.
Are you willing to say what price that would be? No.
We wouldn't lock in low prices in order to look to hedging to be the answer to prices I think it can be used as a tool to protect commitments you make on the drilling and completion side.
But again the strength of our company is being flexible in adapting to the environment versus forcing trying to force the environment to adapt our plans.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I would like to turn it back to Mr.
Allison for closing remarks.
Marissa thank you.
I know we've had a long conference call so now we're in like 20 or 30 minutes and for most of you that stayed from beginning to end we're very thankful.
Again we tried to put in a good day's work to create great value on a per-share basis.
I think Mark's a great addition to the team.
He has been here 15 years.
He has now stepped up to VP of operations.
I expect great things from him.
I think you did a good job today.
So anyhow thank you for your support.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Comstock Resources Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Maria and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the presentation over to Mr.
Jay Allison.
Please proceed.
Thank you Maria.
Sorry for the 10-minute delay.
We were just literally connected to the conference call so anyhow I'm sorry for that.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources Second Quarter 2011 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view the slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled Second Quarter 2011 Results.
I'm Jay Allison President of Comstock.
And with me this morning is Roland Burns our CFO ; and Mark Williams our VP of Operations.
During this call we will review our 2011 second quarter financial and operating results as well as updated results of our 2011 drilling program.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentations and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
The 2011 second quarter highlights.
Please refer to Page 3 of the presentation where we summarized the second quarter results.
Our financial results are improving despite the continuation of low natural gas prices.
We reported revenues of $112 million generated EBITDAX of $87 million and had operating cash flow of $77 million or $1.62 per share.
The gain we recognized from selling some of our Stone shares allowed us to make a profit in this quarter.
We reported net income of $3.9 million or $0.08 per share.
Our production increased 19% this quarter over the first quarter of 2011 and 20% over the second quarter of last year.
We expect production to continue to grow in the third and fourth quarters.
We are very pleased with the results of our 2011 drilling program in the first half of the year.
We drilled 39 successful wells including 31 Haynesville Shale wells and 6 Eagle Ford Shale wells in the first half of the year.
Our Eagle Ford program is progressing very well.
With 2 rigs now drilling in South Texas and having the use of our dedicated completion crew we expect to have a significantly higher level of activity to talk about on next quarter's call.
Our balance sheet continues to be very very strong.
We completed a $300 million senior notes offering in the first quarter which extended the maturities of our debt and added to our liquidity.
I will now turn it over to Roland Burns to review the financial results for this quarter in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 4 we're breaking out our oil and gas production by quarter and by operating region.
And as you can see from the chart we had very strong production quarter in the second quarter this year.
On the chart production from our Haynesville Shale properties is shown in blue and you can see that's where most of the growth is coming from.
In the second quarter of this year our production averaged 263 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day which was a 19% increase over the first quarter of this year and a 20% higher than production in the second quarter of last year.
Production this quarter set a second consecutive new record high for our onshore operations and we've now completely overcome the shortage of completion services which impacted our Haynesville operations in the third and fourth quarter of last year and we're now catching up on completing the wells we drilled last year.
Our Haynesville production increased 176 million per day as compared to 133 million per day in the prior quarter.
Production from our other wells in the East Texas/North Louisiana region mainly our Cotton Valley wells remained steady at about 41 million a day in the quarter and we averaged 40 million a day in our South Texas region and then 6 million a day in our other regions.
We have completed 45 wells or 28.2 wells net to our interest in either our Haynesville or Eagle Ford shale programs in the first half of this year.
And you can see that the way production is trending this year that we expect to come in at the top of our guidance which could put us at close to 33% growth over 2010's production and 37% growth if you look at 2010's production and exclude the properties that we sold in December of last year.
Oil prices continue to be very strong in the second quarter which we cover on Slide 5 in the presentation.
Our realized average oil price increased 50% in the second quarter of 2011 to $101.02 per barrel as compared to $67.37 per barrel in the second quarter of 2010.
For the first half of this year our average oil price was $95.89 43% higher than our average oil price of $67.24 for the same period in 2010.
Our realized oil price in the second quarter and for the first 6 months of this year has averaged between 98% and 99% of the average of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price so far this year.
Natural gas prices improved slightly in the quarter as we show on Slide 6.
Our average gas price increased 2% in the second quarter to $4.19 per Mcf as compared to $4.09 in the second quarter of 2010.
The first 6 months of this year our average gas price decreased 13% to $4.08 as compared to $4.68 for the same period in 2010.
Our realized gas price is averaging at 97% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price so far this year.
On Slide 7 we cover our oil and gas sales.
Driven by the 20% increase in production and slightly improved natural gas prices our sales increased by 24% to $112 million in the second quarter.
For the first 6 months of this year our sales increased 2% to $200 million as compared to $197 million for the same period in 2010 as weaker natural gas prices for that period offset much of the production gains we had.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization and expiration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX in the second quarter increased about 38% to $87 million as shown on Slide 8.
For the 6 months ended June 30 2011 EBITDAX increased 6% to $152 million.
Slide 9 covers our operating cash flow.
Stronger revenues and lower costs caused our operating cash flow for the quarter to increase by 38% to $77 million as compared to the $56 million we had in the second quarter of last year.
For the first half of this year operating cash flow was $133 million 4% higher than cash flow of $128 million for the same period in 2010.
On Slide 10 we outline our earnings.
We reported net income of $3.9 million or $0.08 per share as compared to a loss of $1.6 million or $0.04 per share in 2010 second quarter.
For the first half of this year we reported net income of $6.4 million or $0.13 per share as compared to net income for the first half of last year of $5.7 million or $0.12 per share.
The second quarter results include a gain of $8.5 million or $5.5 million after-tax or $0.12 per share related to the sale of our marketable securities and that 6 months financial results include several unusual items: First of all a charge of $1.1 million or $0.7 million after-tax or $0.02 per share related to the early redemption of our 2012 senior notes which we redeemed in March of this year.
We also had an impairment of $9.5 million or $6.1 million after-tax or $0.13 per share to write-off leases that we expect to expire in 2011 without drilling activity and that charge is also taken in the first quarter.
And then if you look for the 6-month period we had a significant gain for our continuing sales of marketable securities during the first half of 2011 of $29.7 million or $19.3 million after-tax and that equates to $0.42 per share.
On Slide 11 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter.
On this chart we break lifting cost out into 3 components: Production taxes transportation and then other field level operating costs.
Our total lifting costs improved significantly to $0.85 per Mcfe in the second quarter as compared to $1.13 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2010 and then even the value sent [ph] rate that we had in the first quarter of this year.
Production taxes in the quarter were $0.06 per Mcfe and our transportation charges averaged $0.28 per Mcfe in the second quarter.
Field operating costs averaged $0.51 this quarter as compared to $0.71 in the second quarter of last year and $0.58 in the first quarter of this year.
Higher production in the Haynesville combined with the absence of the high cost properties that we sold last year in the fourth quarter are allowing us to achieve the lower lifting rates this year.
On Slide 12 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter and this excludes stock-based compensation.
Our G&amp;A our general administrative costs decreased to $0.22 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to $0.27 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2010 and the $0.26 that we have in the first quarter of 2011.
This improvement is also due to the higher production level combined with a lower overall cash G&amp;A in the quarter.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 13.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the second quarter averaged $3.12 per Mcfe and increased from our $2.87 rate in the second quarter in 2010 and the $3.03 rate in the first quarter of this year.
Our DD&amp;A rate this quarter increased $0.09 from the $3.03 we averaged in the first quarter of this year primarily due to the cost of completing the carry over wells from last year and so we basically added more costs into our amortization pool with the completion when those reserves are really counted last year.
On Slide 14 we detail our capital expenditures.
So far this year we spent $349 million in the first 6 months as compared to the $244 million that we spent in the first 6 months of 2010.
We spent $263 million in our East Texas/North Louisiana region and $84 million in our South Texas region.
$36 million of the $349 million that we spent so far in 2011 was spent to acquire additional leasehold in either the Eagle Ford or Haynesville Shale.
Slide 15 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the second quarter.
On June 30 we had $4 million in cash $62 million in marketable securities on hand which represent a 2.1 million shares that we hold in Stone Energy.
We had a total of $692 million of total debt which is comprised of $300 million of our new 7.75% senior notes and $297 million of our 8.375% senior notes and the $95 million outstanding number of bank credit facility.
Taking into account our cash on the balance sheet and marketable securities and the unused $405 million bank credit line we have about $471 million in liquidity available to us.
Our book equity at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion which makes our net debt about 39% of our total capitalization.
I'll now turn it back over to Jay.
Thank you Roland.
On Slide 16 we update our holdings in the Haynesville Shale play in north Louisiana and East Texas our acreage is highlighted in blue.
We currently have 90 000 gross acres and 79 000 net acres that we believe are prospective for Haynesville Shale development 59 000 acres are in North Louisiana which is the better part of the play in our opinion.
Given expected well spacing of 80 acres and an expected per well recovery of 6 Bcfe per well our acreage could have 4.4 Tcfe of resource potential.
Slide 17 shows the acreage that we think also has potential for the development of the upper Haynesville Shale our middle Bossier Shale.
Our acreage is highlighted in blue.
We currently have 60 000 gross acres and 51 000 net acres that we believe are prospective given similar expected well spacing of 80 acres and an expected per well recovery of 5 Bcfe per well our acreage could have 2.4 Tcfe of resource potential.
I'll now have a Mark Williams our Head of Operations give us an update of our drilling program this year.
Mark? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 18 we recap our activity in the East Texas/North Louisiana region for this year.
Our activity in this region is entirely focused on developing our Haynesville and Bossier Shale properties.
We drilled 31 gross wells or 14.8 net wells in this region from 6 different fields in the first 6 months of this year all of which were Bossier or Haynesville Shale wells.
All of these wells were successful.
During the first half of 2011 we completed 41 or 24.2 net of our Haynesville or Bossier Shale wells which were put on production at an average per well initial production rate of 10 million cubic feet equivalent per day under our restricted rate choke program.
Since we initiated our Haynesville shale program in 2008 we have now drilled a total of 149 gross wells or 92.5 net wells.
On Slide 19 we provide an update of our backlog of uncompleted Haynesville and Bossier Shale wells.
The upper pie chart on the left illustrates our situation at the end of 2010 where 35 our 72 2010 wells had not yet been completed.
The lower pie chart reflects the net well count and shows the 23.4 of our 45 net wells had not been completed at the end of 2010.
The frac crew shortage in the second half of 2010 that created the backlog has been resolved by contracting a dedicated crew which started working for us late in the first quarter.
As shown in the bar graphs to the right at the end of the second quarter the backlog had been reduced from 35 gross wells to 16 gross wells and 23.4 net wells to 7.7 net wells.
Excluded from this backlog count are 9 wells 6.2 net that were in the process of being completed on June 30.
For our operated wells we are essentially caught up at this time and we expect that our non-operated wells to be caught up by the end of the third quarter.
Slide 20 shows the first 2 units in Logansport field in DeSoto Parish in Louisiana where we are fully developing the Haynesville on 80-acre spacing.
Section 22 shown on the left is a 640 acre unit which was drilled in late 2010 and earlier this year and the completion is underway on all 8 wells.
All the wells have been fracture stimulated and are currently being produced to recover the frac fluid and establish a stabilized production rate.
As you can see we utilized 3 drilling pads to drill and complete the 8 wells which increases our drilling and completion efficiency and reduces our overall well cost.
This process also allows deeper fracs to be utilized which is a stimulation method where all of the wells in the pad are frac-ed with 1 frac fleet by alternating between the wells in a stage by stage procedure.
We believe this method will increase the effectiveness of the stimulations as compared to frac-ing the wells one at a time.
By completing all the wells before producing any of them we think the ultimate recovery of the section will be maximized.
The schematic on the right side of Slide 20 shows our sections 19 and 20 also in Logansport field which are combined to form an 800-acre unit.
Here we are in the process of drilling 9 wells to develop the unit as there is already one existing Haynesville producer in this unit.
We will begin completion operation of this unit in December and expect first production in January of 2012.
Our South Texas region is displayed on Slide 21.
All of our South Texas activity in 2011 has been focused on our Eagle Ford program.
We drilled 6 Eagle Ford shale wells and 6 net in the first 6 months of 2011.
So far this year we have completed 4 wells 4 net including a well drilled in 2010 and the 4 wells had an average per well initial production rate of 870 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On Slide 22 we outlined our Eagle Ford shale play in South Texas.
We have increased our holdings in the Eagle Ford to 25 000 gross acres and 21 000 net acres in the second quarter as well as completed an acreage swap for most of our Karnes County acreage for contiguous acreage in McMullen County.
We have 6 producing wells on our acreage including our most recent completion the Hill #1H in McMullen County.
The Hill #1H was drilled to a vertical depth of 11 264 feet with a 4 642-foot lateral.
We test this well at an initial rate of 865 barrels of oil per day and 1.4 million cubic feet of natural gas per day or 1 095 Boe per day.
This well's initial production rate was based on flowing the well at the restricted rate on an 1864 choke.
In the second quarter we also drilled the Cutter Creek #1H Forest Wheeler #1H and the Rancho Tres Hijos "A" #1H wells all in McMullen County.
In order to improve efficiency and reduce costs we have arranged of our dedicated Haynesville frac crew also complete our Eagle Ford wells.
They are currently completing the Cutter Creek #1H well in McMullen County and we'll stay in South Texas to complete another 3 of our wells before returning to the Haynesville in North Louisiana.
We are currently running 2 rigs in the Eagle Ford and have 3 rigs drilling in the Haynesville.
Our dedicated crew can more than keep up with our 5 rigs and we'll move between the 2 plays as [ph] our direction for the rest of this year and next year.
We expect to be able to acquire an additional 4 000 to 5 000 net acres in this area in the third quarter.
I will now turn it back over to Jay.
Mark thank you.
And in summary I would refer you to Slide 23.
We're very pleased with how this year's progressing despite continuing low natural gas prices.
Our production growth has been very strong.
We expect production to increase by 26% to 33% over last year with completion of the backlog of wells drilled in 2010.
Our low cost structure continues to improve with the higher production levels and drilling and completion efficiencies that we are now seeing.
Our Eagle Ford shale program in South Texas is progressing as Mark stated earlier.
We now have 2 rigs drilling in our Eagle Ford shale acreage and we've been successful in adding to our holdings at a reasonable cost per acre.
During this period of weak natural gas prices the Eagle Ford program gives us a high return area to grow our oil condensate and natural gas liquids production.
We continue to manage our long-term commitments to allow us access to the services we need for our drilling program while at the same time giving us flexibility to respond to stronger or weaker prices.
We have 5 rigs currently and plan to have the flexibility to run anywhere from 4 to 6 rigs in 2012.
I will have the ability to run any of our rigs in either the Eagle Ford or Haynesville based on where we can generate the higher returns.
We continue to guard our strong balance sheet.
We have $405 million available on our bank credit facility and $62 million in marketable securities to supplement the cash flow we will generate.
For the rest of the call we will take questions only from the research analysts who follow the stocks.
I'll turn it back over to Maria.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Can you talk about now that the 8 well pads on kind of where your current production is? Yes.
This is Mark.
Our July production averaged between 255 between 265 million and 270 million equivalent per day.
And those wells didn't come on until mid to late July so really haven't had much impact on it and don't have a real good update on today's production to give you.
Okay.
And you talked about the $8 million well costs.
Are you all mostly pad drilling in the Haynesville? Yes.
Most of our drilling now is pad drilling.
We're still drilling some to hold some of our minor leases around and just to test some of our southern areas.
But all of our future development is going to be pad drilling.
Okay.
And then 2 on the Eagle Ford real quick.
One what are you all seeing on the current cost to drill and complete and where are you looking to add acreage? Is it that central McMullen area? As far as the cost we're between -- our development wells after some of the science we did earlier we're between $8 million and $8.5 million.
We expect to be able to drive that down some when we get into the pad drilling that we'll be doing later this year and next year in Eagle Ford so we do expect it to be down a little below $8 million.
As far as the acreage we like our core area in McMullen County and on the trend East and west we're really looking at the whole play and see what we can pick up the best acreage.
Brian on Slide 22 you can see kind of the orange area the condensate area that we think has 80% 85% liquids.
We're really sticking along that area.
And then also in answer to one of your questions we put in Slide 20 which shows you the laterals like the Logansport at Section 19 and 20 that 800 acres and that's pad drilling.
So yes in the future other than drilling a well to hold a lease we expect to develop for the Haynesville-Bossier with pad drilling and I think the same thing would really apply for the Eagle Ford in the future.
So you should see some cost reductions coming down there like Mark had mentioned.
And we wouldn't put a statement out that we think can get another 4 000 or 5 000 acres this quarter unless we really think we can do that.
So we'd be surprised if you couldn't pick up some additional quality acreage and end up with the 25 000 plus net acres in Eagle Ford.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question here on the Haynesville you guys talked about all of your drilling going forward is going to be pad drilling.
I guess that probably implies that I'm guessing that pretty much everything in the Haynesville is held by production at this point.
If not going to be held by the end of the year.
Is that a fair statement? Yes most of our acreage is held by production Leo.
We have some new releases that we acquired in 2010 and at the beginning of this year that obviously are primary term but they have a lot of term left on them.
We have one lease in our fleet [ph] in south area that is still not all held by production but it's very forgiving as far as the term is like 2 wells a year to hold it.
So 90% of our acreage is held and we're going to move to the development mode.
LLC</strong> And I guess a question on your CapEx you guys talked about spending I guess $349 million in the first half.
I think your official budget is $610 million you talked about adding more acreage here in the third quarter.
I mean it looks like your lease budget is probably going to be over what you guys had allocated.
I guess does that imply some upside your overall CapEx budget here? Leo this is Roland.
Yes on the CapEx budget I think our highest spending level was probably the second quarter because we were using a lot more services than we're going to use in the second half of the year.
And all of our completion services will now be held just by of the 1 dedicated crew.
And then in the first half of the year we were using that plus other companies too especially in the separate crew in the Eagle Ford.
So we'll see a lower spending level for drilling and complete costs hopefully we'll be seeing of course lower costs in the remaining Haynesville wells that we're drilling.
So I think you'll see that drilling part we still think that's going to roughly be what we've budgeted.
On the leasehold acquisitions that's a number that's very hard to budget because we're very opportunistic and just look for good opportunities.
So that possibly could be little higher than what's budgeted but I think some of the new releases that we're doing expect to do -- a lot of the acquisition costs is going to be paid in the future drilling carries.
So it might not really impact our budget a lot this year.
So we'll see that may be impact the budget a little bit next year as we'll pay for that leasehold cost by paying their share of drilling because most of our opportunities adjacent acreage in the Eagle Ford are coming with smaller operators who would like to have us operate and run the drilling programs for them and instead of getting cash for their leasehold upfront they prefer to get a large portion of it and in future drilling carry just for tax reasons and other reasons they have.
LLC</strong> I guess the last question for you guys can you guys just talk about infrastructure in the Eagle Ford in general? How are you guys getting your oil barrels to market? Are those going basically on on pipeline up for cushioning [ph] and just kind of any comments on gas take away and processing and how you see that unfolding here? This is Roland.
I'll make a comment then let Mark add to it.
On the marketing side actually we've seen the ability to get our oil trucks from the wells side to the various ways it makes its way down the Corpus Christi or other areas where they can sell the oil.
But we've actually seen the capacity really improve in the area and so most recently we've had -- that's been actually much better that it was several months ago and they were working with 2 major oil purchasers now to put in a long-term arrangement for our Eagle Ford oil.
And both of those are looking at very large increases in capacity in the McMullan area.
And someone as early as even as December.
We see that our marketing is pretty confident.
They've been able to keep up with the drilling activity and completion activity in the Eagle Ford.
So we haven't really suffered any real significant issues with take away.
On the gas side we just haven't produced very much gas and most of our -- all of our wells so far have been oil wells and with most of the production crude oil there at the well heads.
We have our gas processing arrangements we haven't even delivered enough gas to ease of those yet.
But we may drill a well or 2 as we get to the southern end of the Eagle Ford.
That is more gas oriented and we'll see then have [ph] more need on the gas side.
The issues have been coming when you drill Eagle Ford wells for gas window.
We've stayed away from that.
Yes.
The other processing need is a more of the gas window think.
We are kind of north of that we think in our McMullen acreage for the most part.
The other thing you had mentioned Leo if you look at 2012 and we've said this on our one-on-one meetings and meetings with analysts is that we are going to see what are our exit rate is for our production and again we should have a 33% to maybe 37% production increase this year over last year.
We're going to see where we end up and what percent of that is liquids.
And then as Mark said 90% plus of our acreage in the Bossier-Haynesville is HBP.
We will have drilling commitments in Eagle Ford.
We've already had 2 rigs committed.
We probably have a third rig committed by late fourth quarter.
But we're going to see where we have the greatest return for the dollars that we spend.
If it's to have most of the rigs in the Eagle Ford then that's where they'll go.
We need to have 1 or 2 or 3 in the Haynesville we can do that.
But our goal is to say within our operating cash flow for 2012.
Except for lease purchases that we would acquire we'd use our balance sheet to do that.
But that is our goal and I think we can make that goal unlike the government in their debt issue.
As far as our bank line we'll have a greater percent of PDP of properties also.
So we would expect probably an increase in our bank facility too the next predetermination.
So from the financial side and production side and a percent of ore [ph] liquids I think all of those are extremely positive for us.
I think the only negative would be -- it would've been nice for you to see another 3 or 4 completed Eagle Ford wells this quarter.
That didn't happen.
You can see the one well that we did complete we're very pleased with and Mark can comment on it.
Again it's our best Eagle Ford well yet based upon when we choked it back and I think the wells that were drilling are all in that same vicinity in McMullan and that's why we put a second rig there and that's why we'll probably put a third rig there if oil prices continue to stay high.
But it is a very manageable program now that should get better and better and better based upon a quarterly basis.
And again in Slide 20 you'll see a little delay in the additional gas production because we literally have 10 wells that have come online at the next same time that said Mark will be completed at the end of December.
So you'll see a good production in 2012.
I think that's a good carryover from '11 to '12.
Your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
I had a couple of questions.
In the Eagle Ford the Hill well the one you completed during the quarter the rate on it was real solid and I know it's also that it was considerably shorter lateral length than the Swenson well which not only a higher rate but again was a much longer lateral.
And then also the Hill looks like it's the southernmost well you've drilled in McMullan and can you just sort of talk about your understanding of the line between the condensate and gas window in McMullan now given that well.
Yes Noel.
We're going to update that slide because all of our acreage except possibly our most southern acreage is oil acreage.
And when you define oil as less than a 2 000 gas oil ratio all of our acreage based on our cash inflow data is oil.
So it just goes from -- we go from about a 400 gas oil ratio on the North end to about 1 500 on the south end in the Hill well.
So I think the condensate window is really south of us.
It may be right on our southern edge but I really do believe it's going to be off our acreage.
Okay.
Great.
So the definition of where that line is it sounds like it's changed.
And can you just sort of talk about the geology of why the Hill well looks like it's performed as well as it has? Well it's a shorter lateral but we did the same number of frac stages on it that we did on the Swenson.
So our cluster spacing is a little closer.
We put the same volume basically of prop and fluids in it.
It's also a little bit deeper than the Swenson.
So it has a little bit higher reservoir pressure which give us a little bit more energy to produce.
It's a higher GOR than the Swenson which also provides that extra energy and it's a equivalent rock or maybe even slightly better so we are very pleased with the results and they match what we saw in the logs and we expect offsets to be similar.
The other thing Noel is that had Mark commented off the line.
It's kind of like at the end of '08 beginning of '09 again the Haynesville-Bossier it took us a while to get up on a learning curve to figure out where to drill the laterals how to frac them properly and I think again I know one of the analysts come back and said we're getting closer to kind of mastering this thing and it's a moving target.
But I think Mark can comment on that.
Yes Noel.
I mean we've changed our frac design somewhat.
We've gone to a much more of a thin fluid-based or a hybrid type job than from our very early jobs.
I think our people in the field  understand the reservoir better as their frac-ing it.
So they can make adjustments on the fly when they have trouble on stages.
So we're getting a higher percentage of our stages put away and we may have been 75% early we're probably 90% 95% now.
I mean you still have the occasional problem but overall everybody involved is from geologist to engineers to field people we're all getting up that learning curve as quickly as we can.
And we're seeing the benefits in terms of our well results.
And just -- can you give us a sense of where the next couple of wells you plan to do in the Eagle Ford will be within your acreage? Yes we are completing our well called the Cutter Creek which is in north central McMullen County and also the forest wheeler which is on our most southern acreage in McMullen County.
And then we're completing a second well in Atascosa called the [indiscernible] well which has been an interesting test for us.
Out of the 12 wells that we're in 9 of them are in McMullen.
And 3 are outside of McMullen.
So we focus on McMullen.
Okay.
Great.
And just moving over to the Haynesville for a minute.
Can you talk a bit about of the Bossier wells that you've done.
What their performance has been like and do you have any update on the delineating the Bossier play as opposed to the Haynesville? As far as the Bossier there's just not -- there's a lot of log data on the Bossier but other than I believe comp stock there hasn't been a lot of activity in the Bossier.
We've been more active than most companies because some of our acreage is primarily Bossier acreage.
I mean our farthest out acreage in Sabine Parish is really primarily Bossier acreage.
So we've been pretty active I think we've completed 11 wells -- I'm trying to remember now.
Yes I think we completed 9 Bossier wells this year and we drilled 10 Bossier wells this year.
Where are those coming out relative to your pre-drill expectations? They're matching that acreage in our Toledo Bend south area that's primarily Bossier acreage and those wells are matching our expectations and are very similar to Haynesville wells.
As you go north if you get too far north we'll limit [ph] the day we've seen if the Bossier is not as good.
I mean you've seen -- it kind of shows that on the map as well that you run out of the Bossier while you're still in the Haynesville.
So if you North the Bossier is not going to be as good but down on the core area it acts very similar to the Haynesville.
And just my last one.
On the completion side how are things on the materials end? Thinking about for example sand for example in the Eagle Ford and also on the Haynesville? In the Haynesville we haven't had any issues.
In the Eagle Ford we were having not difficulty but it's been you have to schedule well ahead of time to get your prop and scheduled in the Eagle Ford.
Our relationship with Schlumberger who's our dedicated frac provider has really helped us down there and we've been able to get the materials that we've needed.
Remember on Slide 16 we say 6 Bcfe per well for Haynesville and then Slide 17 it's 5 Bcfe per well for the Bossier.
That's what Mark was talking about.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bodino with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC</strong> I have a couple of follow-up questions on production and then if you'll indulge me one additional question.
On the production side given the fact that you're moving more toward pad drilling inclusion and that you're building 6 to 8 wells per pad out there in Haynesville now are we going to see more lumpiness in gas production going forward? Yes Michael this is Roland.
I think that's a possibility.
We'll have to see how we schedule the pads coming on.
But when you have 8 wells if you're trying to drill 8 wells it could take 8 months to actually get them all drilled before the completion activity is if you use one rig.
So it's really the -- answer to that question is going to be based on how many rigs are we going to dedicate to the Haynesville and to be able to more smooth out kind of pad development.
And the answer to that question -- we can't answer the question until we kind of get a better feel for gas prices.
I think if gas prices don't improve from the current spot levels I think we'll be hard-pressed to leave the 3 rigs in the Haynesville just because of the return I think those same rigs can make in our Eagle Ford program now that it is performing and it's more -- it's not oil focused.
So we'll have to balance that lumpiness against getting higher oil production returns and I think towards the end of this year our goal now is to create all the flexibility between our rigs and our frac crews and our acreage to be able to have that full flexibility go between the 2 plays that I think we're going to achieve that and then we'll look out to 2012 and say where can the drilling rigs and the capital that we have best generate the best return overall? May not be the absolute overall production on a Mcfe basis but -- if it and then allocate those rigs accordingly and to the extent that we allocate 2 or 1 rig going into the Haynesville it means we either are not doing a lot of pad development next year or take a long time to get one drilled out but we will start our 2012 with some cushion there by having this very large project come on line on our first quarter of next year on the gas side.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That helps and will model accordingly.
On the Eagle Ford it seems like with the 2 rig program it looks like in the numbers you'll end the year around 10% oil by volume.
Does that seem reasonable? Michael that's possible but it's probably because of the really large growth in gas we keep raising the bar for the oil to get there.
But I think that it's still possible and I think we'll be approaching that number.
It Really depends on how strong the gas production is.
I think the one thing that's been real positive now that we have arranged to use the dedicated crew we have much more control over the timing of the Eagle Ford completions than where they've been fairly slow in the first 6 months.
We think you'll see a lot of efficiencies and a lot of the Eagle Ford wells actually getting completed in the second 6 months of this year and dependent on how well those perform.
I think we definitely still have a shot at the 10%.
But that was the gas numbers.
It's grown so large that it's harder and harder for the well to do that.
But I think as we dedicate more resource to the Eagle Ford we'll be 10% oil before you know it in 2012.
So again a lot is going to depend on where we allocate the rigs and the capital next year and how aggressively we can drill on the gas side versus the oil side.
We just spent fortune to hedge exemplary Haynesville wells.
If we hadn't had excellent Haynesville wells then we would definitely be at the 10% and if we hadn't sold Laurel the oil property but we needed to sell Laurel and we're very fortunate to have this wonderful Haynesville-Bossier well.
So I think 10% is a good goal.
I don't if we'll hit it but we'll be close.
LLC</strong> Well speaking of hitting goals I mean previously we talked about exonerated about 289 cubic feet equivalent a day you're already knocking on that door already is that a number that you're ready to talk about moving up? Michael on the exit rate yes I think I don't see it -- it definitely is going to be at least that high.
Possibly it will be higher.
We will have a strong third quarter production growth again because of the Logansport section coming on in August here and that's going to really help the third quarter.
The fourth quarter that we won't complete a whole lot of new wells in the Haynesville probably 3 or 4 or so before we go to that really large project in December and do the 9 wells and the 10-well sections and all of those will come online in January.
So we don't expect to see the fourth quarter show as we think it could be pretty good strong quarter but it won't show the same kind of growth that we saw first to second second to third.
So I think we definitely hit the 280 a lot earlier than the end of the year but whether or not we can be way ahead of that at the end of the year we don't think so.
A lot of the production increases have come because we've just got ahead of schedule on the completion side and actually are slowing that down a little bit by moving the completion services over to the Eagle Ford now for the second half of the year versus being 100% working in the Haynesville.
As we said earlier you got the 10 wells that will be frac-ed December and coming January.
So 2012 we should have some fabulous production also.
As far as a production rate we gave you today our production is north of that as you know.
LLC</strong> Okay my last question you had 40 million a day in South Texas.
Could you give us some quantification how much of that was allocatable for the Eagle Ford? Michael this is Mark.
I believe about 8 million of it on accrual basis is Eagle Ford and the rest of it is legacy South Texas production.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to look into the Eagle Ford acreage a little bit.
I'm just sort of eyeballing sort of where your acreage was last quarter and then after you all picked up the additional 3 000 net acreage here.
It looks like the adds were sort of around the Carlson well and sort of corner of McMullen County then you also looked like you added some in Atascosa.
So I know you were going to do the acreage swamp which you all mentioned.
So I'm just assuming that that was where McMullen County got picked up and the adds were Atascosa.
And so just for reference if last quarter if memory serves I want to say McMullen you all were around 13 000 to 14 000 net acres where that number stands now in McMullen? John this is Mark.
The acreage we added is right in the 4 corners of McMullen County Atascosa Frio  and LaSalle.
It's those 2 blocks the are right next -- closer to the 4 corners.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Near the Carlson well right? Yes.
And then trade acreage is just on the East edge of the Carlson block.
All the acreage that we increased and changed with the Karnes County acreage is right there in that same area.
And as far as McMullen we're about 13 000 right now in the McMullen a little less than 6 in Atascosa a little over 2 in La Salle and just a slight amount in Karnes County.
That's where our acres breakout is right now.
Inc.</strong> And then last question I had on the Eagle Ford as it sounds pretty likely that you'll end up moving a third rig over there toward the end of the year.
Just when you sort of think about it for 2012 how do you all think about it in terms of with 3 rigs possibly next year going into 4 rigs like how many frac crews do you need dedicated per the number of rigs that you're running in the Eagle Ford? Well right now our crew is dedicated to move back and forth and if all we do is move the Haynesville rates to the Eagle Ford at the end of this year then we have the frac services to handle it.
If we add a rig instead of moving a rig then I still believe we'll be able to make it.
We have a little bit of extra space in the schedule if you will to handle it with that one crew and anything above that we have to negotiate additional services either with Schlumberger or somebody else.
So we'll just go for lowest when we decide to make that move.
And John it appears that the dedicated crew we have now can service about 6 rigs and we have 5.
So as we're using them now we actually have some time but we're releasing them because we can't fully utilize them with our 5-rig program.
So if we went to a 6 rig program we probably then fully utilized that crew and so I think that we're really set for those services anyway through next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> A couple of questions just to go back to I think Brian's initial question on the current production Mark when you talked about the 265 million or 270 million day rate was that with the inclusion of those 8 wells or are those really still in the process of cleaning up? That was July's average rate right? So it's mostly excluded those for the most part.
And slight amount of their production in that July average but there wasn't very much because most of it came on late in July and we stepped them up slowly as we get the fluid off of them.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And so really your current rate is higher than that though the lack of additional Haynesville completions over the remainder or most of this quarter is probably the peak on the gas side.
Is that the right way to look at that for this quarter? I think this is Roland.
When this unit is fully brought up to full rate which probably happens soon in August here yes that would be a peak rate we would think.
There won't be any other completions for the most part in the Haynesville that would affect the production rate.
They come online for the third quarter.
But I think that'll be enough to have a very nice third quarter average rate over the second quarter.
Right.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And when you look at just the number of completions with this dedicated crew going from Haynesville to Eagle Ford what's as you look at your completion schedule now what's the schedule? I think you said you have another you'll do 4 wells back to back before taking the completion crew back to Louisiana and/or East Texas and then bring it back to the Haynesville.
So if we look out over the next 3 4 months are you planning on having another 6 or 8 type Eagle Ford completions? How many at Haynesville? I'm just trying to think about the completion schedule by area.
Right.
Ron I think we finished the 4 wells in the Eagle Ford.
We come back to the Haynesville for I think 2 wells.
Then we go back down the Eagle Ford for another group and then we come back to the Haynesville for 2 or 3 more.
So I think we're going to have 6 to 8 wells completed to talk about before the next quarter call.
It kind of -- some of it depends on the rig schedule as well.
If we drill them per the rigs schedule that we have or they go faster or they go a little bit slower but that's kind of how we have it scheduled out right now.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And then this segue is due to production profile we just talked about on the gas side what you should see then on the liquids especially as we work through this quarter and especially into the fourth quarter you should really have pretty strong liquids growth which even though the fourth quarter you won't really have it on the gas side the margins on the oil side kind of more than offset that financially -- directionally you're 1700 or 1800 barrels a day in the second quarter is that something with your current wells online and the additional 6 to 8 that you can approach the 3 000 3 500 barrels a day by year-end? Yes.
We have a much more steady production growth projected for the oil.
It obviously because were completing the wells more steady than we're not pad drilling and the way we're doing in the Haynesville although we are doing a little bit of pad drilling down there but not to the same extent we are on the Haynesville.
So we should get much more steady growth and I think you're kind of in the ballpark.
We're looking at between 3 000 and 4 000 barrels a day exit rate is what we're looking at on the oil side.
I think you're correct Ron.
L.L.C.</strong> And then lastly on the cost structure as you also shift to a more oily mix probably a little bit sooner than expected I would assume that some of the unit cost improvement we've seen on LOE starts to flatten out or maybe even start to go up a little bit just to account for the fact that you're getting more oily a little bit sooner than at least we were expecting.
Ron that's correct.
I think what you'll see the Eagle Ford oil production will have production taxes on it.
So where that has come down to a very small number you'll see that trend the other way.
The taxes are of course higher on oil even in gas and then a lot of the gas a lot of the new gas wells we've been bringing on this year have got a 1- to 2-year exemption from severance taxes.
So that's what's driven our severance tax rate down so low.
But the oil doesn't have that benefit.
So it will -- you'll start seeing that creep back up and the overall lifting cost which is fairly fixed if you exclude the taxes and transportation of the Haynesville the only increasing kind of lifting costs there is probably ad valorem taxes and stuff because a lot of the field level costs there are a lot of field level production cost that all new Haynesville production is needing.
It's just -- we're spreading the same cost over more volumes so it's driving the rate down.
So those big improvements have driven the lifting costs rate down so much.
Obviously once the Eagle Ford shows up to be counted as a bigger player in our growth.
It will reverse that trend.
But that will be a minor offset to the profits that you have at the top line.
L.L.C.</strong> And then coming from you Jay or Roland that talked about 2012 being much more aligned in terms of cash flow versus CapEx I know this year you had $110 million $115 million of carryover completions which you won't have I guess for lack of a better term burdening your 2012 estimate.
At what gas prices are you assuming that you would kind of stay at a 2-rig Haynesville 3-rig Eagle Ford or you talked about 4 to 6 rigs.
I'm just trying to get a profile to what to expect from a Haynesville versus Eagle Ford activity and the total capital plans.
Ron this is Roland.
I think as we look to the capital plans I think what -- as we're increasing our Eagle Ford position we kind of see having a minimum of 2 rigs there and most likely 3.
So on the other side in the Haynesville program it's more dependent on what gas price is going to be.
And I think to go to 6 rigs we're going to have to have gas prices in excess of probably in excess of 5.25 to have the cash flow to pay for 6 rig program.
So I think the more gas prices are over 5 the more likely we'll be running more rigs in the Haynesville.
The closer gas prices are to 450 or 425 or 400 the likelihood that we won't have very many rigs in the Haynesville and so I think that's really how we're looking at it.
L.L.C.</strong> And what are you required to have in the Haynesville in terms of lease expiries? Is it just a one rig required and then you were down to one rig there and add 4 rigs or whatever in the Eagle Ford if you could support that and then I would assume what we would start to see is the gas production start to roll over on a run rate program there? We would keep one.
We'll keep one rig busy in the Haynesville-Bossier just to have some activity there.
You can't get dormant in our single best area.
So we would you can budget at least 1 rig there.
Now whether we go north of that or not I mean our goal is to stay within operating cash flow.
You have to see what our exit rate looks like.
You have to see what percent liquids we are versus gas and to see where gas price is or oil prices are.
I think we're going to have years of drilling in Eagle Ford for good acreage and I think we've got years and years and years of drilling in the Haynesville-Bossier.
So a lot of those questions we won't know until the latter part of 2011.
As far as how many rigs I mean again like Roland said 2 or 3 in Eagle Ford that's a good starting point.
One in the Haynesville is a good starting point that gives your site 4 and the question is do you add 2 more? I think given the large project they were putting on line in 2012 in the Haynesville that's going to soften that number from what it could have been otherwise.
I mean we're going to have some increases upfront in 2012 from the gas side even if we run no rigs in Haynesville.
L.L.C.</strong> And would the drill-to-earn or drilling carrier going to determine that you referenced in terms of this incremental 4 000 or 5 000 acres next year would that be additive to what you would have expected to spend there with say commodity prices stayed the way they are today which you just borrow from the Haynesville to fund that drilling? Well I think you look at you would budget those wells that we're drilling on that acreage at 100% like what our Eagle Ford is now and some of that dollars will actually be going paying for the leasehold.
It's not a real large number in the scheme of things.
So it's not a major factor in how we look at the budget at all next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.</strong> Just following up on Ron's question there.
What sort of say you do go with a lower rig count in the Haynesville next year based on lower gas prices at that time what sort of production growth would you be looking at versus say the exit rate of 280 million plus projected for this year say with 1 rig in the Haynesville and 3 4 rigs in the Eagle Ford? We're not really ready to speculate on that at this point.
I mean it's I think once we do allocate our budget out we'll give some kind on production but just to speculate if you stop all drilling what it will be? It's just us.
That's not really what we're at all focused on right now.
It's more of allocating the resources to the best return overall.
And so we're certainly not going to focus on top line production as the only number or we would think the markets wouldn't either.
It's really what can generate the most profits the most sales and so that's how we're going to approach 2012 just worrying about a number.
And as Roland said it's for the first time we'll have complete flexibility whether we want to put rigs in the Haynesville-Bossier or in Eagle Ford beginning in 2011 we didn't have that luxury.
And I think we'll have the balance sheet to do it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
What is the projected rate of return for the Haynesville wells you're average change of the well say even using the pad drilling $8 million well cost? Say 450 gas environment.
Using the development cost that we're seeing right now in our pad drilling Richard we're probably in the 20% to 30% range.
I don't have that number exactly in front of me but I think that's probably pretty close.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And what are you looking at for expected working interest with the wells to be brought online in the second half of 2011 considering that you have a decent amount of non-op wells still in the back log? I don't have that number in front of me Richard.
Our operated wells that we are drilling this year are probably averaged well over 90% working interest the non-op wells and the well count are...
2% to 18%.
I mean they're kind of all over the board.
We focus our operated wells.
They fill in the non-op just as a number but the wells we complete are mainly operated wells.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
How many non-op wells still in the backlog? I think there were 9 backlog.
Inc.</strong> Nine gross? Yes.
Inc.</strong> What's the net on that roughly? Probably less than 2.
I didn't add that number but it's low.
It's probably closer to one maybe...
We had several days that are like a tenth of a 1%.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Did mention how much you paid for the 3 000 Eagle Ford acres added in the quarter? We didn't mention that specifically since we're still obviously it's still active area we really don't want to get that specific on every deal.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
On the Eagle Ford you spoke to the [indiscernible] A#1H well earlier on the call.
That was a well I believe that is located in Atascosa County and just looking at the map it appears to be probably your northernmost located well in that county and one I think that was spud [ph] in late June.
Can you tell us anything more about the completion plan for that particular well plus how it may differ from the nearby NWR 1H well which carried an IP rate of close to 400 BOE per day Yes Dan this is Mark.
The [indiscernible] well is just slightly maybe about 1 mile 1.5 miles northwest of the NWR well.
It's substantially  longer lateral it's over 7 000 feet and I believe the NWR was in the 4 000-foot range.
We have changed our frac design significantly since the NWR which was our first completion which was a cross-linked gel frac with a multiple profit types and this well it's all sand it's a lot more fluid thin fluids more of a hybrid type design more stages closer cluster spacing just a lot of changes in the completion design which we've developed over the last 6 or 7 wells.
Okay.
And generally what is the gas oil ratio in that part of the county what you know from NWR well at least? Our NWR has about a 700 gas oil ratio.
We want [indiscernible] to be similar.
Okay.
And that would compare to the kind of the Hill well which I believe you mentioned carried about 1 500.
Is that right? Correct.
Okay.
And then can you discuss the use of the restricted choke on the Hill well that is -- is this that the standard practice here going forward or at least in that part of McMullen County is that the standard practice going forward and why? It is a standard practice.
We've seen it be successful in the Haynesville and we're still evaluating it.
We do believe it's been successful in the Eagle Ford we think our wells have outperformed some of the wells in the vicinity of them because we haven't pulled them real hard.
We've produced them at a more restricted rate and we've really done that with all of our wells and even the NWR which is our first well that was completed and our shallowest well that well still is not on pump.
It's flowing naturally so we've been successful in not having to go to Artificial Lift early because we're flowing the wells at a more moderate rate.
And that's 7 months or 8 months of production for that well? Yes.
And I know that other operators have put their wells on either gas lift or pump within a month or 2 after completions.
So we think our procedure has worked.
Okay.
And then my last question and forgive me if this was asked and already answered.
But of the 21 000 net acres currently at the Eagle Ford Shale what percentage of that leasehold is held by production today? Probably less than 10% today.
We've only drilled -- we only have 6 producing wells.
So we hold 640 acres that's I guess that would be 6 000 acres that would be 25%.
But I don't really think if the math works out quite that well.
And then what's the schedule here going forward over the next 12 24 months? That is by year-end 2012 year-end 2013 how much of the acreage will be held by production by those time periods? Dan that's a little bit of a moving target because we're adding acreage as we go so our drilling for the next 2 years won't be just on the acreage that we have acquired so far.
I mean I do expect we would be maybe 50% held by the end of next year but if we had a lot of new acreage we might be less than that.
If we can add to quality acreage we think we can.
I mean 50% is probably good that's a good number.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Again I'm sorry that we started 10 minutes late.
We were not connected at the time we thought we would be.
I think we've given good numbers out.
I think we've given -- with the third fourth quarter looks very very bright.
I think we've bottomed out as far as the sector on gas prices and I think things are bright for the future.
We'll continue to protect our balance sheet and grow this company for all the stockholders.
Thanks for your attention.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Comstock Resources Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jennifer and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Jay Allison President and CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you Jennifer.
And welcome to the Comstock Resources Third Quarter 2011 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view the slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled Third Quarter 2011 Results.
I am Jay Allison President of Comstock.
And with me this morning is Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Vice President of Operations.
During this call we will review our 2011 third quarter financial and operating results update the results of our 2011 drilling program and discuss our plans for 2012.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentations.
And note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
If you'll turn to Page 3 of the presentation this is the 2011 third quarter highlights.
Please refer to Page 3 of the presentation where we will  summarize the third quarter results.
We have improved our financial results this year despite weak natural gas prices by increasing production and lowering our operating cost.
We reported revenues of $119 million generated EBITDAX of $94 million and had operating cash flow of $86 million or $1.79 per share.
The gain we recognized from selling some of our Stone Energy shares allowed us to make a slight profit this quarter of $1.3 million or $0.03 per share.
Our production increased 53% over the third quarter of last year and 8% over our strong second quarter.
The Haynesville program is driving the production gains this year as we have caught up on completions of wells we drilled in 2010 but were not completed due to the lack of frac services.
We're very pleased with the results of our 2011 drilling program this year.
We drilled 67 successful wells including 51 Haynesville shale wells and 12 Eagle Ford shale wells.
In the Eagle Ford we have probed up our acreage in this oil-rich play and have increased our holdings to  28 000 net acres.
Our dedicated completion crew started working in South Texas in the third quarter.
We put 4 new Eagle Ford wells on production and are currently completing 5 more.
Our balance sheet continues to be very strong.
We continue to have good liquidity and currently have approximately $460 million in cash or marketable securities available borrowings on our credit facility.
We will also talk about our preliminary plans for 2012 on this call when we plan to fund our drilling program with operating cash flow to protect our strong balance sheet.
I'll turn it over to Ronald Burns to review the financial results for this quarter in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
Slide 4 in the presentation shows our oil and gas production on a daily basis for the last 15 quarters and it's broken out by operating region.
Production from our Haynesville shale program is shown in blue on that chart.
In the third quarter this year our production averaged 285 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day a 53% increase over the third quarter of last year and 8% higher than the production in the second quarter of this year.
The production this quarter set a third consecutive new record high for us.
Haynesville production increased to 200 million per day as compared to 176 million per day in the prior quarter.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells decreased a little this quarter to 38 million a day and we averaged 40 million in our South Texas region and 7 million in our other regions.
Looking ahead we believe our production will come in between 94 and 97 Bcfe in 2011 which represents a 28% to 32% growth over 2010's production.
During the fourth quarter our completion crew worked primarily in our South Texas region and our Eagle Ford program and returns to the Haynesville in late December to complete 9 wells in a 10-well pad development project.
As a result we expect fourth quarter production to decline by about 2% to 4% from our high third quarter level and then increase substantially in the first quarter of 2012 when this project is put online.
Oil prices continue to be strong in the third quarter which we cover on Slide 5.
Our realized oil price increased 35% in the third quarter of 2011 to $87.50 per barrel as compared to $64.97 per barrel in the third quarter of 2010.
For the first 9 months of this year our average oil price was $92.50 39% higher than our average oil price of $66.54 for the same period in 2010.
Our realized oil price in the third quarter  has averaged 98% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price.
We expect our oil price differential to improve in our Eagle Ford program as much as $5 a barrel based on new marketing arrangements we are making as we've been able to capture some of the spread that exist between the WTI price in the Louisiana Gulf Coast market.
Natural gas prices worsened in the quarter as shown on Slide 6.
Our average gas price decreased 4% in the third quarter to $4.9 per Mcf as compared to $4.24 in the third quarter of 2010.
For the first 9 months of this year our average gas price decreased 10% to $4.09 per Mcf as compared to $4.55 per Mcf for the same period in 2010.
Our realized gas price is averaging 97% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price.
On Slide 7 we cover our oil and gas sales.
Driven by the 53% production increase our sales increased by 50% to $119 million in the third quarter.
For the first 9 months this year our sales increased 16% to $320 million as compared to $277 million for the same period in 2010 as the weaker natural gas prices offset some of the production gains we've made this year.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and expiration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX in the third quarter increased by 72% to $94 million as shown on Slide 8.
For the first 3 quarters of 2011 EBITDAX increased 25% to $246 million.
Slide 9 covers our operating cash flow.
The stronger revenues in production and lower per unit cost caused our operating cash flow for the quarter to increase 81% to $86 million as compared to the $47 million we had in the third quarter of last year.
For the first 9 months of this year operating cash flow was $219 million 25% higher than cash flow of $175 million for the same period in 2010.
On Slide 10 we outlined our earnings for this quarter and for the first 3 quarters of 2011.
We reported net income of $1.3 million this quarter or $0.03 per share as compared to a loss of $4.7 million or $0.10 per share in 2010's third quarter.
For the first 9 months of this year we reported net income of $7.7 million or $0.16 per share as compared to net income for the first 9 months of last year of $1 million or $0.02 per share.
The third quarter results include a gain of $2.5 million or $1.6 million after tax or $0.04 per share that relates to the gains on the sales of our marketable securities during the quarter.
The 9-month financial results include several unusual items.
We had a charge of $1.1 million or $0.7 million after tax or $0.02 per share related to the early redemption of our 2012 senior notes in the first quarter.
We also had a $9.8 million impairment or $6.4 million after tax or $0.14 per share for expired leases and we had a significant gain from the sale of our marketable securities made so far this year of $32.2 million or $20.9 million after tax or $0.46 per share.
On Slide 11 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter.
Our lifting costs are comprised of 3 components: production taxes transportation and then other field level operating cost.
Our lifting costs continued to improve falling to $0.79 per Mcfe this quarter as compared to $1.17 per Mcfe in the third quarter 2010 and $0.85 per Mcfe in the previous quarter.
Production taxes were only $0.01 this quarter and transportation averaged $0.31 this quarter.
Refunds of production taxes previously paid lowered the taxes we had this quarter.
Field operating costs averaged $0.47 per Mcfe this quarter as compared to $0.75 at the third quarter of last year and then $0.51 in the second quarter of this year.
Higher production in the Haynesville combined with the absence of the high-cost properties we sold in the fourth quarter of last year are allowing us to achieve the lower lifting rate.
On Slide 12 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative expenses decreased to $0.18 per Mcfe in the third quarter as compared to $0.29 per Mcfe in the third quarter of 2010 and $0.21 per Mcfe in the previous quarter.
The improvement is due to the higher production level combined with the lower G&amp;A cost in 2011.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 13.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the third quarter improved to $2.96 per Mcfe a decrease from the $3.12 rate we had in the second quarter of this year but it's an increase from the $2.72 rate we had in the third quarter of last year.
On Slide 14 we detailed our capital expenditures.
We spent $496 million in the first 3 quarters of this year as compared to the $393 million that we spent in 2010's first 3 quarters.
We spent $344 million in our east Texas/north Louisiana region with $146 million in our South Texas region and $6 million in our other regions.
$53 million of the $496 million spent so far in 2011 was for additional leasehold in the Eagle Ford shale or the Haynesville shale.
We expect to spend a total of $575 million in 2011 on our drilling and completion activities.
In addition we expect to spend up to $125 million on acreage acquisitions in 2011.
The $24 million of this $125 million will be in the form of a drilling carry that will be paid by us over the next 2 years.
Slide 15 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the third quarter.
On September 30 we had $5 million in cash and $32 million in marketable securities on hand representing the 2 million shares we hold in Stone Energy.
The value of these shares has increased somewhat since the September 30 balance sheet date.
In total we have $747 million of debt which is comprised of $300 million of our 7 3/4% senior notes $297 million of our 8 3/8% senior notes and then $150 million outstanding under our bank credit facility.
On October 31 the borrowing base for our credit facility was increased to $550 million.
Taking into account the cash on our balance sheet and our marketable securities and our unused $400 million that's available on our bank credit line we have about $460 million in liquidity.
Our book equity at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion making our net debt about 39% of our total capitalization.
I'll now turn it back over to Jay.
Thanks Roland.
If everybody will turn to Slide 13 -- or 16.
On Slide 16 we have an updated map of our holdings in the Haynesville shale play in north Louisiana and east Texas.
Our acreage in highlighted in blue.
We currently have 90 000 gross acres or 79 000 net acres that we believe are prospective for Haynesville shale development.
59 000 acres are in north Louisiana the better part of the play.
Given expected well spacing of 80 acres and an expected per well recovery of 6 Bcfe per well our acreage could have 4.4 Tcfe of resource potential.
Slide 17 shows the acreage that we believe also has potential for the development of the upper Haynesville shale or middle Bossier shale.
Our acreage is highlighted in blue.
We currently have 60 000 gross acres or 51 000 net acres that we believe are prospective.
Given similar expected well spacing of 80 acres and expected per well recovery of 5 Bcfe per well our acreage could have 2.4 Tcfe of resource potential.
I will now have Mark Williams our Head of Operations give us an update on our drilling program this year.
Mark? Thank you Jay.
On Slide 18 we recap our activity in our East Texas/North Louisiana region for this quarter.
Our activity in this region is primarily focused on developing our Haynesville and Bossier shale properties.
We drilled 52 wells or 21.6 net in this region in 6 different fields in the first 9 months of this year and all but one of those were Haynesville or Bossier shale wells.
We participated in one Cotton Valley vertical well.
All of the wells were successful.
In the first 3 quarters of this year we completed 65 or 35.7 net of our Haynesville or Bossier shale wells which were put on production at an average per well initial production rate of 10 million cubic feet equivalent per day under our restricted choke program.
Since we initiated our Haynesville shale program in 2008 we have now drilled a total of 169 wells 99 net wells soon to break the 100 mark.
Slide 20 shows the first 2 units in the Logansport field DeSoto Parish Louisiana where we are fully developing the Haynesville on 80 acres spacing.
Section 22 shown on the left is a 640-acre unit which was put on production in July -- near the end of July.
As you can see we utilized 3 drilling pads to drilling and fleet the 8 wells which increases our efficiency and reduces our overall well cost.
This process also allows zipper fracs to be utilized which is a stimulation method where all the wells on the pad our frac-ed with one frac fleet by alternating between the wells in a stage-by-stage procedure.
We believe this method increases the effectiveness of the stimulations on the wells as compared to frac-ing them one at a time.
By completing all the wells before producing any of them we think the ultimate recovery of the section will be maximized.
The schematic on the right side of Slide 20 shows our sections 19 and 20 also on Logansport field which are combined to form an 800-acre unit.
Here we are in the process of drilling 9 wells to develop the unit as there is already one existing Haynesville producer.
We will begin completion operations on this unit in late December and expect first production in early 2012.
Our South Texas region is displayed on Slide 21.
All of our South Texas activity in 2011 has been focused on our Eagle Ford program.
We drilled 12 Eagle Ford shale wells and that was 12 net also in the first 9 months of 2011.
So far this year we have completed 8 of these wells and 8 net including a well drilled in 2010.
And the 8 wells had an average per well additional production rate of 683 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We have 5 additional wells that are being completed by our dedicated frac crew at this time.
We plan to all bring of these wells on at the same time to maximize the effectiveness of the fracs.
On Slide 22 we outlined our Eagle Ford shale play in South Texas.
We increased our holdings in the Eagle Ford to 32 000 gross acres and 28 000 net acres in this quarter.
We closed on approximately 6 000 net acres in October in 2 separate transactions.
Using a conservative 100-acre spacing assumption we believe our acreage which is all in the oil window has the potential to recover 83 million barrels of oil equivalent net to our interest.
We have 10 producing wells on our acreage including 4 wells we completed in the third quarter.
The Cutter Creek #1H was drilled to a vertical depth of 9 970 feet with a 4 824-foot lateral and was tested at an initial rate of 575 barrels of oil per day and 0.2 million cubic feet of natural gas per day or 608 BOE per day.
The Forrest Wheeler #1H was drilled to a vertical depth of 11 142 feet with a 5 458-foot lateral.
This well was tested at an initial rate of 480 barrels of oil per day 0.7 million cubic feet of gas per day or 597 BOE per day.
The Rancho Tres Hijos "A" #1H on the map it's RTH "A" #1H was drilled to a vertical depth of 10 911 feet with a 4 512-foot lateral.
This well was tested at an initial rate of 465 barrels of oil per day and 0.6 million cubic feet of natural gas per day or 565 BOE per day.
The Jupe "A" #1H was drilled to a vertical depth of 8 282 feet with a 7 101-foot lateral.
This well was tested at an initial rate of 197 barrels of oil per day and 100.1 million cubic feet of gas per day or 218 BOE per day.
The Jupe is our first disappointing well in the play and it appears to be in a low pleasure area of the reservoir.
This well will be the first well that we will put on artificial lift and we expect the production rate to improve from the initial test rate when it's on pumped.
The well is actually on pump as of the end of last week.
It's still improving and it's improved at least 50% from the test rate and is still cleaning up.
All the reported of the well results were obtained while following our restricted choke program.
I'll now turn back it over to Jay.
I'll go over the final 2 slides which is the 2012 drilling program and then the  2011 and 2012 outlook.
And then probably as group we'll go back to the Slide 22 which is the Eagle Ford shale program.
But if you go to Slide 23 we outlined what we expect to spend in 2012 on our drilling program.
With the weak outlook for natural gas prices we plan to reduce our spending level next year in order to line up with our spending with the cash flow that we think that we'll probably have.
We plan to focus on our oil projects as they do have the higher returns.
In the Haynesville we're reduced from 3 rigs to only 1 rig.
In our east Texas/north Louisiana region we plan to spend $104 million to drill 38 wells or 13.3 net wells.
This includes 11 operated wells or 7.9 net wells with the remaining wells representing our share of non-operated wells that we will participate in.
We'll be carrying over 17 wells or about 14.7 net wells that we drilled this year to be completed in the first quarter of 2012.
The cost to complete these wells is about $65 million.
The rest of the budget is being spent to drill oil wells.
We're planning to drill 32 wells or about 28.9 net wells on our Eagle Ford shale acreage.
We have budgeted $221 million for our Eagle Ford program which includes $14 million to complete 6 wells or 5.6 net wells that we'll drill this year.
We have $6 million budgeted for our other regions.
In total we plan to spend $396 million on drilling in 2012 which should come close to being a 100% funded by our operating cash flow.
We believe this program will provide 8% to 12%-plus production growth in 2012 with oil production growing from 5% in 2011 anywhere from 10% to 12-plus percent in 2012.
To the extent we have stronger natural gas prices we do have the flexibility to ramp up drilling and out of the Haynesville or Eagle Ford programs.
The final slide which is the 2011 and 2012 outlook is on Slide 24.
We are having a very good year despite the low natural gas prices.
Our production growth has been very strong.
We expect production to increase by 28% to 32% over last year with completion of the backlog of wells drilled in 2010.
Our low-cost structure continues to improve each quarter with a higher production level and drilling and completion efficiencies that we're now seeing.
Our Eagle Ford shale program in south Texas is progressing.
We have 2 rigs drilling on our Eagle Ford shale acreage and we've increased our acreage holdings to 28 000 net acres and have achieved that at a reasonable $6 000 $7 000-per-acre cost.
The market value for our Eagle Ford acreage is more than 3x our average cost per acre.
During this period of weak natural gas prices the Eagle Ford program gives us a high return area to grow our oil condensate and natural gas liquids production.
We continue to guard our strong balance sheet.
We have $400 million available on our bank credit facility and $60 million in marketable securities and cash to supplement the cash flow we will generate.
We plan to spend approximately $396 million in 2012 for drilling and completion activities.
We expect to reduce the number of rigs drilling for natural gas in our Haynesville shale program from 3 rigs to 1 rig.
We will be adding one drilling rig during 2012 to the 2 which are currently drilling for oil in the Eagle Ford shale development program in South Texas.
Our 2012 drilling program will focus much of our drilling activity on growing our oil production while at the same time staying within operating cash flow that we should generate.
To the extent that natural gas prices improve again we do have the flexibility to increase our drilling activity in either the Eagle Ford shale or Haynesville shale depending upon where we can generate the best returns.
For the rest of the call we will take questions only from research analysts who follow the stock.
So Jennifer I'll turn it back over to you to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe talk little bit more about the restricted rate in the Eagle Ford maybe how the production looks over the first couple of months versus not restricting the wells as much? Yes Brian.
This is Mark.
Everyone you might want to go to Slide 22 which is the Eagle Ford shale program and maybe we can hit a lot of questions around the Eagle Ford and restricted rate and where the other 5 wells are drilled and what we expect in the future of those wells.
Something like that Brian.
Is that okay? Research Division</strong> That's perfect.
Yes Brian.
On the restricted rate program we're following the same basic procedure that we've used in the Haynesville that we feel had been very successful.
We bring the wells on on a small choke and work them up to maybe about $14 to an $18.64 choke and maintain that steady choke size monitoring -- pressure monitoring rate.
Based on the evaluation that we've done of our wells versus offset wells we believe that we're getting a pretty large benefit from the restricted rate program.
The IPE rates that we report are -- would be pretty equivalent to 30-day rates because we don't see much decline in the very very early life of the well for the first 30 to 60 days.
They're still cleaning up and they're still steady or improving.
So these are -- the program is moderating the decline and we feel like it's given us the best EUR.
Research Division</strong> And does this match your type curve on the 400 000 barrels -- assuming the 650 barrels a day that stays relatively flat for a month or 2 and does that match your type curve to the 400 000 barrels? All right.
Yes it does.
That's an average type curve.
The acreage to the north is basically in Atascosa County is a little bit less than that.
The acreage south in McMullen is a little higher than that.
So on average -- on a weighted average with our acreage 400 is a good number.
The 400 really matches that 600 550 to 650 IPE rate.
And then the wells down to the south like the Hill #1 that had 1 095 that was going to be a good bit over the 400 MBOE number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was helpful.
And just one final.
What are you seeing now on the cost of the Eagle Ford the completed well cost? We're -- right now we're still drilling on single well deals and we're running $8.3 million to $8.5 million.
When we get into our development program and I think we'll see it on our Hill lease that we just finished completing and we get all those costs accrued we'll see some improvement like we did in the Haynesville.
And we expect to knock maybe $0.5 million to $750 000 million off of our average well cost once we do that.
But we're still primarily drilling to test acres and hold leases.
I think with that same question Mark.
Why don't you go into the wells the location of the wells that have not been reported on.
Okay.
We have done one full lease development.
It is on the Hill lease which is the -- some of the southernmost acreage.
We have completed 5 additional wells on the Hill lease to go along with the Hill #1 so it's a fully-developed 6-well lease.
We have completed the fracs on the 5 wells and we're currently drilling out frac plugs and starting our flowback but it's just been going on for a few days.
And we picked that area because the results were good.
It gave us opportunity to perform microseismic on our wells to gain some knowledge about the frac growth directions things like that.
And we're testing various frac technologies on that lease and to see which one we feel like gives us the best result.
And we should have those results here by the next call along with some others.
We're also drilling a well near the Carlson.
That well will be reported in the -- with the fourth quarter results and then another Cutter Creek well which would be reported in the fourth quarter.
We're really focusing mainly in the La Salle McMullen area with our development activity.
And then we'll be focusing next year on a lot of the new acreage that we've picked up.
I think that's an important piece of the story.
In other words you've seen 4 more but there are 5 Eagle Ford wells all at McMullen that are in various stages of completion.
And I think if you were to see those you'd be a little more pleased with the total results that we've shown you from before.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Question on the 6 000 acres added.
I'm assuming that's the 28 000 is -- to get to that number that's what you added in October.
Is that correct? Yes that's correct Ron.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then looking at your map you have -- that acreage looks like it was added some over in eastern Atascosa County some in La Salle County and some in the McMullen County.
Can you -- and maybe Mark this is more for you.
When you look at the trend especially on that far eastern Atascosa County acreage where does that land in terms of depth and/or pressure regime? Do you expect it to be more like the NWR well you drilled in Atascosa County or the Jupe? This is Mark.
That acreage the way we put that on our maps and geologically it should be very similar to our Cutter Creek and Carlson area depth-wise pressure.
It's on trend to the northeast with well results like our Coates well that have acted very similarly to the Cutter Creek and the Carlson.
We haven't added any acreage up around the NWR and the Jupe since the very beginning of the program.
I think that was the first block of acreage we leased.
And then the early results in the area told us don't add any acreage up there until we can prove that we should.
And that's why we drilled the Jupe well with a long lateral to try to support the idea of being able to add acreage up there because it's been available and we've turned down a lot of deals in that area.
We like acreage we've added in north eastern Atascosa.
And like I said it's on trend with our Cutter Creek and all the results we see along the trend we're very satisfied with.
The other acreage was in -- the other bigger block was in La Salle and there again it's right on trend with our Carlson and our Cutter Creek.
And so we feel good about it also.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I look at -- if we look at your 2012 budget when you look at the 32 wells you plan on drilling in the Eagle Ford next year can you sketch out at least as you view it today how those wells will be split between your McMullen your Atascosa and your La Salle/McMullen County blocks? Six of the wells are going to be on that -- at least planned right now are going to north eastern Atascosa or that southeastern Atascosa block to hold that acreage.
Almost all of these drilling is drilling under primary terms of leases.
So we will be drilling to maintain our leases and hold our acreage.
So 6 of the 32 wells would be up there.
I believe about 10 of them are in that 4 corners area  of the McMullen La Salle Frio Atascosa the Carlson area.
The remainder are going to be the Cutter Creek area and then down in Swenson Hill area to hold acreage down there.
So about 2/3 of it is McMullen and the rest of it is on that 4 corners  area and then 6 at the northeast.
By the way we don't have any more wells planned on our Jupe NWR area at this time.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look at the drilling plans.
And can you do one derivative of that in terms of compare the drilling plans with the completion plans? I know you had a lot of carryovers this year.
It sounds like you'll have some carryovers in both areas in the first quarter of this year.
But when you look at next year's budget and even the remainder of this year in the Eagle Ford you plan on drilling another 7 to 10 wells in Eagle Ford this year 32 next.
How many completions you do expect to get in the Eagle Ford? I think it's going to be pretty much a one for one on our drilling plans.
We're -- the carryover of the Eagle Ford wells here at the end of 2011 is mainly due to us taking our frac crew to the Haynesville to frac that 10-well pad.
So that kind of drives the carryover both of the Haynesville completions and of the Eagle Ford completions.
We don't have any 10-well pads planned for next year because we're going to only have one rig in the Haynesville and it's going to be primarily drilling to maintain leases and we have a little of some new acreage -- a little bit of new acreage we've picked up that we've got to drill couple wells on.
We won't have any of that type of carryover activity next year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Roland one last for you.
You mentioned on WTI price or your Eagle Ford pricing a your price realizations were higher than they had been relative to WTI in the third quarter.
And did you say you expect that to further increase by $4 or $5 per barrel? And if so any more background on that marketing arrangement you're working on? Yes Ron.
We didn't really see much of that improvement in the third quarter yet because those are new arrangements coming in the plays [ph] now.
But I think for a lot of our November and December production and then first quarter next year we're going to get a better pricing priced $5 better than what we have been receiving in there for a lot of our Eagle Ford production.
And we think that's kind of the start of a trend where we see that the oil in that area is -- a lot of people have been transporting that oil into Louisiana market by barges by rail by various means.
And a lot of that capacity has ramped up there they're now willing to start sharing some of those spreads with the producers.
So I think that that kind of continues into next year.
And we're actually looking to try to price our -- we're hoping to be able to start doing our marketing there and price it off of LLS and not WTI.
And so were working on that at this time.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And then you're working is this a kind of a 12-month marketing arrangement or is this almost month to month? Or how are you approaching that negotiation? I think the -- I don't think we're -- I think to the extent if we really like it we might go to a longer term.
But right now typically we do 6-months-type marketing arrangements.
Your next question comes from the line of Kim Pacanovsky.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Is that marketing arrangement for 100% of your crews? Not at this point no.
It's a lot of new Eagle Ford production.
I don't think 100% of it is in there yet.
But I think it will be probably about the time we get into it next year.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And Roland when you say that virtually all of your CapEx is going to be covered by your cash flow in 2012 what kind of price deck are you using for oil and gas? That's definitely variable because at a different day you could come up with a different answer.
But generally we're looking at market prices at least last week.
I don't know where they are today.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess kind of to play devil's advocate.
This is a conversation we've had many times about hedging and I'm just wondering if you thought about hedging some of the crude with crude prices so strong and there being so much volatility in  world markets with a whole Europe thing going on.
I mean have you thought about putting a little bit of crude in hedges? Yes Kim.
We definitely looked at that for the Eagle Ford program because of the need to have strong oil prices to support that program.
Like we've been talking about I think one of the problems is getting -- making sure that we can figure it -- get the differentials where when we do hedge we have a real hedge.
And I  think there's -- with that change in the market there to the extent you have a WTI hedge in place it may not be very good.
So it may not be very -- so I think that's why we'd like to see some of the contracts price more like LLS that's really markets going there.
So I think all that's kind of working together but we do have some target prices that we wouldn't mind locking in on the oil to support some of the Eagle Ford development.
And then much higher -- better gas prices would support maybe adding a rate to the Haynesville.
So we obviously aren't anywhere near there.
So that's why we've been focusing probably on the oil.
It makes a more realistic sense of [indiscernible] Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
And that block that you were talking about in northeastern -- or actually it's really not it's the northeastern part of your property in Atascosa when will you put the first well in on that new block of leasehold? And also when will that 2012 rig arrive in the program the new rig? As far as that new leasehold on our northeastern property southeast of Atascosa County.
I think that the December move in date.
We still got to get all the surface work done settle with landowners and all that.
But that's what we're planning on doing just drilling the first well up there very early and then looking at the results and then moving in midyear next year to drill the rest of them.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just when the new rig is going to move in? The new rig is scheduled to move in in June.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> June? Okay June.
One more quick question.
What was the 2010 average cost on the Haynesville wells? Just so we can compare that $8 million AFC that you're seeing now.
I think it was about $9.5 million to maybe even slightly higher than that for 2010.
We probably had -- it went up to as much as $10 million at one point or maybe near.
And that's definitely improved a lot in 2011.
Kim I think on hedges too.
We've said this before.
Up until the end of 2010 we didn't have a shale play that we thought that you could really farm wells on them.
We think we have years and years and years of drilling in the Haynesville Bossier.
So if you look at our balance sheet today and you see we pulled back from 7 rig program now to -- we'll have a one rig program next year.
And we're trying to drill within our operating cash flow but I think that if prices go up and that causes us -- in other words we had taken action because prices go up.
If prices go up that cause us to add a rig or 2 out either in the Eagle Ford or in the Haynesville Bossier I think at that point of time if you're going to commit to a rig for a year -- you can commit a completion crew for a year then I think you could hedge that program.
And I think for the very first time again we have that program in the gas window at the Haynesville Bossier.
And I think now we'll probably have it in the Eagle Ford.
So when you talk about hedging now you're hedging program that you almost know the outcome of.
So I think our attitude is different.
Historically we would hedge if we bought something.
We didn't aggressively buy in '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 and even this year as you know.
There was acreage acquisitions or purchases and it was the sell of Bois d'Arc et cetera.
But I think the hedges are a little different now when you talk about a hedging program that you probably know the outcome of.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> But you could've hedged a program in the Haynesville that you knew the outcome of.
I think ...
No I don't think because we didn't -- we only drilled one well in '08.
In '09 it was -- the middle of '09 until people quit drilling in Harrison County and you start drilling in DeSoto.
And even if you look in '09 we've only drilled 42 wells and they were spotty.
We've drilled them kind of like in Eagle Ford.
We drilled them in all 4 corners of acreage.
Then you go to 2010.
In 2010 that's when we drilled more Bossier wells.
We drilled more Haynesville wells and the bottom really fell out.
So starting somewhere kind of in the middle of 2010 I think at that point in time you can say yes you now understand your Haynesville Bossier acreage as the other industry partners do so you can start hedging.
But there's not been a period where you would see a $5-plus gas price to hedge.
And so they were pulling the program back not adding rigs.
Your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Thinking about the results of the Jupe well there.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of what happens geologically as you move from sort of the south of that acreage block you have where you have the NWR well about 400 barrels a day up to the Jupe.
How did things change there? And are those metrics you can apply when you're looking at future acreage? Noel this is Mark.
Yes what we saw in the Jupe well was lower reservoir pressure.
And it may just be that we're just far and up north from the NWR that we've gone from a slightly overpressured reservoir to just a very slightly underpressured reservoir.
And so the well wouldn't flow oil against a full column of water.
If it was flowing back frac water but it wasn't.
No oil was coming into the fractures from the reservoir.
As soon as we got the pressure down just a few hundred pounds we started making a fair amount of oil.
And now we put it on this artificial lift system we're making substantially more oil.
So it's a little bit underpressured.
We didn't expect it to be quite that underpressured but one of the things we think is going on and we've seen along the play is that if you get too close to the Pearsall Austin Chalk production which is just immediately above the Eagle Ford that you could have issues with being underpressured.
And we thought this well was far enough away because it's still several miles away from any Austin chalk production.
But it may just be right on that feather edge of being affected by the Pearsall field.
One of the reasons we haven't purchased any acreage that shallow or that far north and we've really focused a little bit deeper than that and will continue do so based on these results.
Research Division</strong> And sorry if you said this before.
The new acreage block further north and east in Atascosa it is deeper there? That's correct.
That depth and pressure is going to be very equivalent to our Cutter Creek.
So if you kind of follow the direction of the color contour lines on our map and where it drops down to the southwest that depth is very similar to our Cutter Creek and Coates wells.
So we don't expect any issues with being under pressure at that location as compared to the Jupe.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I just had a question on the balance sheet.
I wanted to check with Roland.
Did you say that your bank credit line balance is $150 million right now? That's correct Noel.
Research Division</strong> But the total debt $747 million am I missing something? Because I thought the 2 -- your 2 high yields were less than $600 million together? They are slightly less than $600 million one's $300 million and one's $297 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's pretty close then? Yes.
This is what's on the bank credit facility.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a last thing.
Could you talk a little bit about what your thinking is on unit costs next year as your mix is going to change a bit on more oil from the Eagle Ford and then eventually a decline on the Haynesville? Just how the different cost lines will look? Sure.
As we look at next year the first half of next year we see kind of a pretty big gas growth couple of quarters.
And then after that with the program kind of wound down in the Haynesville we'll see -- that's where we'll see more our biggest oil percentage coming in.
So I think these cost trend show up in the second half of next year not so much in the first because of all that gas is coming on in the first half of the year.
If you look at our proposed budget and with the production growth targets and the change from 5% natural gas 5% oil component to 10% to 12% oil we would see the lifting cost increase a little bit on a per unit basis just because we'll have production taxes on oil.
Production is not exempt like some of the tight gas projects are.
And we'll have higher -- we'll have some higher overall fuel costs but just the cost to move oil and store it and dispose of water are going to be higher.
They're very little cost associated with producing a Haynesville gas well.
But given the composition we really see our lifting cost rate in the aggregate maybe going up $0.15 to $0.20 per Mcfe with the result of that transition in 2012.
We see the revenues per Mcfe increasing dramatically beyond that.
So it's a much more higher cash flow per unit of production with that production merit [ph].
So we would see revenues maybe increasing $0.80 per Mcfe just use current spot prices today on that same production mix with costs only going up a fraction of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And G&amp;A any significant impact on that sort of as you had in the second half of the year? I'm not sure if there's...
G&amp;A is relatively stable and  we expect higher production -- higher production rate in general next year.
So that means it should be no higher than it is now if not lower.
The only pressure on cost would be on the lifting cost side.
It would be pretty minor compared to the big growth in the revenues.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani.
LLC Research Division</strong> How much acres do you guys have in that area where you drilled the Jupe and NWR wells? Leo this is Mark.
We have about 5 000 acres in the Jupe and NWR area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that a gross number or net? That's a net number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess continuing that to add Eagle Ford acreage obviously you added some pretty significant acreage here in October can we expect that to continue to grow going forward? And if you guys could just comment on how that might look within say 12 months from now.
Leo this is Roland.
We expect potentially that to grow by maybe a couple of -- about 2 000 more acres with stuff that we're currently trying to work on and hopefully close.
So that's kind of more the immediate -- I think we would have to -- for next year we just really -- to the extent of the opportunities that makes sense to us we would add acreage.
I think it's not easy to come by acreage in the area that we want to develop in the Eagle Ford.
I would think that -- we're working on some other areas other oil areas and that's properly where we add acreage more likely than the Eagle Ford.
But we'll respond to opportunities that come available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you guys just talk about infrastructure in the Eagle Ford? Are you guys getting into any pipelines? Are you just trucking your oil to kind of other pipelines? Or how are you guys kind of managing that process? Leo we're pretty much selling our oil at the well side.
So it's picked up by truck and then it depends on what our purchasers -- sometimes they're able to offload it in a pipeline.
Sometimes they're -- some of it they were actually moving by rail car and others to ultimately get it to -- transport it to the Gulf Coast markets where they are trying to move all the oil because that's where they're getting the premium prices.
But were not transporting -- we're not involved in actually transporting our oil at all.
We're selling it at the wellhead.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And there haven't been any issues with the trucks not showing up on time or anything like that? For the most part you guys have been able to get it all sold? Yes not at all.
Matter fact we're improving our pricing now.
I think the last couple months we've seen a big increase in their ability to take the oil and they're interested in locking up long-term supply.
We see it a very good improving marketing area for us.
We're located in kind of the center of the Eagle Ford here.
And we really have very little gas to process and we've had -- we're hooking up some of our wells and getting that gas processed now without any problem.
But we really aren't going to produce a lot of gas in our program from our program there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess in the Haynesville you guys talked about $8 million well cost.
Just wanted to clarify a couple of things.
Is there any well costs when you're actually doing pad drilling there? Leo it's Mark.
That's correct.
That's development well cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just to clarify.
In one of your other comments I guess did you guys -- if I heard you correctly said that you're not really going to be pad drilling in 2012 more just moving the rig around to hold acreage.
Is that right? That's correct.
Leo we've got a few leases that we've got a drill a well or 2 a year on so we're going to move the one rig around it.
It's really difficult to do this full section development with 1 rig because if you put it in there you're looking at completing one time a year.
We’re going to forgo that until prices allow us to move more rigs in and then drill it more efficiently.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what type of price do you think is reasonable or you could go more towards a multi-rig program with pad drilling there in the Haynesville? We'll have a gas price probably north of $5.
It's twofold: one provide us the cash flow that we want to invest in here.
But even with higher cash flow we'll have to evaluate our return opportunities.
And so we might -- if we had higher gas prices we may add a rig to the Eagle Ford program versus the Haynesville just based on the ability to have a higher return.
We have no real requirements to do other than what we're doing.
We really don't have any requirements to keep our acreage intact.
So we have no drilling obligations.
So we're drilling -- 100% of the Haynesville will be drilled for return.
So we just evaluated our return opportunities based on the cash flow we have available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys talked about going from 3 rigs in the Haynesville to one is that kind of happening in the next couple of months? Can you just give us an indication of timing on that? Yes Leo.
That's in January and February.
We'll be  releasing those rigs or redeploying them if we have a new opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions one on the Haynesville.
With your rigs sort of -- even though your rig count is coming down your backlog is going up.
Is that just related to the large pad drilling you're doing? Or is there anything else going on there? Yes Amir.
This is Mark.
That's all because we're drilling that 10-well section.
All of our operated backlog if you will is because we have to get all the wells drilled before we frac them in December.
The other is just there's a -- especially on the gross well count there's a lot of activity and it's very low working interest.
So it kind of looks big on a gross well count but doesn't affect the net very much.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so it sounds like you should be caught up on the carryovers by the end of '12 on the completion side? That's probably correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us a rough sense on how much of the 8% to 12% growth next year is due to carryovers from '11 versus sort of new drilling? I don't think -- we could look at that and get back to you.
I don't think we have a number off the top of our head.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to the previous question here in terms of what gas price would you add additional rigs and lock it in on the hedging side for the commodity.
You mentioned $5 but then you also mentioned that incrementally you would rather add to the Eagle Ford.
So just if oil stays at the current $80 level what gas price would you need to go back to drilling in the Haynesville? It's hard to look ahead of that but I mean clearly when we have over $5 gas we do like the returns in the Haynesville program and we would have a lot more cash flow to work with potentially if we would have almost another $100 million which should support a whole rig in the Haynesville.
And we'd raise our growth profile a lot if we ran another rig in the Haynesville.
That's obviously a very important number $5 for us to take a hard look at it.
Anything north of $5 is very strong.
I think there is a point where the gas projects would be equally attractive to the oil projects.
At a very high $5 maybe $6 gas price then maybe it does switch over and say "Well now our return is better in the Haynesville." Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you thinking of adding any hedges on the oil side given the -- using the same thought process as you incrementally add the rigs into the Eagle Ford heading into '12? We are looking at that.
I think we'd like to get -- of course make sure we have a stable -where we could get very comfortable with what we're ultimate priced off of because we don't want to have an ineffective hedge or be tied into WTI when it's still under -- it's having less of a benchmark for our area there.
So I think that's -- we're working on that to lock in our marketing arrangements and then we have some target prices.
And so we probably -- with acreage acquisitions we closed in October we do have some drillings we need to do in the Eagle Ford more so than in the Haynesville so we wouldn't mind trying to protect some of that required drilling in the Eagle Ford with some hedges and market prices are there already to provide really good returns for that program.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on Leo's question a little back again kind on the Jupe NWR acreage that you said was like 5 000 net acres so I guess just a little bit less than 20% of your acreage.
I'm trying to get a sense of -- since there's not going to be anything drilled on that area based on Mark's comment in 2012 sort of what do lease expirations look like on that block? John this is Mark.
I think those leases do have a 2013 expiration.
So we'll look at it during the year in 2012 and then decide if we want to work on extending or letting that acreage go.
A lot will depend on the offset drilling and how the Jupe acts once we have it stabilized.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question for Roland.
I'm trying to reconcile -- I apologize if I miss this.
I'm trying to reconcile the amount of money that's been spent to this point after including -- on acreage acquisitions including the 6 000 acres you picked up in October that wasn't included in the slide you'll have on the $53 million notes spent through the first 3 quarters.
So I’m just trying to get a sense of the $125 million that you'd say that's for acreage acquisitions in 2011 is that how much has been spent? Or there's still leftover amount that you're just setting aside on other acreage you're trying to pick up? No that has not all been spent.
So we still have a fair budgeted what we would hope to try to pick up before the end of the year.
So we might not spend all of that total $125 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Roland how much was spent on the 2 transactions on the 6 000 acres you've picked up? For the 6 000 acres I think we spent about $40 million.
They roughly cost between $6 000 and $7 000 an acre.
And so it's around $40 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's...
A large part of that yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So based on your current acreage budget you'll increase for the rest you've targeted another roughly $30 million or so for additional acreage you're hopeful to pick up? That's right.
That's pretty close.
And then remember of that amount that we spent $24 million of that amount really is just going to be an obligation to pay over the next 2 years.
So it wasn't cash but it's a part of the acreage we picked up 75% of the consideration was in the form of paying their drilling costs like drilling carry.
We did in those numbers too.
There are no further questions at this time.
We will now turn the call back over to the presenters.
All right.
Just in closing again we did -- we had strong financial results.
Our costs were down.
We've got a strong balance sheet.
We've kind of given you a glimpse of 2012.
There should be a 10% production growth or more.
It should have a greater financial impact on our bottom line in 2012 because it is geared toward oil.
We're reducing the Haynesville rig count as Mark said from 3 to 2 to 1.
We should have one rig by maybe in late January February 2012 drilling Haynesville wells.
And now I think what you haven't seen which I would've liked to had given you a preview on are the 5 Eagle Ford wells in McMullen County that are in various stages of completion.
So you know they're in McMullen you know they are better acreage position and you know they're in various stages of completion.
So once that -- I think once you see that I think you'll be pleased with the program.
And historically all of you had followed us for years and years and years you know that we wouldn't be adding acreage in a play if we didn't think the play was quality.
We did think this is quality.
And I think Mark could tell you that the more we drill here the more comfort we have with the program.
And we think that our acreage we'd probably drill the well over 100 acres in Eagle Ford.
So with that again thank you.
Those are great questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Comstock Resources Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeremy and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Jay Allison President and CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Jeremy thank you and thank you for all those that are attending the conference call.
We changed up the format a little bit.
Traditionally we'd put our results out at the end of the day and then we would distribute [ph] with analysts whatever and then we would have the conference call the next morning.
I think this format might serve us better.
We are flying to a conference tomorrow and we'll have 24 meetings on Tuesday Wednesday so that's why we changed this format.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Comstock Resources Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you will find a presentation entitled Fourth Quarter 2011 Results.
I am Jay Allison President of Comstock.
And with me this morning is Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our VP of Operations.
During this call we will review our 2011 fourth quarter financial and operating results report on the results of our 2011 drilling program and discuss our plans and outlook for 2012.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentations and note that our discussion today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
The 2011 highlights.
Please refer to Page 3 of the presentation where we summarize the highlights of 2011.
In 2011 we had a very strong production growth with production increasing 31% over 2010.
The successful Haynesville shale program drove much of the production gains while the Eagle Ford shale program is allowing us to increase our oil production which made up 16% of our production on the last day of the year as compared to only 4% on the first day of 2011.
We had strong growth in our financial results in 2011 despite the 10% drop in natural gas prices by increasing production and lowering our operating cost.
Revenues in 2011 were up 24% to $434 million.
EBITDAX was up 35% to $336 million and operating cash flow was also up 35% increasing to $298 million or $6.25 per share.
We had a loss of $33 million in 2011 due to property impairments that we had which totaled $46 million after tax.
We had very strong results in our 2011 drilling program.
We drilled 87 successful wells including 62 Haynesville shale wells and 20 Eagle Ford shale wells.
The drilling program was one of the drivers of our 25% growth in proved reserves that we achieved in 2011.
It added 228 Bcfe of new reserves and increased our proved developed reserves by 170 Bcfe.
We ended 2011 by closing an acquisition that established a new core area in the oil-rich Permian basin.
As we have shifted most of our resources this year to growing our oil production this acquisition gives us a low-risk vertical drilling program to complement our successful Eagle Ford shale program in South Texas.
We also think we're very well positioned to be a significant player in the emerging horizontal Wolfcamp shale in the Permian basin.
I will turn it over to Roland to review the financial results for this quarter in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 4 we show our oil and gas production on a daily basis the last 4 years and we also separate it by operating region.
Production from the Haynesville shale program on the chart is shown in blue and now we're showing the contribution from our Eagle Ford program in yellow.
In the fourth quarter of this year our production averaged 277 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day 48% increase over the fourth quarter of last year but about 3% lower than production in the third quarter of this year.
Oil production of 3 800 barrels per day in the fourth quarter was up 78% from the third quarter.
And oil now makes up 8% of our total production as compared to only 4% in the previous 3 quarters.
Eagle Ford averaged 20 million per day in the fourth quarter as compared to about only 9 million a day in the third quarter of this year.
On December 31 we estimate that oil made up 16% of total production which we put in the press release when taking into account the Permian properties that we closed on on December 29.
Our Haynesville production in the quarter decreased 184 million per day as compared to the 200 million a day we had in the prior quarter because we had very little completion activity in the fourth quarter.
Next quarter we expect our Haynesville production to increase as we're completing the 14 wells that we carried over from last year.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells decreased slightly in the quarter to 37 million per day.
In the South Texan-- the South Texas region when you exclude the Eagle Ford also decreased slightly to 29 million per day and our other regions remained unchanged at 7 million per day.
Looking to this year we believe production will come in between 106 and 110 Bcfe in 2012 which is 11% to 15% higher than 2011's production.
More importantly we estimate that 14% to 16% of 2012's production will be oil that's compared to only 5% in 2011.
This will give us stronger revenue growth in 2012 than we had in 2011.
Oil prices continued to be very strong in the fourth quarter which we cover on Slide 5.
Our realized average oil price increased 34% in the fourth quarter of 2011 to $100.18 per barrel as compared to $74.75 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For all of 2011 our average oil price was $95.73 which was 40% higher than our average oil price of $68.35 in 2010.
Our realized oil prices in the fourth quarter averaged 107% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price.
Improvements to our Eagle Ford differentials account for this premium to WTI.
Our Eagle Ford oil is being priced more on the Louisiana Gulf Coast market than it is to the WTI index prices.
And then as the Brent prices and WTI come back closer together we expect this premium will come down in future quarters.
Natural gas prices continue to slide in the quarter as shown on Slide 6.
Our average gas price decreased 9% in the fourth quarter to $3.40 per Mcf as compared to $3.73 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For all of 2011 our average gas price decreased 10% to $3.91 per Mcf as compared to $4.35 per Mcf in 2010.
Our realized gas price is averaging 96% to 97% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price index.
On Slide 7 we cover our oil and gas sales.
Driven by the 48% production increase and a higher oil compensation our sales increased 58% to $114 million in the fourth quarter.
For all of 2011 our sales increased 24% to $434 million that's compared to $349 million in 2010 as weaker natural gas prices offset some of the 31% production increase we achieved in 2011.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX in the fourth quarter increased by 75% to $90 million as shown on Slide 8.
For all of 2011 EBITDAX increased 35% to $336 million.
Slide 9 covers our operating cash flow.
Stronger revenues and lower per-unit cost caused our operating cash flow for the quarter to increase 75% to $79 million.
That's compared to the $45 million we had in the fourth quarter of 2010.
In 2011 operating cash flow totaled $298 million which was 35% higher than our cash flow of $220 million in 2010.
On Slide 10 we outline our earnings.
We reported a net loss of $41.1 million or $0.89 per share as compared to the net loss we had of $20 million -- $20.6 million or $0.45 per share in the last quarter of 2010.
The fourth quarter results include a $39.5 million after-tax impairment charge which makes up $0.86 of the $0.89 loss in the quarter.
We also had a gain of $2.9 million or $1.9 million after tax or $0.04 per share on the sale of our marketable securities.
Excluding these items our loss would have been $0.07 per share this quarter.
For the year 2011 we reported a net loss of $33.5 million or $0.73 per share that's compared to a net loss of $19.6 million or $0.43 per share in 2010.
The 2011 annual financial results include several unusual items: a charge of $1.1 million or $0.7 million after tax or $0.02 per share related to the early redemption of our 2012 senior notes; impairments of $70.6 million or $45.9 million after tax or $1 per share; and a significant gain on the sales of marketable securities of $35.1 million $22.8 million after tax or $0.50 per share.
Without these items the net loss for the year would have been $0.21 per share.
On Slide 11 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced for the last 2 years by quarter.
Our lifting costs are comprised of 3 elements: production taxes transportation costs and then other field-level operating cost.
Our total lifting cost continued to improve falling to $0.77 per Mcfe this quarter as compared to $1.02 per Mcfe in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $0.79 per Mcfe in the previous quarter.
Production taxes this quarter were $0.06 per Mcfe and our transportation averaged $0.32 this quarter.
Field operating costs averaged $0.39 this quarter as compared to $0.71 in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $0.47 in the third quarter of this year.
Higher production rates combined with the absence of the high-cost properties we sold in the fourth quarter of last year have allowed us to achieve the lower lifting rates in 2011.
The fourth quarter lifting rate was also benefited by certain ad valorem tax credits which lowered the rate by about $0.08 per Mcfe.
On Slide 12 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our G&amp;A cost decreased to $0.20 per Mcfe in the fourth quarter as compared to $0.23 per Mcfe in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $0.18 per Mcfe in the previous quarter.
The improvement is due to our higher production levels combined with lower cost overall in 2011.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 13.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the fourth quarter increased to $3.07 per Mcfe from our $2.96 rate in the third quarter of 2011 and from the $2.91 rate in the last quarter of 2010.
The increase this quarter is due to higher production from our Eagle Ford properties which have a higher DD&amp;A rate than the Haynesville properties.
On Slide 14 we detail our drilling expenditures made in 2011 as compared to 2010.
We spent $573 million in 2011 on drilling activities as compared to $399 million that was spent in 2010.
We spent $368 million in our East Texas-North Louisiana region with $203 million in our Eagle Ford program in South Texas and then just $2 million in our other regions.
These amounts do not include the $219 million that we spent to acquire proved properties through acquisitions and the $256 million we spent on purchasing exploratory acreage.
We have a slide on our proved reserves and finding costs on Page 15 of the presentation.
Our proved reserves at the end of 2011 were estimated at 1.3 Tcfe compared to 1.1 Tcfe at the end of 2010.
At the end of the year our reserves were 85% natural gas and 15% were oil as compared to only 2% of our reserves being oil at the end of 2010.
We operate 88% of our proved reserve base.
And our 2011 drilling program combined with our Permian Basin acquisition allowed us to increase our proved reserve base by 25% in 2011 and also replaced 372% of our 2011 production of 96 Bcfe.
The drilling program added 228 Bcfe reserves with 140 of that related to the Haynesville shale program and then about 10.6 million barrels coming from our Eagle Ford shale program.
We also had a small downward revision of 36 Bcfe off of last year's reserve base.
We spent $573 million on exploration development activities in 2011 and then we spent another $219 million to acquire proved reserves for a total of $792 million which relate to our 2011 reserve additions.
Our finding costs excluding the amount we spent on exploratory acreage calculates at $2.23 per Mcfe.
Also our drilling program in 2011 added 170 Bcfe to our proved developed reserves which increased 15% over proved developed reserves at the end of 2010.
Slide 16 recaps our balance sheet at the end of last year.
We had $8 million in cash and $48 million in marketable securities on hand which represent the 1.8 million shares we hold in Stone Energy.
We also had a total of $1.2 billion of total debt comprised of $300 million of our 7 3/4% senior notes $297 million of our 8 3/8% senior notes and $600 million outstanding under our revolving bank credit facility.
On December 29th in connection with the acquisition we made in the Permian basin the borrowing base for our bank credit facility was increased to $700 million.
$610 million of the borrowing base is based on the value of our producing reserves and $90 million of the borrowing base is available for 1 year.
At our next redetermination we expect our borrowing base to increase based on the growth we see in our proved producing reserves since our last bank review.
Overall our net debt made up 51% of our total capitalization at the end of 2011.
Referring to Slide 17 we want to point out that we plan to maintain a conservative financial profile given the extra acquisition debt that is now outstanding.
We have plans to sell certain non-core properties this year including certain oil and gas properties and our shares of Stone Energy.
These divestitures should generate proceeds of $150 million to $190 million to Comstock.
We've also implemented a hedging strategy to protect us from a decline in oil prices in the next 2 years.
And as we have shown recently we will maintain flexibility in what we plan to spend on this year's drilling program.
We recently cut back drilling activity to respond to the impact that the lower natural gas prices will have on our 2012 cash flow.
On Slide 18 we outlined our oil hedge position.
We have 4 000 barrels a day hedged at $99.17 per barrel in the first quarter of this year.
This position increases to 5 000 barrels a day at $99.53 for the next 3 quarters of the year.
In 2013 we currently have 2 000 barrels a day hedged at $100 per barrel.
We plan to continue to add to these hedged positions as the year progresses and we bring on more oil production with our drilling program.
I'll now turn it over to Mark Williams to provide an overview of the recently completed acquisition that we made and to update you on our operating activities.
Thank you Roland.
On Slide 19 we have an updated map of our holdings in the Haynesville shale play in North Louisiana and in East Texas.
You can see our acreage highlighted in blue.
We have increased our acreage to 96 000 gross acres and 82 000 net acres that we believe are prospective for Haynesville shale development.
With better natural gas prices and expected well spacing of 80 acres and an expected per-well recovery of 6 Bcfe per well our acreage could have 4.6 Tcfe of resource potential.
On Slide 7 -- on Slide 20 we also outlined our Bossier shale acreage and the base for the same acreage that's prospective for Haynesville is also prospective for the Bossier shale development which could add another 2.7 Tcfe of potential as shown on this slide.
On Slide 20 (sic) [Slide 21] we recap our activity in our East Texas-North Louisiana region for 2011.
Our activity in this region was primarily focused on developing our Haynesville and Bossier shale properties.
We drilled 64 wells 28.3 net in this region in the 6 different fields and all but 2 were Haynesville or Bossier shale wells.
And all of these wells were successful.
We completed 84 or 42.3 net of our Haynesville and Bossier shale wells in 2011.
The wells drilled and completed in 2011 were put on production at an average per-well initial production rate of 10.7 million cubic feet equivalent per day under our restricted choke program.
Since we have initiated our Haynesville shale program in 2008 we have now drilled a total of 180 wells and 105.6 net wells.
On Slide 22 we provide an update of our backlog both uncompleted Haynesville and Bossier shale wells.
We've been talking about this all year since late 2010 when we had the shortage of frac services.
As you can see in the fourth quarter the number of uncompleted wells decreased from 21 to 14 while the number of net wells increased slightly from 8.9 to 9.8.
And the main reason the net increase is because of our 10-well development project where it's ongoing.
Most of the remaining wells are scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of this year.
Given the current natural gas price we plan to move all our rigs out of this region by early March and focus for the remainder of this year on our Eagle Ford shale program in South Texas and our Wolfbone program in West Texas.
Going to Slide 23 we're going to discuss our South Texas region.
All of our South Texas activity in 2011 has been focused on our Eagle Ford program.
We drilled 20 Eagle Ford shale wells in 2011 and 19.2 net wells.
We have completed 17 of these wells and that's 17 net including a well drilled in 2010 which had an average per-well initial production rate of 820 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On Slide 24 we focus on our Eagle Ford shale play in South Texas.
We increased our holdings in the Eagle Ford in 2011 to 35 000 gross acres and 28 000 net acres.
And using a conservative 100-acre spacing assumption we believe our acreage which is all in the oil window of the Eagle Ford has the potential to recover 83 million barrels of oil equivalent net to our interest.
Slide 25 shows the results of the 19 wells which we have completed and which are currently producing.
Since our last update in early December we have completed an additional 4 wells.
The Gloria Wheeler "A" #1H was drilled to a vertical depth of 11 358 feet with a 6 725-foot lateral and was tested at an initial rate of 1 070 barrels of oil per day and 1.1 million cubic feet of natural gas per day or 1 254 BOE per day.
The Gloria Wheeler B #1 was drilled to a vertical depth of 10 908 feet with a 5 175-foot lateral and we tested this well at an initial rate of 916 barrels of oil per day and 1.0 million cubic feet of natural gas per day or 1 085 BOE per day.
The Donnell A #1H was drilled to a vertical depth of 9 404 feet with a 6 481-foot lateral.
This well was tested at an initial rate of 646 barrels of oil per day and 200 Mcf per day or 686 BOE per day.
The Cutter Creek #2H was drilled to a vertical depth of 10 013 feet with a 5 541-foot lateral.
This well was tested at an initial rate of 471 barrels of oil per day and 400 Mcf of natural gas per day or 541 BOE per day.
And as we've stated before all of these reported well results were obtained while following our restricted choke program where we manage the choke size and the pressure to improve our EURs.
Now I'll turn this over to Jay to discuss our -- oh okay he wants me to talk about it okay.
So next is on Slide 26 we're going to discuss we closed on the Eagle on the acquisition of the properties on Reeves County and West Texas from Eagle Oil &amp; Gas and certain of their partners on December 29.
We acquired 70 000 gross acres and 44 000 net acres in Reeves County Texas in the Delaware basin prospective for the Bone Spring-Wolfcamp development which we and everybody else are calling the Wolfbone play.
The acquisition included 35 producing wells 22.4 net wells and 4 wells that are -- that were in the process of being completed or 2.5 net wells to be completed.
Current net production is around 1 300 BOE per day.
The final adjusted purchase price was $345.5 million.
We allocated $201.7 million to the 25 200 MBOE of proved reserves we acquired and $143.8 million to exploration acreage undeveloped acreage.
We estimate that these properties have total resource potential of 178 million barrels of oil equivalent based on drilling 935 net vertical wells and we strongly feel there is additional upside in this acreage with horizontal development.
Slide 27 is a subsurface topographic view of our Wolfcamp formation with Comstock acreage shown in yellow.
As you can see the Eagle acreage is located in the bottom of the Delaware Basin on the West side of the Permian basin which is the optimal location for the basins that are hydrocarbons that we are targeting in the Wolfbone.
The primary Wolfbone section runs from about 10 000 feet to 11 500 feet in depth.
Also shown here on the east side of the Permian basin the Midland basin is our Gaines County exploration acreage which is located in the deeper part of the middle basin again in the lower part of the basin where it's optimal for basins that have hydrocarbons.
We own currently own about 11 000 net acres on in this exploration play and we'll be targeting the Wolfcamp shale at a depth of 10 000 to 11 000 feet.
Slide 28 shows a geologic cross-section from the Delaware Basin in the west to the Midland Basin in the East.
The Wolfbone and the Delaware Basin to the west is an emerging resource play and that's where our acreage is located.
As you can see it is equivalent to the Wolfberry play in the Midland Basin which is the Spraberry and Wolfcamp shales and this play is very active with significant vertical and horizontal development.
On Slide 29 we show Comstock's Permian basin acreage position with 90 000 gross acres and 55 000 net acres under lease.
As I've previously stated the Reeves County acreage provides over 900 vertical net vertical locations targeting the Wolfbone with 178 million barrels equivalent of research potential.
There is also horizontal development potential in the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations on that Reeves County acreage.
Now our Gaines County acreage to the northeast is primarily targeting the Wolfcamp shale and we expect this to be a horizontal play but we plan to drill a vertical well first to test the section and acquire as much information as possible.
Slide 30 shows the calculated ultimate recoveries of recently drilled wells in the Wolfbone play in and around our acreage.
As you can see our acreage has been largely de-risked and the results shown bracket our expected average EUR of just over 200 000 BOE per well.
And this was one of the key reasons we liked and targeted this acquisition because it was largely de-risked.
Slide 31 illustrates our 2012 drilling plans for Reeves County.
The current wells are shown in yellow and the 2012 scheduled wells are shown in red.
We plan to drill 43 gross wells and 33 net wells in 2012 on our Reeves County acreage.
Drilling and completion costs should range between $4 million and $4.5 million and our expected EURs are in the range of 180 000 to 250 000 BOE per well with 30-day IPs expected to be 150 to 300 BOE per day.
As I said before we are primarily targeting vertical Wolfbone completions at this time at a depth of 10 000 to 11 500 feet.
Okay Slide 32.
What I want to leave you with is where we think the Wolfbone play is going.
On this slide the various potential oil targets in Reeves County are shown on the left.
Primarily for us it's the Bone Spring and the Wolfcamp section.
Also shown are the potential completion types that we anticipate will be prospective on our acreage.
On the left side is a conventional vertical Wolfbone well showing the primary 1 500 feet of completion interval in green with the little green boxes where the completions would be and an additional 1 000 to 1 500 feet of completion potential in the upper Bone Spring shown with the little red boxes.
In addition to that we believe there are several horizontal targets in the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp that may significantly improve the economics of this play.
We have one horizontal Wolfcamp well scheduled this year and other operators in the area are actively pursuing horizontal opportunities in both the Bone Spring and the Wolfcamp.
The horizontal aspect of this play is just emerging so there is much science to be applied before it can be verified but we are very excited to have such a prime position in this basin.
Now I'll turn it over to back to Roland to go over our 2012 drilling program.
All right thanks Mark.
On Slide 33 we outlined what we expect to spend in 2012 on our drilling program.
So as Mark said with the continued weakness in natural gas prices which worsened in January compared to where that we thought they were in December we did recently reevaluate our drilling plans for 2012 to further deemphasize natural gas drilling and to reduce the overall drilling expenditures that we're going to incur in 2012.
So we're now down to 2 rigs drilling for natural gas in North Louisiana as compared to the 7 operated rigs we were running in 2010.
Last year we moved 2 of these rigs to our oil-focused Eagle Ford shales drilling program and we also released 3 rigs.
We plan to move the remaining 2 natural gas-directed rigs to our Permian properties in February and then also in early March of this year.
Our revised drilling plans now calls for us to spend approximately $458 million in 2012 which will draw 84 wells or 60.6 net wells as well as complete an additional 29 wells or 19.1 net wells that we drilled in 2011.
We'll spend $158.3 million to drill the 43 wells or 38.8 net wells that Mark talked about on our Delaware Basin properties in West Texas and then we'll also complete the 4 wells so the 2.5 net wells that were drilled before we completed the acquisition.
We'll spend $165.2 million in our South Texas region to drill 24 wells or 21.7 net wells in our Eagle Ford shale horizontal program in 2012 and $27.7 million to complete the 4 wells or 3.2 net wells that we drilled in 2011 in South Texas.
In the East Texas-North Louisiana operating region we'll spend the remaining $45.4 million to drill 17 wells but this is only 5.1 net wells and all of these will be Haynesville or Bossier shale wells.
Only 3 of these wells are operated wells that Comstock is drilling but the remaining of the net wells being just estimated wells that we think will be drilled by our -- other operators where we have a small interest in the units.
Our largest expenditure in this region will be the $61.4 million that we're spending here mostly in the first quarter to drill the wells that we drilled to complete the wells that we drilled in 2011.
So under the revised 2012 drilling plan that we've put forward here with in our press release we did a week or so ago 92% of the net wells that we're going to drill in 2012 will be oil wells and then 77% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
So now I'm going to turn it back over to Jay to kind of summarize our results.
So if you look at the 2012 outlook -- and again Mark thanks for going over again the transformational event that we've had in the acquisition of the Permian and also the Eagle Ford.
But then yes if you look at catalysts for transformational events I think toward the end of last year we demonstrated that we have those.
If you'd kind of take a capsule of 2011 in a paragraph before you get to 2012 2011 is history for the most part.
In 2011 we had very strong production growth: 31% over 2010; very strong oil production growth which made up 16% of oil production at year-end 2011 versus only 4% in the first half of 2011; we had strong growth in our financial results.
As Roland told you we increased production we lowered our operating costs.
Revenues were up 24% EBITDAX up 35% operating cash flows up 35%.
We had 25% production growth of proved reserves and our total cost structure continued to be among the lowest of the E&amp;P sector.
So now that that is for the most part history what about 2012 where are we? And if you look at Slide 34 despite the dismal outlook which we're aware of for natural gas prices or the very warm winter we're having we're more excited than we've ever been about the prospects for Comstock this year of 2012.
We expect the strong growth in our oil production will be more than offset -- will more than offset the lower natural gas prices to allow us to have higher revenues and cash flow and be a much more profitable company in 2012.
We expect oil to comprise 14% to 16% of 2012's production and over 20% of production at the end of the year.
Oil now makes up 15% of our proved reserve base compared to only 2% at the end of 2010.
92% of the net wells we will drill in 2012 will be oil wells and 77% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
We expect our total production to grow by 11% to 15% this year while all of the growth coming exclusively from higher-return oil drilling.
Our Eagle Ford shale program will be our largest growth engine this year in 2012.
The recently completed Permian acquisition established a new core area for us which is focused on oil and it adds a low-risk vertical oil-focused drilling program.
We see tremendous upside in future horizontal development in the emerging Wolfcamp shale.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
We plan on maintaining a conservative financial profile as Roland told you to improve our liquidity post the Permian acquisition which was in December.
We will reduce leverage this year with the asset divestitures that we have underway.
And we'll utilize an oil pricing strategy hedging strategy to protect the acquisition of our oil-focused drilling program.
Now for the rest of the call I'll take questions only from the research analysts who follow the stock so Jeremy we'll turn it back over to you for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> The one quick question the drilling budget do you all have a budget for what's not drilling.
I mean any leasehold estimates or for 2012? Yes this is Roland Brian.
No we really don't expect to spend any significant amount for leases in 2012.
We've really we did a lot of that in 2011 really have a lot of stuff on our plates so we have no leases expiring in 2012 so it's a...
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's the total budget the $458 million? Right.
Brian I think if you look at the Haynesville  Bossier we have say 140 000 net acres which 82 000 of that is Haynesville and 58 000 is Bossier and it's overlapping.
And we've got the 7.3 Tcfe of upside there as far as reserve potential.
We'll drill 3 net wells this year that we operate and that's it.
Come March we won't have any wells drilling for gas and all that will be held for 2012.
And maybe we have to drill a couple of wells in 2013 for that 140 000 net acres.
So in order to hold acreage it's a very nominal program this year and next year so it kind of inventory there.
We've put all that on the shelf so now what do you do? Well you have to have a couple rigs drilling for oil in the Eagle Ford which you've got 2 rigs now and if we could ramp up to 3 or 4 that would be good.
But in our budget we have 2 rigs and that answers your question that will hold that acreage.
And I think in the Permian we've got 2 rigs now we'll add a third and then a fourth.
And I think as the years go by we'll ramp that up to maybe a 6-rig 7-rig program but in order to hold acreage the rigs that we've told you we would use to drill wells on those 3 basins this year completely satisfies all of our 2012 obligations.
Research Division</strong> And the 10-well pad that in the Haynesville when do you all-- is that online or is it about to come online? When is that when should that come online? Brian this is Mark.
We have all the wells have been frac-ed.
1 of them is flowing back cleaning up.
The other 9 we're in the process of drilling out the frac plugs.
So we expect those to start coming online over the next 1.5 weeks 2 weeks to start cleaning them up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question.
Looking at the Eagle Ford I mean it looks like that central McMullen acreages you have has been very very impressive with the rates.
What are you all seeing kind of from Northern McMullen or even as you get north of McMullen versus the central portion? I mean what are you all seeing is there a cost difference? Is the rock not as good? What is the difference between that acreage? Brian generally as you go from north to south over here you get a little improvement in the rock quality but it's really a pressure difference.
The wells to the south the Swenson the Hill the Gloria Wheeler wells they have more reservoir pressure a little more energy so you get a higher IP.
What we have seen on our production declines though is even the wells kind of in the middle the Cutter Creek the Carlson the Donnell they don't IP as high but they EUR almost as high as the wells to the south so you get about the same amount of oil out you just don't get it out quite as fast.
And so that's really the difference in the as you go from north to south.
Research Division</strong> And if you had to take in over under on that the 400 000 EUR what would you kind of excavate? For us I think on a weighted average we're -- it's over.
We feel that's a good conservative weighted-average type curve.
But everything so far we look at on our wells it's been meeting or exceeding our type curves.
I think to the south Brian you're going to get to the plus 400 000.
To the north and you might get a little less than that but I don't know that you'd get that much less mainly because of what Mark has said to you given our higher IP to the south that your decline rates are a little steeper to the south than it is to the north.
Our next question comes from Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Question on the Permian.
The 2 rigs are currently drilling the Wolfbone I assume.
Is the plan to take the other 2 rigs to and just drill Wolfbone as well? And at what point do you think you'll start to or when do you think you'll drill your horizontal Wolfcamp? Ron this is Mark.
We have the other 2 rigs that we're moving from the Haynesville 1 of them is in the process of rigging up in West Texas.
The other 1 will move in about the 1st of March.
And they are all scheduled to drill vertical Wolfbones this well except right now we have one horizontal well scheduled in the second quarter.
And then we're going to look at those results and we're doing a lot of science: microseismic coring additional logging some modeling.
And so as we gain this information we'll build our horizontal program kind of out of our vertical program but we just aren't quite ready to science-wise to do that yet.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And when you look at the offset operator activity and with the prior drilling programs in your 2012 plans it looks like almost all your acreage is going to be de-risked from a Wolfbone standpoint.
Have any of the offset operators started testing the horizontal Wolfcamp offsetting you in Reeves? Not in our immediate area.
There's activity just across the river in Ward County.
It's mostly third Bone Spring but that's right at the top of the Wolfcamp and we think that's really a Wolfcamp frac-ing.
Also to the northwest of us kind of along around our farthest northwest acreage Petrohawk is very active and they've but they've just started.
We don't have any results from that yet.
I think they're testing various intervals in the section.
Several of the other independent operators around us are talking about doing this but nobody has drilled one yet.
They're really vertical players and they're just they're going to step out into it here shortly but they haven't done it yet.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you refresh our memory in terms of what agreements you have in place from a completion standpoint both for the Eagle Ford and the Permian and the status of those contracts? Just given all the talk on pressure pumping prices coming down what kind of outlook do you have on that cost side? On the Eagle Ford we used our Haynesville crew and we made a deal to rotate that crew back and forth to cover the Eagle Ford and the Haynesville.
And so that contract is for this year it actually runs out in June at the end of June with Schlumberger.
It adjusts quarterly to market conditions.
In West Texas we don't have a contract signed yet.
We're working on building our schedule.
We've talked to various service providers.
I'm very encouraged: There's more interest in capacity than I we even thought there might be out there seem like we've got a good number of providers that are very interested in the work at this point.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of overall savings in terms of a well cost in the Eagle Ford what do you expect the potential savings on the drill cost to be? As far as just going forward? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Going forward right given the pricing pressure.
We think we'd get 10% to 20% on our frac cost going forward as more people move their crews down there and that supply outruns the demand.
And then the one of the largest savings for us is going to be when we really go to pad drilling to full development.
We've seen savings in the $0.5 million to $1 million per well in range in our Haynesville and we expect those same types of savings to occur in the Eagle Ford.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And what are you expecting your typical what is your typical Eagle Ford well costing right now? They're around $8.5 million now.
So in development mode I think we're looking at a in the $7.5 million range.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Roland you mentioned the pricing differentials or the oil realizations for your Eagle Ford productions are you selling all of that on spot? It sounds like you're getting Gulf Coast pricing.
Do you have marketing arrangements in place? And prospectively how much -- do you think it can come back to where you've been averaging 100% 101% of WTI or do you think it'll be somewhere between that and 107% that you had there in the fourth quarter? Well I think that the pricing in the Eagle Ford is going to be in the future is going to be more tied to Gulf Coast Louisiana Gulf Coast-type pricing because that's where the oil is all going and that's where the new marketing arrangements will be.
Now the relationship of those price index prices to WTI is all based on how what happens to those indexes.
They've tightened up a lot from the huge disconnect they had in especially early fourth quarter.
So if that trend continues and they don't separate back apart then we wouldn't -- we would expect our Eagle Ford oil production to still be at a lower premium to WTI but maybe not as large as the $6-per-barrel type premium we were getting in the fourth quarter.
Thank you Ron.
Ron as far as service completion providers I mean we are working with our service provider in the Eagle Ford to maybe come down and do some wells if there's not a lot of wells in the Permian.
And their relationship carries to a different region too as you know.
And our next question comes from Kim Pacanovsky with MLV and Company.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> How many wells do you have 90-day rates on now in the Eagle Ford? Oh gosh Kim probably about 10 or 12 but I don't have 90-day rates in front of me.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm just curious if they came in where you had anticipated and if you take the Jupe out of the picture what your lowest IRR at a $90 price or $100 price is whatever number you might happen to have if you have a number like that off the top of your head.
Yes I don't have what the -- I'm sure that our NWR well would be our lowest IRR but I don't have that number in front of me.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay could I get that later after the call? Just curious.
I'm just curious what the worst well is as we look at the acreage...
Let's talk about the best well Kim.
We Kim we will get that to you.
That's a great question.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
Yes $100 oil plus the premium makes a lot of them pretty good.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sure.
And then in Gaines County and the exploration program there can you just detail a timeline of what you're going to do when there? And also what other operators are near you and how far away and what kind of results they've seen? Kim as far as other operators this is really a little exploration play and any activity in the near vicinity of us.
All the activity would be Wolfberry but it would be 10 to 20 miles to the south.
And so it's really an exploration play based on log properties and our knowledge of what we like to see in a shale play.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and when will you be drilling your first well there? We haven't finalized anything.
We may discuss drilling one this year in place of one of our Reeves County wells but we don't need to.
With all these all these lease are really fresh and so we don't know that we really need to go over there and drill one.
We've got a big [indiscernible]owner and we wanted to we'd want to talk about a deal with and kind of run the game and making sure we own all the leases that we want to own before we go forward with drilling.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's your tolerance for hedging? I was pleased to see some of these oil hedges coming in.
What how high of a percentage of the oil production do you think that you're going to hedge if you have opportunities for attractive prices? Kim this is Roland.
Well I think we'll be hedging between 50% to 75% of our oil volumes going forward and...
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Wow this is like the new you.
Well we our -- as you look at if you look at our 2012 business plan we're most vulnerable to oil prices falling off right but we think-- they think it's gas prices but gas prices are already bad.
We're not drilling hardly any gas wells.
And they have a more limited impact to the gas prices to think we'll come back in the long run that the for oil prices to drop.
And we made a large acquisition an oil acquisition in the Eagle Ford program and so we definitely want to protect that part and let that part of the company grow.
We're seeing just with current prices out there now oil will make up 50% of our entire revenues this year and that's a very dramatic change from when it only made up in 2011 it was only 18% of our revenues.
The future for the company in the next 2 years while gas is out a balance is oil and we'll aggressively protect it especially when we can lock in this near-$100-plus area because that's very strong returns for the all of our programs.
Even maybe even the far-north Eagle Ford wells would be very good at this kind of price.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
Well that's great.
And what is the current Eagle Ford production running today do you have a number on that? I didn't hear it unless I missed it.
Kim gross it's about 6 000 or -- between 6 000 and 7 000 barrels per day.
So about between 5 000 and 6 000...
Take about yes-- 75% of that to get closer to our net yes.
Thank you Kim.
I think you'll be pleased with this how we are at $90 when we get that for the 10 to 12 Eagle Ford wells that have been producing for 90 days.
And on the Gaines County again over a year ago we had been acquiring acreage in Gaines County.
And then once we were able to acquire the bigger footprint in the Permian I mean we disclosed that we had added the Gaines County.
And then if you look at our balance sheet what we're trying not to do is overspend our operating cash flow plus the divestitures that we'll have this year.
That's why when you ask Mark we may drill a well in Gaines County.
Those leases are new they're 3-plus-year leases so we don't have to drill any wells this year in Gaines.
It would be nice if we could drill 1 or 2 that would be vertical wells.
And then like Mark said you can -- there's a little bit of science to that.
But there is a big mineral owner and the big mineral owner would participate in then maybe we could have a pretty big program there.
But our goal is to continue to stay financially sound as you know.
And then as far as the hedging your comment we always try to hedge if we have a big acquisition.
And a $340-some-odd million acquisition at the Permian even though it was  1 300-plus barrels of net oil a day that's a big acquisition.
So hopefully you can see that we demonstrate that to protect that acquisition and even to make the acreage a little more valuable to the north and Eagle Ford we go ahead and put these hedges in.
And if oil stays up and our oil production continues to grow which we expect then we'll continue to add hedges on.
So hopefully that will give the market some comfort in what we're doing.
And our next question comes from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Just referring to Slide 31 in your corporate presentation in today's presentation which illustrates the locations of wells you will drill this year in Reeves County.
I noticed the 2 northernmost wells that may be off a little bit outside of the concentrated area.
Any thoughts on what your expectations are for those 2 wells and the amount of surrounding acreage involved in those or approximately to those 2 wells and maybe the timing of those results? Dan I'm not really sure when those 2 wells are scheduled.
I'll tell you they're sometime this year but I'm not going to guarantee when.
As far as expected results we haven't seen much change in rock properties going north looking at logs and other activity so we really expect them to perform very similarly to the other acreage that we have.
Okay.
And then staying in Reeves County what development spacing will you test this year? We really don't have any plans this year to test a development spacing.
Our drilling program in Reeves is focused on maintaining our lease schedule and so it's really spread you can look at it it's really spread out.
Okay very good.
And then just turning to the subject of natural gas maybe one that all would like to forget I guess.
But if we will look at 12-month strip pricing today it's closer to $3 per MMBTU versus say $4 per MMBTU.
What might that mean for reserve bookings going forward as much of your proved reserves are still weighted toward natural gas? And any thoughts on what impact that might have on your redetermination regarding your own bank borrowing base and how that might be offset by reserve bookings associated with oil and your liquids assets? Well I think that Dan if you're looking at especially SEC reserves the way that that's calculated kind of a 12-month historical price that is if those low prices stay in effect I mean I think that the undeveloped gas reserves will be the most challenged to still be economic.
I think that the positives are that we've seen some big reductions in total development costs for those type reserves that may help them stay economic at the price if the price maybe boost down on the SEC side.
The but a lot of the -- of course it doesn't really have any impact on the developed producing reserves because the lifting costs are so low on those type properties.
Okay great.
And then 2 quickly 2 modeling questions here.
I noticed that LOE lifting cost continued to trend lower at least on a per-unit basis.
What should we expect during the next say 12 18 months as more oil and liquids hit the P&amp;L? The we'll see especially production taxes which is where the oil has a much higher production tax rate on a unit of production because a lot of our natural gas qualifies for some exemptions or relief for tight gas in Texas and Louisiana and the oil does not.
So we do expect to see our lifting cost rates which have dropped below in this quarter below $0.80 per Mcfe trend up a little bit more so in the second half of 2012 because in the first half we still have some growth in the gas side that will come through.
So in the second half of 2012 we would expect to be averaging for all of them lifting costs which we would count production taxes the direct field cost and transportation will be a little over potentially a little over $1 or so per Mcfe in the second half of the year.
With most of that change coming in the production tax side.
Right okay great.
And then one last one turning to the Eagle Ford and the EUR of 400 MBOE.
What is the B factor behind that cumulative production estimate? Dan I believe it's about 1.2.
I didn't run reserves but I'm pretty sure it's the B factor is around 1.2 1.1 and 1.2.
Our next question comes from Jack Aydin with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions are answered.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys in the Delaware Basin obviously you guys announced the acquisition a couple of months back.
Have you guys not had any completed wells during the last couple months? Leo we've got 2 but they just they're still flowing back and they haven't IP-ed yet.
We really took it over December 29.
We closed on the 29th.
So we have 2 we frac-ed late in January but they're just not cleaned up and flowing through.
Leo it takes about 30 days to drill 1 of these wells they're vertical.
I mean you would go down to again the pay goes anywhere from 10 000 to 11 500 feet.
And then you probably have 10 days to move [ph] time.
So we're saying it from well to well it's about 40 45 days as to spud to spud.
So we closed this on the 29th took it over.
We kept the 2 rigs.
In fact we changed out 1 of the 2 rigs and we'll move up again a third rig in and a fourth rig in in the next couple months and we've completed those 2.
That's all we could do in the 35 days or so.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your oil percentage you guys talked about 14% to 16% oil in 2012.
And then you guys kind of also said that your year end '11 percentage was around 16% oil.
Could you just kind of walk us through the math there? I guess I thought that maybe you would be a little bit higher on average this year.
I think Leo -- this is Roland.
In the fourth quarter our gas production was down a little bit and we had a lot of -- of course we made an acquisition on the 29th and had some new Eagle Ford wells coming on in late December.
So I think that that number was the actual number on that date.
But then as the gas production grows some in the next 2 quarters it'll just push that percentage down based on that.
But now in the second half of the year where the gas is no longer growing that's when the oil percentage of the company probably starts to exceed that number.
It's all relative on kind of how you're measuring it.
Yes the second quarter of this year will probably be our peak production for gas.
Right.
And we it will be peaking.
It hasn't peaked yet so that's the...
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of Eagle Ford you guys talked about 24 wells this year in your program.
How many of those are going to be on pad drilling? Really not any.
If we have a pad it's only because we're drilling in opposite directions.
We have I think there's 3 of those pads so there's 6 of the wells of the 24 that we're drilling 2 different units in opposite directions from one location.
But we're not doing any what I'd call development where you're drilling multiple wells in the same unit from one pad.
We're using the 2 rigs Leo this year just to hold acreage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess I mean you guys talked about $8.5 million current well costs but then you kind of said you thought you'd average sort of closer to $7.5 million but it doesn't sound like you're doing a lot here on pads which seems like the bulk of the savings.
So I mean really is most of the savings you expect this year then just going to be from lower service costs? Lower service costs and improved efficiency.
But really that's more of an all-in average well from here to the end of the program.
When we get them all drilled it's going to be more like that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the Wolfcamp you guys obviously want to drill a horizontal well here in the Delaware Basin.
What's got you particularly excited about that? I guess you said that there weren't really any offset wells nearby that you guys are aware of so what's the why is that kind of a high priority for you here? Leo when we looked at this deal the first thing we saw were multiple shale intervals that looked very appealing for horizontal development.
And they have the rock properties the porosity the thickness the continuity that would be similar to our Haynesville or our Eagle Ford and we saw more than one.
So we say "Wow that this needs to be developed as a horizontal play." It's just hasn't been done yet because the players that were in the area were vertical players and they were being successful drilling the wells vertically.
It's also much easier to put your units together to stay ahead of your lease schedule doing vertical wells than it is horizontal wells so we'll still have a lot of that holding our acreage and testing areas.
And you can't develop the whole vertical section with a horizontal lateral so we'll still have the need for a lot of vertical wells also.
But as soon as we get the our comfort factor on which interval we want to target then we do plan on ramping up the horizontal program.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and what you think a well cost would be there? It construction-wise it's going to be very similar to the Eagle Ford.
It will take a little bit longer to drill but some of the other costs like surface locations and other things like that are going to be less expensive.
So I think it's going to be very similar to our Eagle Ford cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess lastly what's the timing in your asset sale program here? Leo this is Roland.
We expect to complete most of these asset sales by early second quarter.
Our next question comes from John Freeman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The only questions I had on in the Eagle Ford.
The I believe the only area that you all haven't drilled on yet over your acreage is that southeastern portion of Atascosa.
Is there any plan to drill that this year? We have drilled one well John and that we haven't completed yet.
And we I think we have 6 more scheduled to drill there in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just the last question I had: In that central McMullen area where you all had really strong results can you remind me what's the acreage number there? I think John we have about 8 000 acres in that area.
Our next question comes from Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
I guess first in the Eagle Ford I'm just curious a little more detail maybe on the restricted rate program and how hard you're choking those back and also just what sort of variance on pressures you're seeing across north to south but particularly as it relates to decline curves.
I mean are you seeing means with different decline curves from north to south and I guess what are your thoughts on that? As far as the "choke back" program we are we have a very standard program now so we can compare well to well and they flow them on a certain size choke for a certain number of hours or days and we end up on a 16.
That's so we don't we're not going above a 16/64 inch choke.
So I don't have the exact schedule with me our engineers worked it up and that's how we're doing it.
We're very pleased with the result.
We still only have one well in artificial lift and we think that's part of the reason that we've been so successful flowing these wells naturally.
It's because we don't pull them real hard.
And as far as pressures go on the very north end the Donnell and the Carlson they'll flow they will come down to about 2 000 pounds pretty quickly.
And on the south end in the Hill and Gloria Wheelers those wells are between 3 500 and 4 000 pounds initially and then they will just slowly decline from there.
At decline curves I think we're using 5 different decline curves or type curves depending on which acreage but they're not that different.
I mean I could say that the EURs are pretty similar maybe ranging from 375 000 up to 450 000.
It's almost surprising to me even that these lower-IP wells do so well what they do.
They and then typically they're treading above our type curves.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just to follow up a little bit on Leo's question.
On the cost front I mean it sounds it seems like it's also just on those uncompleted wells you had what 3.2 wells net it's like 28 million-ish.
It's quite a bit per well.
Is there something going on in those particular wells? I guess why are the completions running so high on those? I think what happened is there's never a great cutoff between years between the budgets.
And with all the rigs going to [ph] stop on December 31 and it's all ongoing so and capturing when a well is actually counted is there's -- that accounts for those differences.
So I'm looking at them on a per-well number.
It's not really that meaningful so...
Research Division</strong> How many do you expect to have completed and tied in in 2012 I guess in the Eagle Ford that's tied into sales? We had what do we have? 19 on our list so far.
And then we're going to drill 24 and we should have all but maybe 3 of those completed and tied in.
So that's about 40 about 40 producing by year end especially now that we're not -- before we were using the same completion crew in the Haynesville and the Eagle Ford program.
And I think that cost kind of a some wells to stack up in both programs kind of waiting for the opportune time to move back and forth.
With the Haynesville program wrapping up I think we'll see the Eagle Ford wells completed more closely after they're drilled in going forward.
So like Mark said we'll complete most of the wells drilled in 2012 in '12 plus any carryover from '11.
The Schlumberger swing crew they've been out of the Eagle Ford they've been over the Haynesville Bossier completing the 9 or 10 wells there.
They'll swing back over this month then they'll start completing these Eagle Ford wells.
And I think your numbers are will be a little bit better.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then I guess the only last thing I had is I'm just kind of curious as you look at your portfolio as a whole now you've got clearly some good options on the oil front.
It might be a ways off and not on everyone's radar but I guess what price would get you to start swinging capital back towards gas? I mean we know kind of  where the Haynesville maybe becomes economic but I'm assuming there's some price above and beyond that to actually bring capital away from your oil projects at this point.
Any thoughts on that or...
I think first we we're committed to maintaining a conservative financial profile.
I mean we need to see where we are in our balance sheet.
Our debt-to-cap needs to be reduced and we need to monetize some of the Stone shares and we need to divest to some non-core properties.
And then we need I think in 2012 we need to really understand the value of the Permian that we bought including a horizontal well or so.
And I think our value from the 2 oil plays will materially increase in 2012.
So then let's just say you have a $85 $90 a $100 oil I mean Boone Pickens said $300 per barrel who knows it's just insanity out here but let's just say you have a $80 $90 $100 oil price if we've got programs going in the Eagle Ford that are successful and we've got programs going in the Delaware Basin that are successful we've got over 900 vertical locations plus you might be drilling these wells on 20s and 10s and who knows? I mean the single most active basin in North America is the Permian Basin.
This could -- it doesn't get the most visibility but it definitely is the most active.
So I think if those basins are working which they should and they have in order for us to start a -- even though I think we're one of the lowest if not the lowest producer of dry gas and it's the deal dry gas in North America which is Haynesville because of the acreage that we captured I think you'd have to look at a $5-plus gas price for us to even materially start looking at adding rigs and drilling in that area.
And it's all going to be based upon where oil prices are what kind of hedging program we have in what kind of rate of return we get.
And on an annual basis I mean the reservoir group comes in the G&amp;G group comes in Mark comes in as VP of Operations Roland runs the numbers and we say "Well here's our inventory of prospects in all 3 major regions.
Where can we get the highest rate of return with the least amount of risk?" And then that's how we come up with our programs.
I mean we we're very clear to the point to sometimes we literally are shorted to death because we're so transparent.
We say well we're really a natural gas company.
We're in a Tier 1 area in the Haynesville and the Bossier and we really want to stay there.
Had we been Tier 2 I think we would have left the Haynesville-Bossier a little earlier.
But we we're committed to creating value there and we did.
And you can see the production growth you can see the profile.
I mean even -- I know Dan McSpirit asked about some upside reserve our proved and developed reserve.
Well I think that we'd probably have reduced our costs to drilling complete things for Bossier by at least $1 million.
So I think we'll preserve those but let's see where the commodity price is.
Well we look at all that and now we're committed kind of like we announced at Thanksgiving we said well we've been looking and we advertised this.
We've been looking to add another core oil basin.
We said it within in our core area we didn't say where and that was the Gaines County acreage.
And we kept adding adding adding but we were looking.
Then also the Permian acquisition came up.
We didn't know that we'd be the owner of that.
We're very pleased that we are.
And now that we've kind of turned the corner we've got a catalyst and we have made a transformational move of Comstock in 2012.
What are we telling you we're doing? Well we're going to inventory our gas properties.
Fortunately we've been so fortunate we don't have any production payments that we have to honor and we don't have any JV partners we have to honor and those are things that we've got flexibility.
I mean flexibility is a key thing if you're in a horrible gas market.
So we're there so what are we doing? I mean we're pulling in our gas program materially we'll have 0 rigs that we operate after March.
And we're going to focus.
You put your money where your mouth is.
So where are we putting our money? We're -- well 92% of all the wells we drill this year are oil.
That's where we're putting it.
And I think we'll turn the corner and I think we're going to have stellar results.
And it's a gauntlet we're getting beat up but we're doing it with clarity.
We're telling you what we're doing.
And our next question comes from John Selser with Iberia Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> Gentlemen can you all talk a little about IP rates? It just sort of seems like through the industry and through the publicly traded companies it's just you see you get a lot of differences in the timing and how long oil is tested and chokes and different things.
Can you just talk kind of about the method and what you all have all chosen to do and how your rates might compare to others that might do it a different way? Sure.
I well I'm not going to venture to say how other people are doing it John but I'll -- we flow the wells on that restricted choke until we get a stable stabilized flow rate that's really steady and then that's what we call our IP rate.
It typically is very close to the 30-day rate because these wells just continue to clean up for such a loan period of time and they when you're flowing along that restricted choke they kind of just work their way up and level off for a little while before they start coming down.
And so it's pretty close to a 30-day rate but we try to get our IPs filed sooner than that because it's otherwise you're struggling with getting your production clearances to sell your oil and everything.
So the sooner we can get our completions filed the easier it is on everybody.
So that's kind of how we do it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in your in the Delaware Basin the rigs you have running there I guess those were the Eagle rigs and those were probably drilling vertical wells.
I know they attempted a horizontal there.
The rigs that you're moving in those I assume are going to be bigger rigs and more capable of successfully getting a horizontal well drilled versus some of the smaller rigs? Yes that's correct.
One of the -- Eagle had 2 rigs running 1 of them was a little smaller and we have replaced it with another rig just for performance issues.
What the other rig that they had in the quiller [ph] rig is a pretty big rig but it's a mechanical rig and it doesn't normally have a top driver so it's not as efficient for horizontal drilling as the rigs were moving.
It's about the same size as the 2 rigs we're moving out there but it's just not set up the same way.
The 2 rigs we're moving are both electric rigs with top drives and they've had them on there since the beginning.
And that's all they've been doing for us for several years to drill horizontal wells.
So we'll use them to drill vertical wells and they'll do a good job at that but it'll be nice to have them out there when we when we get ready to test a vertical concept.
Thank you John.
Again we're going to have 2 conventional mechanical rigs in the Delaware Basin.
And then like Mark said we'll have 2 that are capable of drilling horizontal wells.
Our next question comes from Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned the flexibility in your CapEx program for this year and I was just hoping to ask you a what-if question.
And that pertains to if we see gas prices persist here in the $250 range what do you think you'll do in terms of that drilling CapEx from where it is right now? Well we'll continue to of course monitor the overall cash flow we'll generate this year.
And we have more flexibility to-- we can reduce our capital budget if we see lower gas prices or something that would change that kind of cash flow expectation so...
Mike every rig that we're using right now currently we'll roll off the contract this year.
So I think that gives us the flexibility if we need to reduce it by another rig or so.
I mean hopefully that doesn't happen but we do have tremendous flexibility.
LLC Research Division</strong> When do you think you have to make that call? Say we had $2.50 gas through the summer when do you think you'll decide to potentially let 1 rig or 2 go? So we'll look at every month we'd look at that.
There's not a time and-- yes so we continue to look at our program forward so it's an ongoing question.
So this is where we think it looks like right now.
Well you even noticed that we reduced our budget that we put out in December.
We reduced it again in January because we needed to because gas the gas market is terrible right now so we've pulled it in.
And quite frankly if we had known the gas market would be where it is today we would have probably deferred completing the pad locations that we'd already contracted to to complete in the Haynesville but there was already a commitment that we have.
We don't have any other commitments like that.
That's quite a bit of capital that we don't expose ourselves to in the future either.
So I mean there's a lot of things that are kind of clean-up items on the gas side of the balance sheet that won't reoccur now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And I was hoping if you will can you identify the assets you have for sale and what the current production is coming from them? Yes we did that on our last call.
But basically we won't always be real specific about talking about the assets but they're generally conventional assets the ones we said were wet.
And I think the major property in that group will is the [indiscernible] field.
Overall they have about 10 million a day of production associated with them; both oil gas and NGLs.
So we've already kind of included that in our production guidance like we said in our last call.
Our next question comes from Jeff Robertson with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered.
Thank you Jeff.
And our next question comes from Kelly Krenger with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Most of mine have been answered but just Roland a quick one on the balance sheet.
You noted that the borrowing base was it's $700 million: $610 million on producing reserves and I think you said $90 million available for a year.
Then you said that you were of the belief that that would grow as you when your next redetermination is done based on the oil reserves and that sort of thing.
Is that growth on I guess the entire amount of it or the $610 million or how should we look at that? Well that's hard to say but when we look at our proved producing reserves at year end that we've wrapped up here and used in on new price tags which have lower expectations for gas we have some nice growth still in our proved producing reserves.
So how that all kind of filters down we have a lot of confidence-- we don't see it shrinking at all and we think it ought to grow so.
And then that's just -- the first redetermination which is completed in May.
And then the one that's going to be in the fall later on it will October November-ish that's where we would expect the really a lot of significant growth given the drilling we're doing especially on the oil all in well projects so...
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then I think you mentioned that you wanted to spend within cash flow plus asset sales does that include the Stone shares or is that are those considered kind of separate? When you -- do you consider those an asset sale or are those separate? They're considered a part of our asset sales and so we kind of show off a bit.
Those assets plus what we consider kind of our wet conventional properties that we had on the divesture list that's what we picked because they're we picked those even before gas fell to these lower levels because we felt like they would be something we would realize very large gains with by selling.
And we didn't go and look at our conventional gas assets that we may want to divest of in the future because we figured we could not realize big gains from selling those.
So I think that given the strength in oil prices that all those asset sales look like they're very doable still.
Research Division</strong> And the I think you've said this already here on the last follow-up question but the asset sale is out of your guidance and it as well as the kind of the percent of production that's oil and liquids that the asset sale has already been factored into the guidance on that as well.
Right.
And I think there may be a part of which maybe dilutes a little bit of-- as you go ahead and you're saying what's our total guidance for oil and you say well you're already there.
Well part of it is we factored all these things in but we've also been pretty conservative in our expectations for the new oil properties and even in the Eagle Ford because they don't have the long-time history that the Haynesville gas projects do.
So when we're looking ahead we're being very conservative and hopefully our oil production outperforms our guidance here.
The gas production became so predictable that we are very good at predicting that.
So over time I think that these our 2 unconventional oil projects will start to become just as predictable.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we ran out of time for questions.
I'd like to hand it back over to Jay.
Jeremy and probably the last 23 years that I've been the CEO of this company I've never had a year-end call of 1 hour 43 minutes.
I mean all of you that are still there I mean it's unbelievable.
Thank you for your time.
Hopefully we've informed you as to what we're doing and we've been very clear about it.
We'll be on the road the next 2 days telling the story to 24 different accounts and hopefully that'll show up in the value of the company with you all.
Thanks for your time and God bless.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Comstock Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Today's event is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Jay Allison President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead Mr.
Allison.
Thank you Regina.
I want to welcome everybody to the conference call.
And I really kind of want to give you a preview and tell you that the 30 slides that we all worked on in detail that they really are in great detail in order to give you a detailed breakdown of our Eagle Ford play as well as the Permian play that we're actively drilling now for oil and to show you why we expect oil to grow by 200% over last year.
That's the intent of the 30 slides that we're going to go over in detail.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources First Quarter 2012 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view the slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled First Quarter 2012 Results.
I am Jay Allison President of Comstock.
And with me this morning is Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our VP of Operations.
During this call we will review our 2012 first quarter financial and operating results as well as update the results of our 2012 drilling program.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentations and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Please refer to Page 3 of the presentation where we summarize our first quarter results.
Our growing oil side of the company is helping offset the negative impact that the very weak natural gas prices are having on our financial results.
We reported revenues of $110 million generated EBITDAX of $79 million and had operating cash flow of $67 million or $1.39 per share.
Gains from our divestitures allowed us to make a profit this quarter of $6.9 million or $0.14 per share.
This quarter had strong production growth as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
More importantly our oil production is growing.
It's expected to increase 200% from our oil production last year.
Our 2012 drilling program is off to a very good start especially in our newly acquired Wolfbone field in West Texas.
Mark will report that some of our recent vertical wells are some of the best reported in the play to date.
We drilled 22 successful wells including 15 successful oil wells in our Eagle Ford and Wolfbone programs in the first quarter.
We continue to work on improving our balance sheet which we used to give us an excellent inventory of oil projects to allow us to transition away from where we were a year ago when 96% of our production was natural gas.
I'll now turn it over to Roland Burns to review the financial results for this quarter in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
Starting with this presentation we're going to talk about our oil and gas production separately as the 50:1 relationship of gas prices to oil prices make an equivalent unit presentation that we're so used to meaningless to understanding the financial results given the current situation we're in.
So on Slide 4 we show our crude oil production on a daily basis for the last 3 years by quarter including the first quarter of this year.
And you can see this year is the first year we're really going to start showing growth in our oil production.
Our production this quarter grew by 267% to 5 600 barrels per day as compared to the first quarter of last year when we produced only 1 500 barrels per day.
Our Eagle Ford properties in South Texas shown in light blue on this chart increased to 4 100 barrels per day and will be the main driver of our oil growth this year.
We had 1 000 barrels per day in the Eagle Ford this quarter as compared to the 3 100 barrels a day we averaged in the fourth quarter.
Our Wolfbone properties in West Texas contributed 800 barrels a day to the averagely -- average quarterly rate and we expect that production for this area will grow substantially with the success we're now seeing with our recent Wolfbone wells.
The West Texas production was a little light this quarter due to transition issues we had to deal with which were left over from the previous operator.
Looking ahead to the remainder of this year with all of our drilling activity focused on oil we are forecasting our oil production to grow 190% to 210% over last year's production to a total of 2.4 million to 2.6 million barrels.
This forecast is slightly higher than our previous outlook and is driven by the results we're seeing in our Eagle Ford wells which have had lower declines than what we've originally expected.
Slide 5 shows our natural gas production on a daily basis.
Natural gas production grew by 17% over the first quarter last year to 246 million cubic feet per day but was about 9 million per day less than the fourth quarter rate of 255 million per day.
Production from our Haynesville and Bossier wells which are shown in light blue on this chart accounts for 71% of our total gas production.
We completed many of the wells that we carried over from last year in the first quarter but these wells were put on line fairly late in the quarter.
We've also decided to restrict the production from the 10-well pad that came on in March to less than 5 million per well due to the very low prices that we're experiencing for our natural gas production.
And then we've also had some minor delays in some pipeline hookups for some of the wells so they'll come on later in the second quarter.
The remaining 29% of our gas production was fairly comparable to the production rates we saw in the fourth quarter.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells which we show here in dark blue remained at about 31 billion per day.
And our South Texas gas production which we show in red on this chart also stayed the same about 23 million per day as the associated gas from the Eagle Ford program is offsetting declines from our mature South Texas gas properties.
Other gas production which is shown in purple increased to 8 million per day as compared to the 7 million per day we had in the fourth quarter and that's just in addition of the West Texas gas.
We are divesting of 9 million per day of our gas production which includes the conventional properties in both our South Texas and North Louisiana regions and we're breaking that production out separately in green on this chart.
After taking into account this divestiture we expect our natural gas production to be flat to slightly down for the next couple of quarters and then to show some more decline by the fourth quarter due to the lack of investment that we're making in the Haynesville.
As a result we've lowered our forecast for natural production -- natural gas production this year from an increase about 1% to 5% over the 2011 total gas production to a slight decrease of 2% to 6% from 2011's production rates.
Oil prices continue to be very strong and provided us some relief from the very low natural gas prices.
On Slide 6 we show that our realized average oil price increased 13% in the first quarter of 2012 to $102.93 per barrel as compared to $89.94 per barrel in the first quarter of 2011.
71% of our oil production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX-WTI price of $99.17.
So if you exclude the losses from the hedges that we actually realized $104.02 per barrel in the quarter which is about -- which averaged about 101% of the average benchmark NYMEX-WTI price.
Our Eagle Ford oil production is currently realizing a $9 premium to NYMEX WTI.
This premium was much less in January and February and then we see it continue to be very volatile.
On Slide 7 we outline our hedge position.
We have 5 000 barrels a day hedged at $99.53 for the rest of this year and then we presently have 3 000 barrels hedged at $100.33 for 2013.
So we plan to continue to add to these positions as this year progresses.
Slide 8 shows our average natural gas price which decreased 34% in the first quarter to $2.63 per Mcf as compared to $3.96 in the first quarter of 2011.
Our realized gas price was 96% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
On Slide 9 we cover our oil and gas sales.
Our 28% production growth and more importantly the 267% growth in oil production more than offset the 34% decline that we had at natural gas prices this quarter.
As a result our sales increased by 25% to $110 million in the first quarter as compared to $88 million in 2011's first quarter.
Oil properties now make up 47% of our total sales as compared to only 14% in the first quarter of last year.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other non-cash expenses or EBITDAX increased by 21% this quarter to $79 million from $65 million in 2011's first quarter and this is shown on Slide 10.
Slide 11 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $67 million and grew 19% over cash flow of $56 million in 2011's first quarter.
Slide 12.
We outline our earnings.
We reported net income of $6.9 million or $0.14 per share as compared to earnings of $2.4 million or $0.05 per share in 2011 first quarter.
The first quarter financial results in both periods include several unusual items.
We had significant gains from the sale of our marketable securities in both quarters.
The first quarter of 2012 we had a gain of $26.6 million or $17.3 million after tax which equates to $0.37 per share and we also had -- and then in 2011 first quarter we had a gain on sale of marketable securities of $21.2 million $13.8 million after tax or $0.30 per share.
We also reported a gain in 2012 of $6.7 million $4.4 million after tax or $0.09 per share on part of the oil and gas properties that we're divesting of this year.
Part of the divestiture closed in February and we expect to have an additional pretax gain of approximately $25 million in the second quarter from the balance of the property sale.
The proceeds of $9.5 million from the February closing are reflected as restricted cash on our balance sheet as they're part of a life-kind exchange that's allowing us to defer an almost $85 million tax gain that results from the oil and gas property divestitures we're making this year.
This will be released as -- after we close on the balance of the divestitures which we expect to happen today.
Other unusual items in the numbers include impairments of $1.3 million or $0.9 million after tax or $0.02 per share taken this quarter on some of our leases and then we had a similar impairment of $9.5 million or $6.1 million after tax or $0.13 per share in 2011's first quarter.
The first quarter 2011 results also included a charge of $1.1 million or $0.7 million after tax or $0.02 per share relating to the early redemption of our 2012 senior notes which we redeemed 1 year early.
Excluding these items we would have reported a net loss of $0.30 per share this quarter and $0.10 per share in 2011's first quarter.
On Slide 13 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter and our lifting cost are broken out to -- into 3 components: production taxes transportation and other field lever operating costs.
Our total lifting cost increased to $1.03 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to $0.90 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2011 and then at the very low $0.77 per Mcfe we realized in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase is mainly due to the higher cost of oil production versus the low-cost gas production in the Haynesville.
The higher lifting costs are really a small price to pay for the significant revenue growth that the oil properties are providing for us.
Production taxes this quarter were $0.14 and our transportation cost averaged $0.31 in this quarter.
Field operating cost averaged $0.58 per Mcfe this quarter and that was about same rate as we had in the first quarter 2011.
On Slide 14  we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative cost decreased to $0.21 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to $0.26 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2011.
The rate was slightly higher than the $0.20 per Mcfe we had in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 15.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the first quarter averaged $3.24 per Mcfe as compared to the $3.03 rate we had in the first quarter of 2011 and the $3.07 we averaged in the fourth quarter.
The higher cost of the oil production and then the pressure on our natural gas reserves from the very low natural gas prices are driving this increase.
On Slide 16 we detail our capital expenditures.
We spent $178 million in the first quarter as compared to $158 million we spent on 2011's first quarter.
We spent $72 million in our East Texas-North Louisiana region $68 million in our South Texas region and then $38 million in our new West Texas region.
With the activity in the Haynesville wrapping up for the most part in March we do expect our CapEx level to be significantly lower in the upcoming quarters.
And now looking on Slide 17 you can see that we still expect to spend $458 million in our drilling activity this year despite that -- the high level of spending that you saw in the first quarter.
Mostly we're pretty much on track to maintain the same drilling budget that we presented earlier.
This budget is based on the 6 operated rigs that we're currently running 2 are in the Eagle Ford and then 4 are in the Delaware Basin in West Texas.
Slide 18 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the first quarter and then we also have a pro forma presentation just taking into account of the property divestitures that we're completing today.
At the end of the first quarter we had $4 million in cash.
We had a $9.5 million in restricted cash that I mentioned earlier and then $17 million in marketable securities on hand.
We have a total of $1.2 billion of total debt which is comprised of about $600 million of our public borrowings and about $610 million outstanding under our bank's credit facility.
Today we're completing the property divestitures that we outlined back when we first told our stockholders about the new Wolfbone purchase.
We estimate that we will receive net proceeds from these sales of $123 million after the normal purchase price adjustments and then selling cost and that includes also the restricted cash that we'll all have available here with the expiration of the exchange trust.
With the sales the banks have adjusted our borrowing base down to $655 million to reflect the production that we're selling.
On a pro forma basis our bank debt would fall off to $487 million applying the proceeds here to the -- our bank debt.
Then our debt-to-total book capitalization which is at 54% in the first quarter would improve at a pro forma basis to 51%.
Referring to Slide 19 we want to point out that we will continue to maintain a conservative financial profile this year given the acquisition debt that we took on and then the weak natural gas prices that we're experiencing.
We have completed the asset sales or will complete them today and we targeted a net generating proceeds of $123 million.
We sold all but 600 000 of our stake in Stone Energy which provided $38 million to help fund our drilling program this year and then we'll continue to monetize that investment based on opportunities we have this year.
We've also implemented a hedging strategy to protect us from declines in oil prices in the next 2 years and we'll target to hedge 70% of our expected oil production.
As I -- and as we showed recently we'll maintain flexibility for what we spend on this year's drilling program.
But with natural gas prices continuing to weaken in the first part of this year we're not completely satisfied with the liquidity that we have even after completing most of the divestitures that we targeted at the top end of our expectations.
We will look to enhance liquidity and targeting to enhance it by another $100 million to $150 million this year but we're not looking to do anything that will be dilutive to our existing stakeholders.
The 2 things that we're considering to increase our liquidity are to term out some of the bank debt in the bond market which would -- which could increase the availability we have under the credit facility.
And then we're also looking at potentially bringing in a joint venture partner into one of our oil drilling programs.
We're now in a position of having a very large inventory of high-return oil projects and we don't have the operating cash flow to develop in the timeframe that we think would maximize value for these projects.
So we think either of these alternatives will be very additive to the overall value of the company in the long run.
Mark would now give you an update on our operations and our drilling results.
Thanks Roland.
On Slide 20 we recap our activity in our East Texas-North Louisiana region for the first quarter.
We drilled 7 wells or 3.4 net wells in this region including 5 or 3 net Haynesville-Bossier horizontal wells and 2 or 0.4 net Cotton Valley wells.
All of these wells were successful.
The 2 Cotton Valley wells were nonoperated wells located in one of the properties that we are divesting today.
We moved our 2 operated drilling rigs out of this region during the first quarter so any remaining wells drilled this year will be nonoperated.
We completed 10 gross and 10 net of our operated Haynesville or Bossier shale wells in the first quarter and we have 5 wells waiting to be completed.
Much of the new production came online in March and we have -- and we limited the production of these wells in response to low gas prices.
With minimal lease expirations occurring this year we've been able to move much of our drilling budget to profitable oil projects without jeopardizing our 82 000 net acre position in the Haynesville.
We will be able to exploit our 7.3 Tcfe of Haynesville and Bossier resource potential in the future when gas -- when improved gas prices provide economics competitive with our oil projects.
Slide 21 shows our West Texas region and the 90 000 gross and 56 000 net acres that we have in that region.
This consists of 13 000 net acres in Gaines County and 43 000 net acres in Reeves County.
Our activity this year will be focused on Reeves County and the properties we acquired from Eagle Oil &amp; Gas at the end of the year.
With budget dollars this year being in high demand we will wait until next year to test some of the ideas we have for our Gaines County acreage.
The Reeves County acreage provides us over 900 vertical locations targeting the Wolfbone section which has 178 million BOE of resource potential.
We have a proven successful vertical program on our acreage but we think there is significant upside with horizontal development in the Avalon Bone Spring's and Wolfcamp formations on our Reeves County acreage.
Slide 22 shows our Reeves County acreage and the activity we had in the first quarter.
Since we closed on the acquisition we have drilled 8 vertical wells 5.7 net vertical wells all of them were successful.
We have completed 7 operated Wolfbone vertical wells since we closed the acquisition on December 29.
These wells which we see on the map were drilled to a total depths of 11 477 to 12 170 feet and they were completed with 5 to 9 frac stages.
The 7 wells had an average per well initial production rate of 347 BOE per day and 80% of that was oil not rich gas or superrich gas but oil.
Our first 3 wells the Paladin the City of Pecos and the Monroe averaged 262 BOE per day.
After that we changed our completion approach and had improved results with the last 4 wells the Dale Evans the Jessie James the Lone Ranger and the Pistola which averaged 410 BOE per day.
The Jessie James well which had an initial production rate of 539 BOE per day is one of the top vertical wells in the Wolfbone play.
As you can see the Pistola is the weakest of the group at 193 BOE per day but it's located at the very southern edge of our acreage.
We think this area will be prospective for horizontal development so we want to maintain our acreage position in this area.
We also participated in the completion of 3 nonoperated Wolfbone wells just east of the Jessie James which averaged 322 BOE per day.
One other thing to note on this map is that the different colored dots outside of our acreage represent recent horizontal permits by the various offset operators including Clayton Williams Concho BHP Cimarex and others.
And we'll talk just a bit about the horizontal in a little bit.
Slide 23 shows 25 operated wells in our Wolfbone field including the 7 we completed in the first quarter.
The 25 wells had an average per well initial production rate of 297 BOE per day.
The 30-day rate for those 25 wells was 233 BOE per day which was 89% of the initial rate.
Over a longer period of 90 days the rates averaged 75% of the initial rate.
We will continue to monitor results and adjust our completion approach to improve our results.
But we are very encouraged that some of the most recent wells have had impressive IP rates and are so far well above our average Wolfbone type curve.
Slide 24 shows you the location of the 25 producing wells that are listed on the previous slide.
Slide 25 shows what we plan to drill for the remainder of 2012.
Our drilling program is targeted at holding leases so we can't just focus on drilling around where we are getting the best results.
We have 3 wells currently drilling shown as the red stars on the map and we are in process of moving the fourth rig to a new location.
We are currently competing 4 wells which are shown as the red triangles on the map.
The red dots show the locations that are currently in our drill schedule for 2012.
We are planning to spud our first horizontal Wolfcamp well in June and we're currently evaluating several potential wells in our drill schedule to convert from vertical to horizontal.
If the horizontal results are encouraging and we expect them to be we will be poised to convert additional vertical wells to horizontal going forward.
Slide 26 which we've shown you all before shows where we think our program is heading to with horizontal development.
This slide shows the various potential oil targets in our -- on our Reeves County acreage.
Also shown are the potential completion types that we anticipate will be prospective on our acreage.
On the left is our conventional vertical Wolfbone well showing the primary 1 500 feet of completion interval in the Wolfbone and an additional 1 000 to 1 500 feet of completion potential in the upper Bone Spring which includes the Avalon.
In addition to that we believe there are several horizontal targets in the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp that may significantly improve the economics of the play.
We have one horizontal well scheduled this year and as illustrated on Slide 22 other operators in the area are actively pursuing horizontal opportunities in the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp in our same area.
The horizontal aspect of this play is just emerging so there's much science to be applied before it can be verified but we are very excited to have such a prime position in this very hot basin.
On Slide 27 we cover our South Texas operations where all the activity is in our oil-focused Eagle Ford Shale play.
We have 35 000 gross acres and 28 000 net acres in the oil window of the Eagle Ford Shale.
Based on a detailed study of our acreage we believe we have 260 horizontal locations including the wells we have already drilled that will yield 80 million BOE equivalent -- of BOE of which over 80% is oil.
We have excluded 5 500 of our northern acreage from the resource potential estimate as it is not economic at the current price.
The average gross EUR is 500 000 barrels of oil equivalent for the 5 separate type curves that we use in this program to evaluate our acreage.
Slides 28 and 29 show the results and the locations of the 27 wells that are currently producing on our Eagle Ford acreage.
We completed 8 more Eagle Ford Shale wells since our last update.
They are shown at the bottom of the list.
Starting with the short well.
The 8 wells had an average per well initial production rate of 498 BOE per day.
These wells were primarily drilled in the company's northern acreage in Atascosa La Salle and McMullen Counties in order to meet our primary term lease obligations.
All of these wells are being produced under the company's restricted choke program.
Longer-term production results from the first 19 Eagle Ford Shale wells have confirmed the benefits of this program.
Our first 19 wells which have been producing for more than 90 days have an average initial production rate of 782 BOE per day.
The 30-day per well production rate for these wells averaged 584 BOE per day and the 90-day production rate averaged 514 BOE per day or 68% of the initial rate.
The restricted choke program also extends the time before artificial lift is needed.
If you compare our results to similar data published by some of the other operators in the Eagle Ford and public data that's available I think you'll find that our extended time results are very strong.
Later this year we plan to begin development drilling which will allow for cost efficiencies associated with multi-pad -- multi-well pad development.
As I said before Slide 29 shows the location of the 27 producing wells that were listed on the previous slide.
As you can see we have now tested all of our acreage.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Thank you Mark and thank you Roland.
If everybody go to the final page Page 30.
I mean despite the dismal outlook for natural gas prices after a very warm winter I mean we are excited about the prospects for Comstock this year and we expect the strong growth in our oil production will more than offset the low natural gas prices to allow us to have higher revenues and cash flow and be a much more profitable company in 2012.
And we expect oil to comprise 15% to 18% of our 2012 production and over 20% production at the end of this year.
92% of the net wells we'll drill in 2012 will be oil wells and 77% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
Even though overall production this year may only grow by 5% this year after divestitures we expect oil to grow by 200% over last year.
Our Eagle Ford Shale program will be our largest growth engine this year.
The recently completed Permian acquisition gives us another oil growth engine and we're in the middle of one of the hottest oil plays in the country and sitting on great acreage position.
In addition to a proven profitable vertical drilling program we see tremendous upside in future horizontal development in the emerging Wolfcamp shale.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
We plan on maintaining a conservative financial profile to improve our liquidity post the Permian acquisition.
We are reducing leverage this year with the asset divestitures that as of today will be completed and we will utilize an oil price hedging strategy to protect the acquisition and our oil-focused drilling program.
As Roland have stated earlier we're committed to further improving our liquidity to allow us to weather the natural gas price storm that we're all caught up in.
For the rest of the call we will take questions only from the research analysts who follow the stock.
Regina I'll turn it over to you.
[Operator Instructions] And gentlemen your first question today comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about -- obviously you changed the completion on the Wolfbone wells.
Can you tell what you did a little bit differently? And then also I noticed that it's mostly Wolfcamp and not a lot of completions in the Bone Spring's.
Could you add additional completions there? Brian this is Mark.
First on our completion approach our first 2 wells it's a very thick section.
There's a lot of complexity of the lithology the different formations within this section from the third Bone Spring's down to the Wolfcamp.
So our first 2 completions we took the approach that we were just going to space our perforations out somewhat evenly and expect the frac jobs to grow up and down and contact all the reservoir rock.
And the results weren't as we liked.
So we've changed our approach to really target the rock that gives up the best oil and we did that by running some fairly advanced logs and did a lot of log analysis and we tied that to production logs that Eagle had run and determine where the oil is coming from and why it's coming from there and then we adjusted our completion approach our perforating strategy mainly to that data.
We've also enlarged our frac job on one of the wells and that appears to be giving us better result also.
So it's going to be a combination going forward of changing our frac strategy and our perforating strategy.
On the other question about the Wolfbone typically in here and we've done it and other operators are doing it too the initial completion is the third Bone Spring down through the Wolfcamp because that's more of a geo-pressured section.
It has higher reservoir pressure.
And then later you can come in and recomplete into the upper Bone Spring the first and second Bone Spring and the Avalon and several operators have done some of those with pretty good result.
There are still some more complexity there some things to learn.
But yet on all of our acreage the upper Bone Spring is prospective.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then getting to -- Roland I think you talked a little bit about the JV or potential JV in the Eagle Ford.
Can you just -- I don't know just the thought process between terming out debt versus JV being part of the Eagle Ford and how much? Are you looking for a certain amount of capital? What do you -- what's the thoughts there? Brian this is Roland.
We look at wanting to improve liquidity a little more as opposed to really slashing the CapEx some more just because we're having so much success in adding the oil in the 2 programs.
So I think the terming out some of the bank debt makes a lot of sense to add just to liquidity.
It doesn't really reduce leverage.
But I think the other thing we looked at is that as the -- with the success that Mark's having with the Wolfbone and then when he goes horizontal we're going to have quite a bit of demand for drilling dollars just this year next year and in the future.
And then the 2 programs since we have such a large interest especially in the Eagle Ford that it might make sense to sell a small part of that to a partner.
We'd still want to operate.
It'd still be very large program for us and to use that to help just bring in some equity-type dollars to actually delever the company.
So that's why we've looked at that as an option and I think both of them are great options.
We could do a combination of both or one of the other but it's something that we'll look to do relatively soon.
We've been working on it quite a bit.
That's why I want to just bring it up in the conference call and say that we don't have details for either one.
But it's not that we spent a lot of time this first 4 months working on -- especially watching the other natural gas prices erode.
Well Brian I think my comment is the stockholders are used to a delevered company but they're also used to a $4 or $5 gas price.
So once you have a $1.92 gas price even though the 12-month strip is almost $3 I mean we had to either probably lose a lot of our borrowing base because the bank new price deck or we had to go and morph into an oil-based company and inventory our natural gas which Mark said we've got 7.3 Tcfe of upside we think in our Haynesville/Bossier which we'd spend maybe $15 million $20 million on from here on out till we decide to drill there again.
So we did have a core area in the Eagle Ford and it was good.
We have 211 or so locations.
But we felt like internally we had to have another Tier 1 oil basin which was a Permian and this turned out to be probably better than we thought it would in the timeframe that we've owned it.
So if you look at the most mature area that we could probably find a very compatible JV partner it is in the Eagle Ford.
So we would reduce our position little bit.
And with the JV partner we would probably accelerate some of that drilling based upon a carry and I think that would be a win-win for everybody.
And we would delever the company which -- management is used to a company that's a little less levered than we are today.
So of I hope that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes that was good.
And just maybe a follow on to that.
I mean you all mentioned relatively soon.
So I mean should we be looking at the next month 2 months 3 months for kind of you ought to make a decision and to move forward? Is that kind of the thought? The one thing Brian you assumed we are not is reckless.
I mean you -- we did take risks but we don't ever want to be reckless.
And when we announced that we would buy the Eagle Oil &amp; Gas properties in the Permian basin we said that one we would have an aggressive hedging program which we have at about 2.8 million barrels hedged.
Second thing we said that we thought that we could monetize anywhere from $100 million to $130 million of our existing properties which that number as Roland said earlier has $128 million.
And we want to have our borrowing base redetermined more sooner than later.
We did that really February.
We put that press release out March 6.
And then Roland reported that our new bank case with the sale that we should close today it gave you that number.
So even back in November December one of the things internally that we thought about was having a potential partner in the Eagle Ford.
So we have been working on that.
All of January all of February all of March and through today May 1.
So that is well underway.
So when that happens or if it happens I don't know.
It could happen in the next month.
It may be a quarter.
We're not going to do something that would diminish the value that we have on a per-share basis.
But we are telling you that we're not comfortable with the liquidity that we have even though that we think our cash flow from operations this year will go ahead and cover our drilling budget and we reinforced that $458 million of CapEx.
We still think that we need to have some liquidity.
Nobody's forcing that on us.
It's just I think something that management and the board would like and I think the stockholders would like that.
So we're pursuing that now.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Kim Pacanovsky with MLV.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just walk us through some of the assumptions that you've made in your 178 million barrel estimate for the Permian? Yes.
Kim this is Mark.
Our -- it was based on our net vertical wells.
And I believe a 200 -- basically a 200 000 BOE type curve.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that 200 000 BOE just the Wolfcamp and the third Bone Spring or is there the secondary section of Bone Spring in that? That is -- Kim that is a -- that is the third Bone through the Wolfcamp.
The section that's been completed so far all the historical data we used to build our type curve.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's a lot of upside to that number then? We believe there is both on -- in the upper section and in the horizontal development.
We believe there's significant upside to that number.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And just -- if you could just give me the old number that you had for percent oil growth? You were at 190% to 210% now and what was the old number? As far as the percent or growth? Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Yes you said you increased your percent growth year-over-year to 190% to 210%.
It's actually 200% before.
And I think that we're -- depending on the results if a lot of that wells in the Wolfbone can be like Jessie James then we can raise our numbers.
So we’re really encouraged but it's only a few wells.
So I think that there's some upside to our oil forecast.
We just aren't ready to stretch it out too much.
And I think the market Kim should hold us accountable for spudding a well and -- in a premier part of the Permian in June.
I mean Mark is working at least on that one and you need to have another one right behind that.
So we're going to start that program in June.
If that turns out really well and we hit a really nice oil which we -- hopefully we expect that then some of those numbers might change too to the positive.
And the next question is from the line of John Selser with Iberia Capital.
LLC</strong> You touched on this already but I was hoping you might expand on it a little bit.
If you were to term out some of your bank debt would you create some spare capacity in your bank line? I mean I guess the question is that as you term it out that it won't be a dollar-per-dollar reduction in the borrowing base.
Will it? No John this is Roland.
That's correct.
Our facility basically would have -- it's about a $0.25 reduction for every $1 of new subordinated debt that we would put on.
So that's a kind of a built-in feature.
So it would create quite a bit of availability if we do that.
Now it is not going to -- we recognize that doesn't reduce the overall leverage of the company because it's still debt and it would have a higher cost than our bank debt.
LLC</strong> Right.
And just one more real quick on the -- if you x the Haynesville spending out of the first quarter it still looks like you're about $100 million on a run rate.
If you proceed like that through the next 3 quarters and then your closer to $500 million if my LSU math is correct.
How -- why do you feel still that you're going to be smaller in the $458 million range? John this is Mark.
We have a couple of rigs in our schedule.
We have less rigs in a couple of months I think in 2 or 3 of the months later in the year which reduces the capital in those months.
So it's not just a flat capital program from here out.
I think our third quarter is going to be less than our second and our fourth if I recall.
It's -- we're staying at 2 rigs on average in Eagle Ford but we have some rigs that are expiring and some that are coming.
And the timing of them just doesn't match up perfectly so it kind of goes 2 rigs 3 rigs 1 rig 2 rigs is the kind of how it looks.
And I think the other thing John to point out is that the first quarter had a lot of completion activity from both the Haynesville which -- but also even in the Eagle Ford because we were using the same crew.
So there was a lot of wells that were built up in the Eagle Ford that we did a lot of completion work in March and you saw those wells on our charts that came on in March and April.
So there's -- it has an unusual amount of completion activity as the backlog in both plays it was pretty much cleaned out in the first quarter.
So that's -- and that's -- with the Eagle Ford and the Haynesville completion cost on wells is the huge dollar item and it gets incurred very quickly because they do the work in a week.
And you also have some motion with the final settlement of Eagle Oil &amp; Gas in the first quarter numbers because remember there were 800 leases we had to get our hands around.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just continue to drill down into the cost side.
Can you give us what your current Wolfbone costs are? Have those gone up at all with the new completion technique? And what are your current Eagle Ford costs right now? Leo this is Mark.
Using the same frac size that we started with we're still -- we're right at $4.5 million.
In fact a couple of our wells look like they're going to be a little bit less than that maybe in the $4.1 million $4.2 million range.
The new frac design that we had pumped on one of the wells the Lone Ranger's 192 well that does add some costs.
So that pushes us up in the -- into the upper 4s probably between $4.8 million and $5 million.
But we're still tweaking that job size and some of the other things and we're also still improving our drilling process.
So we think we'll be able to work that back down into the $4 million or $5 million range.
On the Eagle Ford our kind of our goal -- our expectation before was to be at around $8.5 million.
And then once we went to pad drilling it would push that number down to maybe $8 million.
But our last 5 wells have averaged about $8 million and our last 10 wells have averaged somewhere around $8.1 million.
And we're not doing much pad drilling yet.
So I think we're seeing some of the improvement in both our drilling curves our completion efficiency and in some of the pressure on service costs just across-the-board in South Texas to help that.
And when we get into full development mode based on these numbers we could be in the low to mid-7s.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in the Eagle Ford you talked about early this year having to drill some areas to the north where the results kind of weren't as good as historically.
When do you expect to transition further to the south on your acreage position? Is that happening now or is that second half of the year? It's probably second half of the year.
We got both rigs running I think in our -- in kind of that same area our Hubbard lease which is near the Carlson and then we'll move back down.
We'll drill some wells on the Hill lease and the Gloria Wheeler lease which is in the southern area.
So it really starts probably June or so.
But I guess we have a difference of opinion.
I think the results are still very good in that middle section.
It fits our type curves.
The EURs are not much lower than in the south.
The IP rates are little lower but we still are very pleased with the results in that middle section of our acreage.
Yes.
Leo that's one reason we gave that very very detailed chart on the Eagle Ford.
We're always asked what's your 30- 60- 90-day rates and what's your decline rates.
So you couldn't get any more detail than that chart.
In the same way in the Permian we gave you a detailed chart there.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First for me up in West Texas.
You've kind of alluded to some transmission issues you were looking through.
I was wondering if you could add a little color around that and just give us some -- the outlook for just kind of midstream environment as you see it and the -- how you progress.
Yes.
Michael this is Mark.
We didn't -- other than just taking an extra week or 2 to get a gas line laid we don't have any transmission or transportation issues in West Texas.
We did when we took over the field.
There were lot of wells that were still on primary production and hadn't been converted to artificial lift yet.
As is typical with an operator who is in the sell process they -- when they know they're going to sell they quit spending capital and doing things and it just takes you a little while to kind of catch up.
And so really it's been more just the mechanical aspect of the field the first 3 or 4 months.
Yes.
I think the comment was transition issues not transmission.
There you go.
Research Division</strong> My apologies.
I guess for my follow-up then just kind of in the Eagle Ford.
Looking at the completions in the first quarter it looks like -- or I should say in 2012 it looks like only a couple went off and actually produced during the first quarter yet you had a nice big bump in oil volumes first quarter versus fourth quarter '11.
Any read-through on the type curve? I mean how are you holding up relative to expectations on your type curve? And I guess how is that looking versus what you thought? We -- this is Mark.
We've adjusted our type curve a little bit upward a couple of times since we started this program and we still are very comfortable with our results that we're at or above the type curves on average.
We're trying to be somewhat conservative with our bookings and our projections because we don't want to undershoot so yes very comfortable with that.
Part of that you're talking about the first quarter production being strong we had several wells completed in December.
I think we had 4 completed in December of last year.
So most of that production really hit the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on I think John Selser's question earlier.
Relative to your CapEx budget is it fair to assume in terms of carryover cap -- or completions you ended up spending somewhere in kind of that $85 million to $90 million range which is -- which then is how you kind of push yourselves down closer to the $9 million run rate over the rest of the year? Is that the right way to look at your CapEx? Yes.
Ron this is Roland.
Yes that's -- a lot of that work get -- did get done in the first quarter lot of the Eagle Ford carryover and the Haynesville and so that's definitely a big part of it.
That's a big component of that.
But like Mark said there's a few -- there's a couple of months later on in the year we aren't running as many rigs.
I think that was a -- just going to the pad development is -- it can be -- it can really -- as we were doing that in the Haynesville that can really kind of cost the CapEx to get -- really get concentrated in a particular month.
And we kind of actually start to do that in late in the second half of 2012 in the Eagle Ford as we're going to -- things start to go to a little bit of pad development We'll actually not be completing some of those wells until we can get them all drilled.
So I think that's probably why the fourth quarter CapEx maybe one of lightest quarters of the year because you're -- some of that's going to be pushed into 2013.
So it's just timing.
We have a detailed budget based on the rigs the cost of the rigs.
Then the timing of completions is really critical to how it fits in a quarter or a year.
It's because -- not so much maybe on the Wolfbone.
But when you're talking about the Haynesville and the Eagle Ford the completion cost as I said it's a very big large part of the budget and it happens in a very quick period of time when you have to do the work.
Yes we could have 5 or 6 or more Eagle Ford rigs drilled and being completed at December '12 going into '13 and that's what Roland was talking about.
So what we're trying to do is adjust it to have more production in December versus pushing it out into January February.
So we'd beat Mark up on that all the time.
But that's your timing issue Ron with the CapEx.
That's why it gets a little light in the fourth quarter.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark can you -- I think you mentioned that you're now excluding about 5 500 acres from the northern part of your position.
Is that 5 500 net acres or gross acres in terms of your resource potential? And is that what drove your EURs in the Eagle Ford from the 400 000-barrel range to the 500 000-barrel range as you high grade or you just give a little bit more color behind that comment? Ron you're correct that it's -- it was 5 500 net acres and it's right up in the -- in and around our Jupe well which just isn't economic right now at these prices.
Although we -- if we get our cost driven down into that $7 million to $7.5 million range we'll reevaluate that and we might be able to pull that acreage back into the mix.
So yes it -- when you take that acreage out your average recovery per remaining well goes up.
That's part of the reason we went from 400 000 to 500 000 and part of it is an adjustment of the type curves because of the performance we've seen.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And you -- but that allows then to remain at that plus or minus 100-acre spacing? That is correct.
Yes we do feel there's additional potential on a tighter well spacing also but we just haven't gotten out and proving that yet so we don't want to add those numbers.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Roland just on the LOE.
It was up.
You -- and talked about it being related to oil production.
As your oil continues to grow as a percentage of your overall production stream I've been modeling continued unit cost growth in both LOE and production taxes.
Is that the right way to look at it or any outlook in terms of range of potential cost increases as your oil production increases? Ron definitely the production taxes -- a lot of the gas production at Haynesville has an exempt rate.
So as -- it really distorts the production tax rate that we had last year.
We had such a very low rate because of the big growth in the Haynesville production.
Of course now no oil production has any exempt rate.
And so as oil becomes a bigger percent the actual average production tax percent of sales we see that increasing from the 3.3% level to depends on how fast oil grows but to getting closer to 4% kind of average to 4.5% maybe before it really gets to big share of the revenue.
So that's definitely one component that's pretty predictable and it can be kind of calculated.
On gathering costs part of our lifting is very much tied to the gas production.
So it's very variable and you'll see it just track whatever the gas production is because that's where we transport the gas a fairly -- a long distance in order to realize the strong gas prices the net that we get in the Haynesville.
Within the fixed lifting cost we -- of course we added the new properties as part of our fixed lifting costs in the first quarter the oil properties.
Yes they're just generally cost more to produce in general -- especially when they got artificial lift.
So yes the trend would be that we really can't realize $0.77 per Mcfe if we want to convert our revenue stream to oil.
It's just impossible.
So we see that the cost we had this quarter is probably a good proxy for where it'll be the next couple of quarters and then maybe increase it a little bit more as the production tax rates are higher Your next question comes the line of Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> These 90-day rates in the Eagle Ford wells are definite positive very strong.
I was hoping you could give me your decline assumptions between month 1 and month 13? Mike this is Mark.
I think our -- yes type curves vary a little bit but I think the decline is about 70% on average.
So your -- that's your 1 year decline from day 1 to day 366 is about 70% on the type curves.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean these 90-day rates it seems like you're outperforming that to-date.
Is that a fair assumption? We think we are a little bit.
We're just not ready to adjust our type curves and our modeling yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we've seen some pretty attractive JVs done in the Eagle Ford and some asset sales there.
And now with a 500 000-barrel EUR pegged to your acreage here do you think you could garner up to 20 000 maybe 30 000 an acre type price for any sale or JV done there? I think our goal is to whoever the JV partner might be I mean is to not trick them into doing a good or bad deal but to show him what we've done and that we've derisked this acreage and come up with something for the deal.
Now we'll see what the going JV agreements are and then based upon what we've done and our acreage -- and again a great thing about Comstock I mean the wells we'll drill this year which is 24 gross well there's 22 net.
So we have almost 100% ownership of each of these wells.
So even though we may sell down a little bit I think we're in the best possible position to one add a little liquidity here and maybe even accelerate the Eagle Ford and get a very nice partner with a fair price for both of us.
Gentlemen your final question tonight comes from the line of Jack Aydin with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Most of the questions were answered but is there anything different -- you did anything different in Jessie James well than the other wells that you got such good results? Well that's the outlaw name.
We're going to name them all outlaw names.
Well Jack this is Mark.
We got almost as good a result in the Dale Evans and the Lone Ranger and I really think the Lone Ranger may end up being the best of those 3.
We did a bigger frac job on it a lot more fluid.
It's a little slower to clean up but it looks really strong.
I just didn't have a 30-day rate to give you yet but it looks very good.
But I think on all 3 of those we used the same completion approach of trying to pick the right places to put the perforations.
And that's still a learning process.
It's a very complex section.
And my first impression was you just go in there and kind of shotgun approach perf and frac and you'll be fine but it didn't work that way.
And so we're still learning.
I think we'll get better as we go.
So this is kind of our first run at applying the new science to the completions.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up question on the Eagle Ford you're using 100-acre spacing.
The industry using 65-acre spacing.
Now when do you think you might decide to go to the 65-acre spacing? Jack we're working on that right now.
This is Mark.
And we're -- we are -- the 2 Hill wells we're going to drill later are I think 65-acre spacing wells.
We're going to drill those and test them and make sure that we're satisfied with the results.
And then we adjust our spacing a little bit depending on whether we're drilling due north/south or we're drilling more perpendicular to the frac direction.
And so our spacing does vary a little bit.
Ultimately it's going to be a little smaller than 100 but we're just using 100 right now to be conservative.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the question-and-answer portion of our event.
Gentlemen would you like to make some closing remarks? Yes Regina.
Again those that are still on the call it's been 1 hour and 20 minutes.
We started out that we acknowledge that we are in a dismal natural gas market.
But let me tell you what our goal was we hope that the detailed slides and our comments gave great transparency to everyone as we're -- we currently are as a company in transition and really we're trying to go the remainder of the year.
We've told you we're not deluding anybody with equity issuances.
We would like to raise little more liquidity maybe to the bond market or partnering one of our oil plays.
But we're trying to be totally transparent because you as a stockholder trust that we'll implement what we tell you to do.
And if we can't then we'll tell you why on a 90-day basis.
So again thanks for enduring 1 hour and 24 minute call.
We do appreciate it.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for your participation today.
This does conclude the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Comstock Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeda and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Jay Allison Chairman and CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you Janeda.
I like your tone.
It's excellent to start the meeting off.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources Second Quarter 2012 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view the slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled Second Quarter 2012 Results.
I'm Jay Allison President of Comstock.
And with me this morning are Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss the new joint venture we have entered into on our Eagle Ford acreage review our 2012 second quarter financial and operating results as well as update the results of our 2012 Eagle Ford and Wolfbone drilling programs.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentation and note that our discussion today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations and such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Tab 3.
Please refer to Page 3 of the presentation where we summarize our second quarter results.
The financial results this quarter were impacted by the very low natural gas prices that we received for our production.
The growing oil side of the company is helping mitigate the negative impact that the very weak natural gas prices were having on our financial results.
For the second quarter we reported revenues of $105 million generated EBITDAX of $75 million and had operating cash flow of $61 million or $1.32 per share.
We had a net loss of $10.3 million or $0.22 per share.
We grew our production by 6% as compared to the second quarter of 2011.
More importantly we increased our oil production by 267% from our oil production in the second quarter of last year.
Our 2012 drilling program is off to a strong start especially in our newly acquired Wolfbone field in West Texas.
Mark will report that some of the -- our most recent vertical wells are some of the best reported in the play to date.
We drilled 39 successful wells including 32 successful oil wells in our Eagle Ford and Wolfbone programs in the first half of the year.
We're excited today to be able to announce a new partnership that we've formed with KKR.
The joint venture places a $25 000 per acre value on the acreage position we have assembled and will allow us to accelerate drilling activity while also bringing our CapEx down to be in line with our operating cash flow.
If you'll flip to Slide 4 we'll summarize the new joint venture.
We believe that KKR will be an ideal partner for us since they are an experienced participant in the early development of the Eagle Ford shale through their Hilcorp investment.
The joint venture provides KKR an opportunity to participate but does not obligate Comstock to drill wells in the future.
KKR will have the right to participate for 1/3 of our working interest in wells drilled on our 28 000 net acres in exchange for $25 000 per acre for the net acreage being acquired.
KKR earns 1/3 of our working interest in 80 acres for each well they participate in.
In other words they pay $667 000 for 26.7 net acres that we assign them and they pay 1/3 of the well costs.
The agreement will apply to wells spud on or subsequent to March 31 2012 and we will retain all our other interest in wells spud prior to that date.
KKR has committed to acquire acreage for the next 100 wells drilled on our Eagle Ford shale acreage and can continue to participate in additional wells drilled on the acreage for the same terms.
Basically we are guaranteed $67 million for the 2 167 net acres that the first 100 wells will earn and they can continue to participate on the same terms until they have earned a 1/3 interest in all of our undeveloped acreage.
This transaction will provide the capital necessary for us to accelerate drilling on this exciting oil play while still allowing us to have the capital to develop our Wolfbone properties in West Texas.
I'll turn it over to Roland to review the financial results for this quarter in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
At Slide 5 we show our crude oil production on a daily basis for the last 3 years by quarter including the first 2 quarters of this year.
Our oil production this quarter grew 276 -- 267% to 6 400 barrels per day as compared to the second quarter last year when we produced only 1 700 barrels per day.
Our Eagle Ford shale properties in South Texas shown in light blue on this chart increased to 4 600 barrels per day and is the main driver of our oil growth this year.
We added about 500 barrels per day in the Eagle Ford this quarter as compared to the 4 100 barrels we averaged in the first quarter of this year.
Our Wolfbone properties in West Texas contributed 1 400 barrels per day to the average rate and is starting to become a major player in our oil growth this year.
Looking ahead to the remainder of this year and with all the drilling activity starting in the second quarter focused on oil we are forecasting our oil production to grow by approximately 200% over last year's production to be around 2.4 million to 2.6 million barrels in 2012.
And this is even after we did divest a 400 barrels per day on May 1 of this quarter.
Slide 6 shows our natural gas production on a daily basis.
Natural gas production declined by 5% this quarter from the second quarter of last year to 241 million cubic feet per day and was about 5 million a day less than our first quarter rate of 246 million per day.
The decrease is primarily attributable to the production we sold with our May property divestiture and was up about 1 million a day if you look at the production on a pro forma basis excluding the sold production which we show on green on our production chart.
Production from our Haynesville and Bossier shale wells came in at 180 million per day in the second quarter and it accounts for 75% of our total gas production in the quarter.
Our Haynesville production increased about 5 million a day from the first quarter rate.
The remaining 25% of our gas production was pretty comparable to the levels we had in the first quarter.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells which is shown in dark blue declined slightly to 28 million per day in the quarter and our South Texas gas production which is shown in red on the chart remained the same at 23 million cubic feet per day.
We're forecasting natural gas production this year to be approximately 84 Bcf to 85 Bcf which would be a decrease of about 5% to 7% from last year's total gas production.
The decrease this year is mostly due to the sale of 9 million cubic feet of gas per day that we sold and completed those sales on May 1 in this quarter.
On Slide 7 we show our average realized oil price which decreased 2% in the second quarter of 2012 to $98.70 per barrel as compared to the $100 -- $101.02 per barrel that we had in the second quarter of 2011.
Our realized price averaged 106% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price in the quarter due to the high differentials that we're seeing from our Eagle Ford shale wells.
77% of our production in the quarter was hedged at a NYMEX WTI price of $99.53.
So if we include the gains from our hedging activity we realized $103.37 per barrel for the quarter which was 2% more than the prices we had in the second quarter of 2011.
Slide 8 shows the oil prices for the first half of this year and our realized oil price increased 6% in the first half of 2012 to $101.17 per barrel as compared to $95.89 per barrel in the same period in 2011.
Our realized oil price averaged 103% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price.
And 74% of our oil production for the first half of this year was hedged at a NYMEX WTI price of $99.37.
So including the gains from the hedging we realized $102.43 per barrel in the first 6 months which was 7% higher than the realized prices we had for the same period in 2011.
Slide 9 we outlined our hedge position for oil production and we do have an attractive oil hedge position in place which does protect our 2012 oil-focused drilling program.
We have 5 000 barrels a day hedged at $99.53 for the WTI price for the rest of this year for the last 2 quarters and then we have 3 000 barrels a day hedged at $100.33 per barrel for all of 2013.
We do plan to continue to add to our 2013 positions as the year progresses.
Slide 10 covers the natural gas prices.
The last quarter where we had natural gas prices as low as the $2.03 that we realized this quarter was over 13 years ago and it was in the first quarter of 1999.
Our average gas price this quarter decreased 52% as compared to the $4.19 we had -- we've realized in the second quarter of 2011.
Our realized gas price was 91% of the NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
Our average gas price for the first 6 months of 2012 decreased 43% to $2.34 per Mcf as compared to the $4.08 that we realized in the first half of last year.
Our realized price was 94% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the first 6 months of 2012.
On Slide 11 we cover our oil and gas sales.
The 6% production growth we had this quarter and more importantly the 267% growth in our oil production offset much but not all of the impact of the 52% decline in natural gas prices.
As a result our sales were about 7% less this quarter than they were in the second quarter of last year at $105 million as compared to $112 million we had in the second quarter of 2011.
Our oil sales now make up 58% of total sales this quarter as compared to making up only 14% of total sales in the second quarter of last year.
For the first 6 months of 2012 sales have increased 7% to $215 million as compared to $200 million for the same period in 2011.
Our oil accounted for 52% of our total sales in the first half of 2012 as compared to only 14% of our total sales in the first half of last year.
Earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX decreased by 14% to $75 million from the $87 million we had in the second quarter of 2011 which is all shown on Slide 12.
EBITDAX for the first 6 months of 2012 has increased 1% to $154 million from 2011's $152 million.
Slide 13 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $61 million which is 20% lower than cash flow of $77 million in 2011's second quarter.
Our operating cash flow for the first half of this year was $128 million a 4% decrease from the 2011's operating cash flow of $133 million.
On Slide 14 we outlined our earnings.
We reported a net loss of $10.3 million this quarter or $0.22 per share as compared to earnings of $3.9 million or $0.08 per share in 2011's second quarter.
For the first 6 months of 2012 we reported a net loss of $3.4 million or $0.07 per share as compared to earnings of $6.4 million or $0.13 per share for the same period in 2011.
The year-to-date financial results in both periods include several unusual items.
For the second quarter the reported net loss includes a gain of $20.3 million or $13.2 million after-tax or $0.28 per share that we realized on the sale of the properties we divested of in the quarter and a $5.3 million impairment or $3.4 million after-tax or $0.07 per share on certain natural gas properties that we impaired during the quarter.
The first 6 months of 2012 included gains of $27.1 million or $17.6 million after-tax or $0.38 per share on the property sales.
It also includes gains of $26.6 million $17.3 million after-tax or $0.37 per share on sales of our Stone Energy shares and then it also included $6.7 million in impairments or $4.4 million after-tax or $0.09 per share.
Excluding all of these items we would've reported a net loss of about $0.43 per share this quarter and $0.73 per share for the first 6 months of 2012.
On Slide 15 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter.
Lifting cost on this chart is comprised of 3 components: production taxes transportation and then other field level operating costs.
In the quarter our total lifting costs came in at $0.97 per Mcfe as compared to $0.85 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2011.
However our lifting cost did improve from the $1.03 per Mcfe produced that we averaged in the first quarter of this year.
The increase year-over-year is mainly due to the higher cost of the oil production that are now making up a greater share of our production versus the very low cost of the Haynesville gas production that dominated last year's production.
In the quarter production taxes were $0.13 per Mcfe transportation cost averaged $0.29 and the field operating cost averaged $0.55 this quarter as compared to the $0.51 rate we had in the second quarter of 2011.
On Slide 16 we show our cash G&amp;A expense produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative costs were up slightly to $0.22 per Mcfe produced in the second quarter as compared to the $0.21 per Mcfe we had in the second quarter of 2011 and in the first quarter of this year.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 17.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the second quarter averaged $3.59 per Mcfe as compared to the $3.12 rate we had in the second quarter of 2011 and the $3.24 rate we averaged in the first quarter of this year.
The low natural gas prices especially on the last 12-month basis which is used to calculate reserves that we calculate DD&amp;A on drove up the DD&amp;A rate this quarter.
Because now the 12-month average SEC price is now low enough the cost of the exclusion of a substantial amount of our undeveloped natural gas reserves from proved reserves.
The increased rate is also slightly due to the higher cost of the oil production that we're now producing also.
So as the 12-month average SEC price starts to improve we can see it having those undeveloped reserves come back into the equation and then sometime in the future be able to drive the DD&amp;A rates back down.
On Slide 18 we detail our drilling expenditures.
We spent $313 million on drilling and completing wells in the first 6 months of 2012 which happens to be the exact same amount we spent in the same period last year.
We spent those dollars we spent $93 million of those dollars in our East Texas North Louisiana region; $140 million in our South Texas region; and then $80 million in our new West Texas region.
To date in 2012 70% of our joint expenditures have been spent drilling oil wells as compared to only 21% of our expenditures last year were for oil projects.
On Slide 19 we break out our revised capital budget.
After taking into account the new drilling venture with KKR and then after adding a third rig to our Eagle Ford program and then adding more horizontal wells to our West Texas program which Mark will go over in more detail in a few minutes we are adjusting our drilling budget for this year to $475 million.
We now expect to drill 81 wells this year 12 gas wells and 69 oil wells.
Our spending this year has been very front-end loaded.
And now with the joint venture in place we expect our cash flow to actually exceed our drilling expenditures in the second half of this year.
On Slide 20 we recap our balance sheet at the end of the second quarter.
At the end of the quarter on June 30 we had $4 million in cash and then $15 million in marketable securities on hand.
We had $1.2 billion of total debt comprised of about $883 million of our senior notes and then $340 million outstanding on our refined credit facility.
After the bond offering that we completed in early June our borrowing base is now at $569 million with $229 million available.
Our equity accounts were just over $1 billion which is making our debt 54% of our total book capitalization.
I'll now turn it over to Mark to kind of review our operating results in detail.
Thanks Roland.
On Slide 21 we recap our activity in our East Texas/North Louisiana region so far this year.
In the first quarter we drilled 3 operated Haynesville wells 2.5 net before we moved our 2 operated drilling rigs out of this region.
We participated in another 4 non-operated wells 0.7 net so far this year.
We completed all but 1 of our operated Haynesville shale wells and still have 3 or 0.3 net non-operated Haynesville shale wells waiting to be completed.
We will be able to exploit our 7 Tcfe of Haynesville and Bossier resource potential in the future when improved gas prices provide economics competitive with our oil projects.
Slide 22 shows our West Texas region and the 91 000 gross and 50 000 net acres that we have.
Our activity this year will be focused on Reeves County and the properties we acquired from Eagle Oil &amp; Gas at the end of last year.
The Reeves County acreage provides us over 900 net vertical locations targeting the Wolfbone and 178 million BOE of resource potential.
We have a proven and successful vertical program on our acreage but we think there is significant upside with horizontal development in the Avalon Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations on our Reeves County acreage.
Recently other operators in the area have had strong results from horizontal Bone Spring and Wolfcamp wells around our acreage.
Slide 23 shows our Reeves County acreage and highlights the latest 8 vertical Wolfbone wells we reported on to date.
So far in 2012 we have drilled 17 vertical wells 14.2 net all of these are successful.
Since closing on the acquisition we have drilled and completed 13 operated vertical Wolfbone wells.
These wells were drilled to total depths between 11 370 and 12 786 feet and completed with 5 to 11 frac stages.
These wells have an average per well initial production rate of 374 BOE per day of which it's about 78% oil.
Our vertical Wolfbone wells continue to be some of the best vertical oil wells in the play.
Of the 8 new wells reported on this quarter 3 wells had initial production rates over 400 BOE per day including the Pat Garrett 38 #1 at 489; the Buffalo Bill 9 #1 at 517; and the Trigger 40 #1 at 419 BOE per day.
Slide 24 shows the 33 operated wells in our Wolfbone field including the 8 we completed in the second quarter.
The 33 wells had an average per well initial production rate of 311 BOE per day.
The 30-day rate for the 31 wells that have produced that loan averaged 84% of their initial rate.
And over a longer period of 90 days the rates have averaged 67% of the initial rate.
We will continue to monitor results and adjust the completion approach but we are very encouraged that some of the most recent wells had impressive IP rates and are so far well above our average Wolfbone tight curve.
Slide 25 shows you the location of these 33 wells from the previous slide.
The 4 wells with the highest IP rates so far the Dale Evans the Pat Garrett the Buffalo Bill and the Jessie James are highlighted on this map.
Slide 26 shows where we plan to drill for the remainder of this year.
Our drilling program is targeted at holding leases so we cannot just focus on drilling where we see the best results.
We have 3 wells currently drilling shown as red stars.
One of these the Monroe 35 #1-H is our first horizontal well targeting the Wolfcamp formation.
We are currently drilling the horizontal portion of this well.
We are completing 3 wells shown in red triangles on the map.
We're also conducting a micro seismic frac study with 2 of these completions to test the effectiveness of our completions.
The red dots show the locations that are currently in our drill schedule which include our second Wolfcamp horizontal well the Dale Evans 196 #2-H.
You've seen this slide before but Slide 27 shows where we think our program is headed and it's really headed to horizontal development.
This slide shows the various targets in the Reeves County.
Also shown are the potential completion types that we anticipate will be prospective on our acreage including vertical and horizontal completions.
On the ledges of conventional vertical Wolfbone well showing the primary 1 500 feet of completion interval in the Wolfbone and an additional 1 000 to 1 500 feet of completion potential in the upper Wolf -- in the upper Bone Spring.
In addition to that we believe there are several horizontal targets in the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp that may significantly improve the economics of the play.
We have up to 4 horizontal Wolfcamp wells scheduled this year which will target the Wolfcamp shale.
Other operators in the area are actively pursuing horizontal opportunities in the Bone Spring and various benches of the Wolfcamp.
The horizontal aspects of this play is just emerging so there is much science to be applied before it can be verified but we are very excited with the initial results we've seen from other operators and to have such a prime position in this basin.
Moving on to the South Texas region.
On Slide 28 we cover our South Texas operations where all the activity is on our oil-focused Eagle Ford shale play.
We have 30 000 -- 35 000 gross acres and 28 000 net acres in the oil window of the Eagle Ford shale and this has not changed from the previous quarter.
Based on 80-acre spacing we believe we have 277 horizontal locations including the wells we've already drilled.
We have excluded some of our northern acreage and any acreage that we think is un-drillable from this estimate.
The average gross EUR is 500 000 barrels of oil equivalent for the 5 separate tight curve areas that we use in our program.
After deducting royalties and the interest that our new partner will earn in the joint venture we estimate our properties will yield 78 million BOE of which over 80% is oil.
Slides 29 and 30 show the results and locations of the 35 wells which are currently producing.
We completed 8 more Eagle Ford shale wells since our last update and they are listed as wells 28 through 35 in this chart.
The 8 new wells had an average per well initial production rate of 635 BOE per day.
These wells were primarily drilled in the company's northern acreage in Atascosa La Salle and McMullen counties in order to meet primary term lease obligations.
All of these wells are being produced under the company's restricted choke program.
Longer-term results -- longer-term production results from the first 29 Eagle Ford shale wells which have produced more than 90 days have confirmed the benefit of our choke back program.
Our first 35 wells had an initial rate of 686 BOE per day.
The 30-day rate for the 31 wells that have produced that long have averaged 510 BOE per day which is 76% of their initial rate.
And over a longer period of 90 days the rates have averaged 68% of the initial rate.
The restricted choke program also extends the time before artificial lift is needed.
In the second half of this year we plan to begin more development drilling which will allow for additional cost efficiencies associated with multi-pad development and we'll also be targeting our higher IP wells in the southern part of our acreage.
Slide 30 shows the location of the 35 producing Eagle Ford wells that were listed on the previous slide.
I'll now turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Mark and thank you Roland.
If everybody will turn to Slide 31 despite the 13-year low natural gas prices that Roland had mentioned earlier we experienced this quarter we are having a successful year.
The strong growth on our oil production has offset most of the impact of the low natural gas prices.
We expect oil to comprise 15% to 18% of 2012 production and over 20% of production at the end of the year.
92% of the net wells we will drill in 2012 will be oil wells and 78% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
Even though overall production this year may only grow about 5% after the divestitures we completed this quarter we expect our oil production to grow by more than 200% over last year.
Our Eagle Ford shale program will be our largest growth engine this year.
The recently completed Permian acquisition gives us another oil growth engine and we're in the middle of one of the hottest oil plays in the country and sitting on great acreage position.
In addition to a proven and profitable vertical drilling program we see tremendous upside in future horizontal development in the emerging Wolfcamp shale and we're drilling our first horizontal Wolfcamp as Mark mentioned we're drilling it now and we plan to drill another 3 later this year.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
We've completed several transactions this year to enhance our financial profile and liquidity post the Permian acquisition and the fall in natural gas prices.
And we reduced leverage this year by completing asset divestitures which generated net proceeds of $184 million.
We also competed a bond offering on June 5 to free up over $200 million of our bank borrowing base.
We'll utilize an oil price hedging strategy to protect the acquisition and our focused drilling program on oil.
The new joint venture agreement we announced today with KKR will allow us to balance our operating cash flow and drilling expenditures and gives the company a strong financial partner to help us pursue other growth opportunities.
For the rest of the call we'll take questions only from research analysts who follow the stock.
So we'll turn it back over to you Janeda.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> A question on the JV.
The 100 wells have those been predetermined? Like the locations is it certain areas? Or are you all driving the boat on those locations of the first 100 wells? No Brian this is Roland.
The first 100 wells have not been predetermined and that will be proposed by Comstock as we choose to proceed drilling.
So obviously there's an idea of what this year's program looks like.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And you currently have 2 wells -- I'm sorry 2 rigs running in the Eagle Ford.
I'm assuming -- is that going to be increased as you go into '13? Brian this is Mark.
Right now we have 1 and we have another one coming next week which will make it 2 and then we have a third rig that is contracted for about December 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then one final question.
The increase to 4 horizontal rigs in the Delaware the first is targeting Wolfcamp.
Are all 4 going to be targeting the Wolfcamp or are you going to try to test other zones as well? This is Mark again.
They will all target Wolfcamp but probably not all in the same bench of the Wolfcamp.
Your next question comes from the line of Kim Pacanovsky with MLV &amp; Co.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if you have any thoughts on the Pearsall what you're seeing in activity your monitoring and any plans to test it yourself? Kim this is Mark.
We are monitoring it very closely and are cautiously optimistic about the results we see.
We like some of the results but it's just so early in the play.
We do plan to drill a couple of our wells as pilot holes and get data and get good new vintage logs and core data across the Pearsall to better evaluate it.
So that's really the extent of our plan this year.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> And so that would be a 2012 event later in the year? Yes.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And do you have any opportunity to add acreage in McMullen County and the Hill area where you've had such excellent results? Kim I believe most acreage is tied up by the real players out there right now a lot of opportunity in the McMullen area at this time.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching over to the Wolfbone what's controlling the number of stages that you're completing in those wells? And could you just remind me of what the range in costs are there? Kim as far as the range in cost we're between $4.5 million and $5 million right now.
We're still doing some experimenting with whether or not to drill some of the deeper part of the Wolfcamp the what we call the red sand and the yellow sand.
And so in some areas we're drilling it and that adds frac stages.
In some areas we're not drilling it.
It kind of depends on the results we've seen in that area.
And then every well is -- the perforations are picked with the detailed logs that we run and the correlations.
So each well is a little bit unique in terms of how many different perforation clusters that we're applying so then you pick your stages kind of based on how me perforation clusters.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then a big picture question maybe for Jay.
You said that in the second half of this year your cash flow will exceed your drilling CapEx.
Next year is the goal just to drill within cash flow? Or do you actually want to pay down debt? Well our goal is to drill within cash flow as a minimum and a better goal would be to pay down debt so that's our priority.
We want to stay within operating cash flow but Kim 52% 53% 54% net debt to cap is a little bit too high for us we think.
We think our reserves will qualify for that.
In the older days as you know it used to be 60% and today it's more like maybe in the 40s.
So I think we should reduce that but we do not plan to incur debt in 2013 by drilling or completing wells.
The other thing we are looking Kim you asked about the Pearsall we do think that maybe 82% of our acreage is in the Pearsall fairway.
So as Mark said we may or may not drill a well this year in the Pearsall but we've taken a hard look at it.
I know Cabot and Cheyenne and others are in the play.
And so if we need to drill a well there we can.
That's a good question thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just real quick on your first horizontal Wolfcamp well there what is the AFE on that well? Leo this is Mark.
Our initial AFE is 9.5 million and that's pretty well in line when we started our Eagle Ford program and we did kind of the full experimentation so we're pretty much in line with that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and how many frac stages did you guys plan? And how long is that lateral? It's about a 4 000-foot lateral or a little bit more and it'll probably be 10 to 15 stages.
We haven't designed the frac on it yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when should we expect to see results of that? Probably with the third quarter conference call because the it's the 1st of September completion and by the we get all of our data we're probably looking at 1st of October or later.
Yes really Leo what really happened is we'll file a report with the railroad commission and you'll pick it up and you'll know the results I mean before we have the conference call.
That's the real world.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I got you.
I guess your oil price seemed particularly high in the second quarter if I just looked at on an unhedged basis.
I think it was about $5 above WTI differential improved from the prior quarter just any kind of color around that? Yes Leo this is Roland.
That's all the Eagle Ford and the Eagle Ford participates more in the Gulf Coast-type market and that's really a function of the wider basis that we saw between WTI and Brent which is where the Gulf Coast is more influenced by.
So we have pretty wide differentials again now so it's fairly volatile.
We saw it improve from the first quarter but it's whatever Brent versus WTI are doing we get to participate in some of that premium in the Eagle Ford.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just last question I know it was kind of a small number but if I look at the way you all give some production detail on your earnings release your other oil production was up a fair bit this quarter versus prior quarters.
Are you guys potentially involved in any kind of new play or maybe there was new oil well that you guys haven't talked about yet? Yes Leo there was a well where we were non-operating -- non-operator in in South Louisiana that reached a payout status and we had a pretty good oil accrual on that well and that bumped that number up a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wolfbone looks strong and getting stronger.
I was just hoping you could quantify the percentage improvement you've made in the IP rates since you've actually taken over that acreage and applied the new the new completion technique to those vertical wells.
Remember our starting goal was 200 barrels a day average for 30 days and then Mark can go over what's happened since the first 3 wells.
I mean we've improved greatly.
Yes I think if I recall I don't have the numbers in front of me but I think the first wells were -- the first group of wells was about 280 BOE per day.
And now we're up over 370 on the last group of wells.
So we're looking at maybe 30% to 40% improvement in performance and we're still fine-tuning.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's great...
Mike as we've said if you drill to the kind of the west I mean that's not a great vertical play.
We think it's a really good horizontal play.
And we drill these wells north south east and west.
If you go east or you go kind of southeast or northeast we're at the better wells.
So we blended all that in so we're giving you a number that's not skewed toward the better part of the play.
We're giving you a number that's encompasses the entire footprint of that 44 000 net acres.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And you did mention that you -- and the results seem to really to confirm this that you are ahead of the tight curve right now.
Would you be willing or when would you be willing to actually go out there and revise that tight curve part? When we say year end we always look at reserves at year end so we're looking at a year end but they should go up not down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then moving over to the JV I was just hoping to get a little bit more color on the mechanics of this.
It looks like KKR is on the hook to pay you essentially an acreage fee for each well drilled in -- to the tune of around $667 000 per well.
I was wondering if you can confirm my math on that.
And also just kind of what pace do you expect to see here once you get the full the second and third rig up and running and how many gross wells could you drill in 2013? We started going through this JV process back in January and we had several proposals from some quality partners.
And what we were really looking for was more of an oil and gas partner not really a financial partner but more of an oil and gas type partner that your preference would be that they've been in the area before because what they can do is they can stamp approval on the 28 000 net acres that we have and say "I've been in and out of this area before I like it I like your program." We didn't Mike we didn't want to be locked in by a big prepayment upfront that would cause us to drill wells over the next 3 or 4 or 5 years if oil prices went south.
So we wanted a win-win.
We're as you know we want total flexibility.
Our goal this year was to transition to oil from dry gas and yet at the same time keep our 7 Tcfe of upside our resource upside in the Haynesville/Bossier.
So what KKR did is they came in.
They're very strong financially they looked at all of our acreage and we came up with a program that said "Well we want to decide where the wells will be drilled." Like someone had asked the question earlier have the 100 locations been agreed upon? No because as we drill these wells Comstock as the operator wants the right to say "Here's where we want to drill the next 10 20 30 wells whatever." And we want flexibility and we'll drill some of these on PUD sites.
We should have efficiencies and scale.
We should have lower cost because of the PUD sites.
We should be able to drill more of the southeastern parts in some of these wells.
So with the KKR deal we said well like Roland said we've got the 28 000 net acres.
But if you net that you net-net-net out acres that we think are not very profitable right now and you net out acres that we drilled on we have 277 locations.
We really have about 350 locations.
Maybe we drill 350 but maybe we only drilled 20 30 100 or 277.
So what we've done with KKR we said look it has to be a win-win.
We want to decide where to drill and how to complete.
You can add some input but that's not the intent.
The intent is for us to be the operator and you'd be a passive working interest on it really.
So they're going to pay for 26.7 acres.
They're going to pay us $667 000 so a 100-well program out of the 28 000 net acres what do they get? They get 2 167 acres and they pay $67 million for that.
So what does that do for us? It gives us total flexibility.
We're not obligated to drill a bunch of wells been that shouldn't be drilled.
They provided capital for us to be more efficient so we can accelerate the Eagle Ford.
And at the same time what it does it allows us to have capital to develop which you just mentioned the Wolfcamp or the Wolfbone properties in the Permian which we think have 178 million barrels of upside.
So this is a great program.
It's a little different than being strapped in and tied up during good times and bad times for prices.
We don't want to do that and we chose not to do that.
And I think this JV is a win-win for everybody which is kind of unusual.
Somebody's usually a big loser.
This is not structured like that at all.
And Mike I would add that the 100 wells is just the minimum that they have committed to definitely do but the expectation is that they will participate in the full development of this field and we will continue to earn the $25 000 per net acre all the way through every well drilled and that's the expectation.
If Comstock wants to drill those wells there's no reason why we wouldn't assume that they would want to continue to participate.
And Mike that number is $230 million to maybe $250 million.
I mean it's a big number.
Yes.
The acreage number is if it all gets developed it's $233 million.
The $67 million is just the part that there's a commitment there so we can plan for the next year or so.
Really probably 2 years that 100 wells is probably something we'll develop in about 2 years probably from that March 31 start date.
So it gives us efficiencies and flexibility in that Tier 1 oil play.
It also gives us efficiencies and flexibility in the Permian.
And quite frankly 2 or 3 years from now who knows if gas is $5 this JV structure gives you the flexibility to drill some gas wells instead of being locked in to drill oil wells.
It may or may not be economic depending upon the price.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess just quickly on the JV first.
Can you break out the allocation of the roughly $58 million number you had in the CapEx disclosures around the JV? How is that going to be I guess allocated between let's say future drilling capital for KKR versus a carry on acreage? Michael we don't really have that exact number in front of us but basically that number represents if you look at our budget we're going to incur we think that's going to be the part that's attributable to them either to purchase acreage or to pay for their share of drilling costs through December 31 so it's basically a way to come up with our exact budget.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess maybe I'll come at it -- one different angle is how much of that $58 million do you know is allocated to the kind of makeup payment for the second quarter? For those wells there are -- we did spud a -- since March 31 I think there is about 11 wells that have been drilled or even at least spudded by now in various states of being completed.
So none of those wells were producing in the second quarter.
Only 4 of those wells have IP results.
I think the last 4 on our chart are the 4 that would be in the deal which all came on production in July.
So...
Research Division</strong> That's like 1/3 interest in 11 wells and you [ph] carry on 11 wells and then whatever the remainder is is for the rest of the year? Right yes.
And basically all the wells are in the budget.
And then the part that we think is going to get billed out including those 11 wells is that $58 million plus any acreage costs attributable to any wells that actually gets spud this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then I guess last one on the JV is KKR at all limited in its ability to let's say assign this agreement to a sponsor entity so another private company? Or do they have to keep this in house at KKR like straight to KKR? We probably don't want to comment on real details like that on the agreement.
Right.
That won't impact us so we rather not comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I guess switching to the Permian program obviously getting some increased confidence on the horizontal program given offset results.
Can you talk to the other -- you mentioned the first horizontal spud in September maybe results by the third quarter call what's the kind of timing I guess on the other 3 horizontal wells? I'm assuming are those just going to be really be 2013 impacts? Michael this is Mark.
The second well is scheduled to spud August 4.
We should have results and some impact from it later in the year.
And then the other wells are in October through December.
So they really won't impact production.
We may get results by the end of the year conference call probably be kind of what we'll be looking for there.
Research Division</strong> Okay but may tailwind into 2013.
I guess the only last one on my end is you spent or you talked to the 30% to 40% improvement in kind of initial rates.
Would you expect or is there any reason not to expect the uptick in EUR on the verticals to be similar order of magnitude? Or how should we think about that? Yes Michael I would not expect 30 -- and in fact I went to do the calculation while I was sitting here and it was a 35% increase from the 18 producing wells when we took over in the last 8.
So that's the increase in IP rate.
I do not expect the EUR increase that much.
I do expect maybe in the 20% range but some of it is just that high initial rate flush production that you get out of this these fracs and so I do expect a good increase but not 35%.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On the joint venture is that only -- does that only cover the Eagle Ford to the extent you have 82% of your acreage do you think is in the Pearsall fairway? Does that include Pearsall rights or just Eagle Ford? It includes any rights on that acreage so the obligation though to drill -- the obligation to participate wells is for an Eagle Ford well though so they could -- if we drill the Pearsall well they could choose to be in it they could choose not to because it's not something that's been evaluated.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the CapEx your new CapEx budget of kind of in the $475 million versus the $313 million that you spent in the first half would imply plus or minus an $80 million run rate the second half of the year.
How does that coincide with your plan to add a third rig in the Eagle Ford? I think Mark said in December.
And as we look ahead to next year if you enter with 4 rigs in the Permian and 3 in the Eagle Ford is your quarterly run rate still looking -- do you think it will still be $80 million $85 million or do you think it would be something higher than that? If you look at the budget it does -- we do incorporate all these newest assumptions adding the rigs when they're scheduled to come in the third rig.
The third rig is not there for a long period of time this year.
So next year we'd be looking at a little larger Eagle Ford program in total because it would be more indicative of a 3 -- I think this year's budget for the Eagle Ford is more or less a 2-rig program and we've had periods where we had -- that we'll have 3.
We've had a couple -- a month or so where we had 1 and so slightly over 2.
For next year we would see a little larger Eagle Ford program.
Of course the joint venture will cover 1/3 of that cost.
The -- so I mean next year on the -- part of what's of course going to happen as you could tell is that some of the dollars we have reported in capital expenditures in the second quarter are actually going to be rebilled to the joint venture.
So some of the costs in the first part of the year that are already been incurred we're going to reimbursed for.
And -- but if you do look at the net effect to us for the second half of the year we will be in that -- that number's like you said running at an average rate of less than $100 million that's $80 million to $100 million taking all that into account.
Next year's program we would see -- we really haven't set that yet so we're going to kind of see how the horizontals work in the Wolfbone and kind of see what the CapEx looks for that program.
The Eagle Ford we're kind of want to start out with a 3-rig program and if we can afford it we'd like to move that up to a 4-rig program.
So a lot of it is still to be determined based on the outlook for oil prices.
Are we able to lock in oil prices as we go forward for next year? We've got about half of that done as we can get high prices that really helps.
And then what are gas prices? Because we still produce a lot of gas and a little bit of increase in gas prices adds a lot of cash flow.
So there's a lot of variables but we've got all the tools to balance that and so we'll set the program's pace based on what cash flow is going to be.
But the second half of the year given the commodity price outlook that's out there right now we should be very balanced in the second 6 months of this year.
First 6 months of this year we outspent our cash flow but we did sell a lot of assets.
And if you combine that we really funded most of that overspend with proceeds from asset sales.
And a lot of that went to the Haynesville remember which we have 0 rigs running in the Haynesville.
Right.
It's 2 different chapters so I think it'll be a different looking program.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> The JV in the Eagle Ford covers the undeveloped acreage what I mean by that is any wells spud are only getting spud after March 31.
So of your 28 000 acres how much remains to be -- is remaining as undeveloped that they can earn that 1/3 interest in? That's a good question.
There are 31 producing wells that they will not have an interest in.
And those 31 producing wells would have somewhere around 2 400 acres that are attributable to them.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's off of your 28 000 net acres it's really -- they have the right to participate in for 1/3 of 25.6? Right.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then 2 last short ones on the production side you -- your oil production remains unchanged from your prior guidance.
Implicit in that is there some kind of oil production guidance increase? Because I'm assuming your new guidance takes into account the 33% interest that KKR would participate in for the future wells? And if so is that just driven by well performance in both the Eagle Ford and Permian? Well there's a combination of a lot of factors at play which gave us unchanged outlook for our oil production.
Some of the wells that we were -- that originally were in our production forecast they'll own 1/3 interest of that production.
Some of those wells start producing in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter.
But then we've also had we're having really good performance in Wolfbone so that's been a positive.
And as far as picking it up in performance longer-term performance of the Eagle Ford wells themselves.
So that and a little bit of additional work by getting that although it won't add a lot to production this year but the timing of when we were able to drill some wells got -- we were able to move those up a little bit.
And so all that combined got us very close to those same numbers.
But the stage is set for probably better growth for next year because we will have extra work done and so we start next year -- we would have a better oil price outlook than we might have otherwise if we just stayed with our current program.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Mark the last one is for you.
On the horizontal Wolfcamp you talked about the initial cost.
When you start looking at it from a program return standpoint what do you think your horizontal wells in the Permian can cost? And what kind of EURs would you expect from the Wolfcamp and at what point do you think you would think about either testing the Bone Spring or the Avalon probably more the Bone Spring because it's more oily? Well Ron that's a whole conference call by itself all those questions.
I would say cost-wise we probably will move our cost in the Eagle Ford from initial time to the full development down at least $1 million with just development of your strategy plus the operational efficiencies of multi-pad drilling.
So eventually I would expect our cost in the Wolfbone to be similar in the $8 million to $8.5 million range once we get into full development mode.
There is one Wolfcamp producer in the field and it's produced for 2 months so I'm not going to venture and put out a number on EUR yet.
I mean we expect it to be significant but we have to get out and prove that number.
So really I'm not going to go down that road.
As far as Bone Spring we think some of our acreage has good Bone Spring potential in the third Bone and we do like the log characteristics of the upper very much but there's just been very little testing so far so we're too early to put any numbers on that.
Ron we do like what we've seen and what the offset operators have shown us well enough to not only drill 1 or 2 or 3 but 4 this year.
So that's a good indicator.
We're out of whack we like what we see it should be good.
So you can choose which one.
Your next question comes from the line of Cameron Horwitz with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Just in the Wolfbone can you just talk a little bit about kind of what you've learned from the work you've done in the vertical wells when it comes to how you're completing the horizontal wells and kind of what zones you're thinking about landing in and just kind of how confident are you out of the gate in terms of those completions? Yes this is Mark.
Well I'll answer the last one first we're very confident.
Based on our vertical results we're very confident that we're going to get very encouraging results.
We're targeting zones that produce the most oil based on our production log analysis of our vertical wells and also have the right log characteristics and the right lateral extent to be able to land a horizontal and drill 4 000 or 5 000 feet.
So that's kind of how we're picking them and we're really -- it will be different in each area of the field and we have multiple good targets in some of the fields.
So we're going to do a little testing of different Wolfcamp benches primarily kind of in the upper and middle Wolfcamp to start with.
But we've got some lower Wolfcamp that looks very good.
And then between us and that stuff that Concho is doing and Clayton Williams and other operators I think a lot of data will be available to analyze over the next 6 to 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay great that's helpful.
And then just lastly in the Gaines County acreage what's the game plan there? Any potential to monetize that acreage or what's the outlook? No no potential right now unless whoever bought that deal from Noble the other day wants to come and give us the same thing for ours then we'll be happy to talk to them.
Our goal would be to test it next year at some point.
And evaluate it in and then go forward.
Remember we had say $500 an acre in it and we'd accumulated 20 000 gross about 12 000 net acres.
And we think it's very prospective but we didn't have it in our budget in 2012.
So like Mark said we'll budget to drill a well or 2 in probably 2013.
And remember back to the Delaware Basin in Reeves County? The one reason that we like this when we looked at it in the fourth quarter of 2011 was it was overpressured and we've been in an overpressure basin in the Haynesville/Bossier.
So when you look at that we expected the wells to produce a little better than what had historically been the numbers.
And so far we've been right on that.
But it's attributable to the location where we are in the county.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Just turning to the balance sheet and looking at the ratios of debt to cap and long-term debt to EBITDA for example is there an internal goal or what might those ratios look like at say at the end of this year at the end of next year based on your own internal models and assumptions? And included in those assumptions -- are asset monetizations included in those assumptions? Dan this is Roland.
I think a couple of things are happening and of course if you would tell us what the gas price will be we can answer that question easily.
But as the oil becomes a bigger percentage of the revenues it's improving those ratios just especially the coverage ratios pretty dramatically as it takes over more of the production.
Better gas prices make a dramatic difference and we do plan to of course monetize the rest of our marketable securities and so that's definitely in the works.
And we'll evaluate monetizing maybe some other conventional assets probably with a better natural gas kind of curve out there.
But in the long run those are definitely things that we plan to do plan to work on the balance sheet.
I think as gas prices improve from this very low level they're at now we look dramatically different.
Dan we do have 2 3 areas that we could monetize properties in Dan but not at a $3 $3.20 gas price.
We'd look at those.
Our 3 big areas that are Tier 1 areas are the Haynesville/Bossier is one and then the Eagle Ford is 2 and the Permian is 3 not in any particular order.
But everything else would be "prospects" to be sold.
Got it.
And what price deck are you assuming in your plan to be cash flow neutral in the back half of this year? We just look at the current NYMEX prices if they stay where they are.
If they improve that will be a plus.
And can you remind me what percentage of your leasehold in South Texas and now West Texas is held by production? A large percentage in South Texas because the Eagle Ford -- the drilling obligation to the Eagle Ford we've done a lot of it this year.
Well and we showed you that.
We only have 1 rig drilling in Eagle Ford right now.
So like Roland said I don't know what percent of it is but majority of it is.
Yes.
There's a -- it's a very complicated answer because there are different leases with some continuous drilling but it's not a -- it's an area that we have a lot of latitude not to invest less in next year for just lease retention.
Our biggest lease retention issues are in the West Texas area where they have a lot of leases still to earn.
That's why we're still drilling a lot of vertical wells because it's the most efficient way to earn those leases.
Okay got it.
And then one last one if I may you speak to spacing units of 80 acres in the JV press release.
Is that considered optimal? What's the plan to test down-spacing here maybe over the balance of this year and certainly in 2013? Dan this is Mark.
Well the 80 acres for us is a 500-foot between well spacing.
We really look at it more as between wells than acreage although that's what it averages out is 80 acres.
But we believe that the optimal distance is -- based on the micro seismic we've done all the work that we've seen published from all the other operators we think that 500 feet is pretty optimal at this point.
We have 2 wells that we're frac-ing soon that will test that spacing pattern and 2 additional wells planned a little bit later in the year to -- as further test of that spacing pattern.
But we're really moving forward with that development plan at this time.
And then obviously we will test an increased density on top of that once we get that data.
But it just doesn't do any good to test an increased density when you don't now know these are going to act.
Your next question comes from the line of John Selser with Iberia Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> I apologize if you've already touched on this.
But the horizontal locations in Reeves County you've identified the first 2 and there's been some pretty good activity overall in the Eastern part would that be where the -- you say the third well would go? It's Mark.
We're working on several potential locations and there's a lot of land work that we're doing and analysis so I really don't want to say where the other 2 are going to be at this time.
But we like we do like that East area I'll say that.
And this concludes the Q&amp;A session for today's call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jay Allison for any closing remarks.
All right again thank you for participating in the conference call.
We've worked really hard to put together a win-win JV to create wealth on the shareholder base.
We want flexibility.
Again we've tried to demonstrate that we are transitioning to oil from dry gas and at the same time not giving up any of our 7 Tcfe of resource potential in the Haynesville/Bossier.
I think that the agreement that we've structured is unusual.
It may take a day or 2 to digest it because it's not a cookie-cutter model which I think it's a better model.
It's a custom model for what we need because it does give us flexibility as Mark mentioned to be more efficient in the Eagle Ford.
And at the same time I mean if the Eagle Ford is good as we all think it is I mean we'll receive anywhere from $67 million to $230 million and promote with KKR the right way because it will be based upon successful wells that we drilled.
It also gives us flexibility on the Permian probably 1/2 of the questions were asked about the Permian.
And we do -- well you can feel our excitement about the horizontal wells that we'll be drilling in the Permian.
And at the same time we don't want to give up the strength we have in our natural gas field.
That's probably the single most prolific dry gas field in North America is the Haynesville.
So we don't want to get rid of that.
We want to keep it inventoried.
At some point in time natural gas will come back.
And then we had several questions asked about financial flexibility.
We have $230 million undrawn on our bank line.
The one reason that we went with a kind of a KKR is that we didn't really want to sell existing production and we didn't want to sell our reserves that were predeveloped producing which would cause another redetermination of our borrowing base.
We didn't see why we should do that.
We presented to the world that we want to keep our oil production and grow it which we have and we want to add to the Eagle Ford drilling program which we did.
And we want to do that with the proper flexibility which hopefully you see that we've demonstrated.
So we'll continue to honor what we said we'd do and create wealth on a per share basis.
And again thank you for participating in the conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2012 Comstock Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Rachel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I now would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Allison President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Rachel.
Before I start the third quarter results I'd like to kind of have an opening comment from the company.
For those of us who really don't live on the East Coast we're not directly hit by Superstorm Sandy it's is really kind of somber morning it's a strange morning.
We've been doing this for 24 years and it's a strange morning not have your stock trading.
As you know Ron and I has spent a lot of times in the past 23 years on the East Coast region marketing the Comstock story.
So it really feels like our second home.
So please note that all of our prayers at Comstock this morning are for those impacted by Superstorm Sandy.
The 7.8 million people without power those directly in the storm's path.
It's comforting to know that Americans are strong and that the impacted region will rebound in short order.
So with that I'll open it up with the third quarter 2012 results.
If you go to the slide presentation welcome to the Comstock Resources Third Quarter 2012 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view the slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking presentations.
There you'll find a presentation titled Third Quarter 2012 Results.
I'm Jay Allison President of Comstock and with me this morning are Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our recent drilling results review our 2012 third quarter financial results.
Forward-looking statements that's on Slide 2 please refer to Slide 2 in our presentation and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations of such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
2012 third quarter highlights if you'll refer to Page 3 of the presentation will summarize our third quarter results.
The financial results this quarter continue to be impacted by the very low natural gas prices that we receive for our production.
The growing oil side of the company is helping mitigate the negative impact that the very weak natural gas prices are having on our financial results.
For the third quarter we reported revenues of $117 million generated EBITDAX of $87 million and net operating cash flow of $71 million or $1.47 a share.
We did have a net loss of $26 million or $0.56 per share.
We were able to increase our oil production by 13 % from last quarter and 238% as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Oil comprised 16% of the third quarter production and 57% of the third quarter's revenues.
We've had strong results in our 2012 drilling program which Mark will go over in a moment.
And we drilled 56 successful wells including 49 successful oil wells in our Eagle Ford and Wolfbone programs.
The increase in oil production and improving natural gas prices will have a positive impact on our future revenues and cash flow.
Our cash flow is now able to cover most of our drilling expenditures and our bank borrowing base was increased to cover the one-year $90 million advance our banks made to help us finance the Wolfbone acquisition at the end of last year.
I'll now turn it over to Roland to cover of the financial results in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 4 we show our oil production on a daily basis by quarter.
Our oil production this quarter grew by 238% to 7 200 barrels per day as compared to the third quarter last year when we produced 2 100 barrels per day.
Our Eagle Ford shale properties in South Texas shown in light blue on this chart increased to 5 000 barrels per day and is our main engine for growth this year.
We added 400 barrels per day in the Eagle Ford this quarter as compared to 4 600 barrels we averaged in the second quarter of this year.
The decrease in the rigs that we have drilling in our Eagle Ford program and the new joint venture where KKR participates for 1/3 of our interest has slowed our oil growth this quarter and for the upcoming fourth quarter.
We're adding another rig into our Eagle Ford program in late November which will bring us to 3 rigs by December.
This additional activity allows us to have strong production growth again in the region in the first quarter of next year.
Our Wolfbone properties in West Texas increased by 500 barrels this quarter to 1 900 barrels per day.
We expect to see production from this region continue to increase each quarter as we go forward.
As we look to finish up this year we're forecasting our oil production to grow approximately 190% to 200% of our last year's production to the total of 2.4 million to 2.5 million barrels in 2012.
We expect to begin 2013 well-positioned to have another strong year of oil production growth.
Slide 5 shows our natural gas production on a daily basis.
Our natural gas production decreased by 19% of the third quarter from last year to 220 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The decrease is primarily attributable to 10 million a day of production that we sold with our May property divestitures which closed in the second quarter and declines from our Haynesville properties which were at their peak production level in the third quarter of last year.
Production from our Haynesville and Bossier wells declined to 165 million per day this quarter.
The remaining 25% of our gas production had only modest declines.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells which is shown in dark blue on our chart on Slide 5 averaged 27 million per day and our South Texas gas production which is shown in red was 21 million cubic feet per day.
Our other gas production shown in purple remain the same at 7 million per day.
We are lowering our forecast for natural gas production for this year to approximately 81 to 82 Bcf which would represent a decrease of 9% to 11% from 2011's total production.
Production has to start -- our production has started to decline a little earlier than we originally anticipated and will continue to decline until we restart our drilling program at in the Haynesville Shale.
On Slide 6 we show that our realized average oil price increased 11% in the third quarter of 2012 to $97.09 per barrel as compared to $87.55 per barrel in the third quarter of 2011.
Our realized oil price averaged 105% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTL price due to the high differentials we're receiving for our Eagle Ford shale oil.
68% of our production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX WTI price of $99.53.
Including the gains from our hedges we realized $102.08 per barrel in the quarter which was 17% more than our realized price in the third quarter of 2011.
Slide 7 shows our oil prices for the first 9 months of this year.
Our realized average oil price increased 8% in the first 9 months of 2012 to $99.63 per barrel as compared to $92.59 per barrel in 2011.
Our realized oil price averaged 104% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price and 72% of our production was hedged in this period at the NYMEX WTI price of $99.43.
Including the gains from the hedges we realized $102.30 per barrel on the quarter which was 10% higher than what we realized in 2011.
For Slide 8 we outline our hedge programs for our oil production.
We have a very attractive oil hedge position which protects our drilling program for the rest of this year and for 2013.
We have 5 000 barrels a day hedged at $99.53 for the fourth quarter of this year and for next year we have 6 000 barrels hedged per day at $98.67 per barrel.
Slide 9 covers our natural gas prices.
Our average gas price of $2.46 decreased 40% this quarter as compared to the $4.09 we realized in the second quarter of -- or the third quarter of 2011.
Our realized gas prices was 88% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
Our average gas price for the first 9 months of 2012 decreased 42% to $2.37 per Mcf as compared to $4.09 for the first 3 quarters in 2011.
Our realized gas price was 92% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the first 9 months of this year.
On Slide 10 we cover our oil and gas sales.
Our oil production growth this quarter was able to offset much but not all of the impact of the 40% decline in natural gas prices.
As a result our sales decreased by 2% to $117 million in the third quarter as compared to $119 million in 2011's third quarter.
Our oil production now makes up 57% of our total sales as compared to only 14% in the third quarter of last year.
For the first 9 months of 2012 sales have increased 4% to $332 million as compared to $320 million for the first 3 quarters of 2011.
Our oil accounted for 54% of our total sales so far in 2012 as compared to only 14% last year.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX decreased by 8% to $87 million from the $94 million that we had in 2011's third quarter which is shown on Slide 11.
EBITDAX for the first 9 months of 2012 has decreased 2% to $240 million from 2011's $246 million.
Slide 12 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $71 million which was 17% lower than cash flow of $86 million in 2011's third quarter.
Our operating cash flow for first 9 months of 2012 was $199 million 9% less than the 2011's operating cash flow of $219 million for the same period.
On Slide 13 we outline our earnings.
We reported a net loss of $26 million for the quarter or $0.56 per share as compared to earnings of $1.3 million or $0.03 per share in 2011's third quarter.
For the first 9 months of this year we reported a net loss of $29.4 million or $0.63 per share compared to earnings of $7.7 million or $0.16 per share for the same period in 2011.
The quarter and the year-to-date financial results in both periods include several unusual items.
For the third quarter the reported results include a net loss on property sales of $2.8 million or $1.8 million after-tax or $0.04 per share which is primarily related to the cost incurred in the formation of our Eagle Ford shale joint venture.
We also have a $1.4 million impairment or $900 000 after-tax or $0.02 per share relating to upcoming lease expirations.
For the first 9 months of 2012 those results included a net gain of $24.3 million or $15.8 million after-tax or $0.34 per share on the property sale that we made.
Gains of $26.6 million or $17.3 million after-tax or $0.37 per share on sale of our Stone Energy shares and $8 million of impairments or $5.2 million after-tax or $0.11 per share.
If you exclude all these items we would've reported a net loss of about $0.50 per share this quarter and about $1.23 per share for first 9 months of this year.
On Slide 14 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter.
Our lifting cost is comprised of 3 different items: production taxes transportation costs and other field level operating costs.
Our total lifting cost this quarter were $1.06 per Mcfe as compared to $0.79 per Mcfe in the third quarter of 2011.
Our production taxes were $0.16 per Mcfe the transportation averaged $0.26 per Mcfe and the field operating cost averaged $0.64 this quarter which is higher than the $0.47 that we realized in the third quarter of 2011.
The lower gas production we had during the quarter and the more expensive oil production account for the higher rate that we had this quarter.
On Slide 15 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter which excludes stock-based compensation.
Our general administrative cost increased to $0.26 -- $0.20 per Mcfe produced in the third quarter of this year as compared to $0.18 per Mcfe in the third quarter of 2011.
And that difference is mainly due just to the lower production level.
Our G&amp;A did improve this quarter from the $0.22 per Mcfe that we had in the second quarter this year.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced as shown on Slide 16 and our DD&amp;A rate in the third quarter of 2012 averaged $4.10 per Mcfe as compared to $2.96 in the third quarter of 2011 and the $3.59 we averaged in the second quarter of this year.
The low natural gas prices drove up our DD&amp;A rate this quarter as the 12-month average SEC price which is used to calculate proved reserves is down low enough to cause the exclusion of 434 Bcf of our undeveloped natural gas reserves from the proved reserves calculation.
The other factor that's contributing to the increase in the DD&amp;A rate is the higher cost of our oil production which is making up the greater percentage of our total production and revenues.
On Slide 17 we detail our drilling expenditures and we have spent $402 million so far this year on drilling and completing wells as compared to $443 million spent for the same period last year.
We spent $102 million in our East Texas/North Louisiana region $161 million in our South Texas region and $139 million in our new West Texas region.
We also have spent in addition to drilling wells we spent $24 million on leasehold in the first 9 months of this year as compared to $53 million that we spent on the same period last year.
The South Texas expenditures on this chart are net of $24 million we received from our joint venture partner for participation in wells that were drilled starting in April of this year through July when the venture actually closed.
To date in 2012 75% of our drilling expenditures have been spent on drilling oil wells as compared to only 28% for the same period last year.
Slide 18 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the third quarter.
On September 30 we had $3 million in cash and $15 million in marketable securities on hand which represents our 600 000 shares of Stone Energy that we're still holding.
We also had $1.2 billion of total debt which is comprised of about $884 million of our senior notes and $355 million outstanding under our revolving credit facilities.
Yesterday our banks approved a borrowing base of $570 million which is an increase of $75 million from our conforming borrowing base of $495 million.
The growth in our conforming borrowing base allows us now to retire the nonconforming borrowing base which was $74 million that was due to expire on its own by December 31 2012.
I'll now turn it over to Mark to review our drilling results.
Thanks Roland.
On Slide 19 we recap our activity in our East Texas/North Lousiana region so far this year.
In the first quarter we drilled 3 operated Haynesville wells 2.5 net before moving our 2 operated drilling rigs out of this region.
We participated in another 4 non-operated wells so far this year and that's 0.7 net wells.
In the third quarter we completed the last of our operated Haynesville shale wells.
We still have 3 non-operated Haynesville shale wells waiting to be completed.
We'll be able to exploit our 7 Tcfe of Haynesville and Bossier resource potential in the future when improved gas prices provide economics competitive with our oil projects.
Slide 20 shows our West Texas region and the 91 000 gross and 57 000 net acres that we have.
Our activity this year is focused on Reeves County and our Wolfbone Field.
The Reeves County acreage provides us over 900 net vertical locations targeting the Wolfbone which has 178 million BOE of resource potential.
We have a proven and successful vertical program on our acreage but we think there is significant upside with horizontal development in the Avalon Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations on our acreage.
Recent horizontal activity in the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp has been encouraging and we completed our first horizontal Wolfcamp well in the third quarter.
Slide 21 is a geologic model of what goes on and what's going on in Reeves County.
You can see that our acreage is located at the deepest part of the basin and that much of our acreage has a very thick Wolfcamp section which is geopressured.
This is why we are making some of the best vertical Wolfbone wells in the area.
We plan to test several intervals within the Wolfcamp Shale to determine which benches will produce the best horizontal results.
Slide 22 shows our Reeves County acreage and highlights the latest 8 vertical Wolfbone wells we reported on today.
So far in 2012 we have drilled 29 wells 21.1 net.
All of these wells were successful.
Since closing on the acquisition of acreage in Reeves County in West Texas we have drilled and completed 20 operated vertical Wolfbone  wells and 1 horizontal Wolfcamp shale well.
The vertical wells were drilled to total depths of 11 250  to 12 786 feet and completed with 5 to 11 frac stages.
These wells have an average per well initial production rate of 356 BOE per day of which 79% is oil.
Of the 8 new operated wells reported on in the third quarter the Ponderosa State 25 #1 and the Jesse James 4 #2 each had an initial production rate of 511 BOE per day.
We also participated in 5 non-op Wolfbone vertical wells which had an average initial production rate of 350 BOE per day.
We drilled our first horizontal well the Monroe 35 #1H targeting the Wolfcamp shale formation and the results have been very positive with an initial production rate of 653 BOE per day.
This well is completed with 15 frac stages over a 3 627-foot lateral.
Our second horizontal well targeting the Wolfcamp Shale the Dale Evans 196 #2H has reached total depth at 14 584 feet with a 3 428-foot drilled lateral and is currently waiting to be completed.
Slide 23 shows the 41 operated wells in our Wolfbone field including the 8 we completed in the third quarter.
The 41 wells had an average per well IP of 322 BOE per day.
The 30-day rate for the 39 wells that are produced for that period averaged 81% of their initial rate.
Over a longer period of 90 days the rates have averaged 64% of the initial rate.
Slide 24 shows you the location of those 41 wells on our acreage.
The wells with the highest IP rates so far have been in the area of on the east in the area of the Buffalo Bill Jesse James and the Ponderosa wells.
You can see that our first horizontal well is the Monroe which is number 35 on the map.
On Slide 25 we cover our South Texas operations where all the activity is in our oil-focused Eagle Ford shale play.
We have 35 000 gross acres and 28 000 net acres in the oil window of the Eagle Ford Shale.
Based on 80-acre spacing we believe we have 277 horizontal locations to drill including the wells we have already drilled on our acreage.
We have excluded some of the northern acreage and any acreage that we think is undrillable from this estimate.
The average gross EUR is 500 000 barrels of oil equivalent for the 5 separate tight curve areas that we use in the drilling program.
After deducting royalties and the interest that our new partner will earn in the joint venture we estimate our properties will yield 78 million barrels of oil equivalent of which over 80% is oil.
Slides 26 and 27 show the results and locations of the 41 wells which are currently producing.
We completed 6 more Eagle Ford wells since our last update.
They are the last wells on the list wells number 36 to 41.
The 41 Eagle Ford shale wells that were completed had average per-well initial production rate of 705 BOE per day.
The 6 new Eagle Ford wells reported in this quarter averaged 816 BOE per day with Swenson C #1 the Hill A #3 and a the Hubbard #1H in McMullen County having the highest rates at 1 002 829 and 786 BOE per day respectively.
These wells being produced under the company's restricted shale program and initial tests were obtained using a 14/64" to 16/64"choke.
The first 35 wells which had been producing for more than 90 days had an average initial production rate of 686 BOE per day.
The 30-day per-well production rate for these wells averaged 517 BOE per day and the 90-day rate averaged 448 BOE per day which is 65% of the initial 24-hour test rate.
In addition to achieving consistent production performance we are also reducing the cost we incurred in drilling to complete these wells.
Starting in the fourth quarter we expect to save between $400 000 to $500 000 per well based on lower pricing we are now receiving for our stimulation services.
Slide 27 shows the location of the 41 producing Eagle Ford wells on the previous slide.
I will now turn it over to Jay.
Thank you Mark.
If you'll go to the 2012 outlook.
In summary I refer to Slide 28 in our presentation.
Despite the very low natural gas prices we experienced this year we are on track to meeting our goal of establishing 2 high-quality oil drilling programs which are transforming the company to a more balanced production mix and helping offset the low natural gas prices.
We expect oil to comprise 15% to 18% of 2012's production over 20% of production at the end of the year.
93% of the net wells that we'll drill in 2012 will be oil wells and 78% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
Even though our overall production this year might not grow much after the divestitures we completed last quarter we expect our oil production to grow to close to 200% over last year.
Our Eagle Ford shale program which is becoming more prolific with Mark driving well costs down and the promote we get from our KKR joint venture is our largest growth engine this year.
Our Wolfbone program in Reeves County continues to be a proven and profitable vertical drilling program.
We have plans to reduce our well cost in this play and are working to create a successful horizontal program to drive up the rates returns in this area.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
We've completed several transactions this year to enhance our financial profile and liquidity post the Permian acquisition and the fall in natural gas prices.
We reduced leverage this year by completing asset divestitures which generated net proceeds of $183 million.
We also completed a bond offering on June 5 to free up over $200 million of our bank borrowing base.
We will utilize the oil price hedging strategy to protect the acquisition and our oil forecast to drilling program.
The new joint venture agreement we closed on the third quarter allows us to ramp up our drilling activity while at the same term reducing our spending level.
So for the rest of the call Rachel I'd like to take questions only from the 19 or so research analysts that follow the stock.
So I turn it over to you Rachel for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Corales of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just starting on the Wolfbone what have you all changed since you first started drilling and what are you seeing geologically as you go east to see some of those higher production rates? Brian as far as what we had changed we increased our frac size in  our completions.
We have tested  and -- either verified or eliminated a couple of the deeper zones where we had drilled to them and tested them and now we're not drilling to them.
And we've also changed how we pick our perforation so we're much more focused using the technology that we have in picking perforations rather than just picking them evenly.
And we think that's giving us a substantial improvement in performance.
And as you go east you get a little deeper into the basin.
And I think the pressures we're seeing that the pressures are a little bit higher on the east side of the field than they are on the west.
I think that's driving the IP rates.
I think overall EUR we're probably not going to see us nearly much of the difference east to west as we do on the early rates but that's what we're seeing right now.
Research Division</strong> Is the product mix changing as you go east? Not really.
It's pretty similar with about 1 800 standard cubic feet per barrel yield on her GOR on both sides.
Now if you get well over on the west edge it starts to go up.
But that's way out kind of on the western edge of our acreage we're seeing that GORs climb maybe to 2 500 to 3 000.
Research Division</strong> And then just one other question.
Just looking at kind of your Haynesville program I mean you pretty much stopped drilling there.
What kind of declines are you all thinking for '13 just from Haynesville? Brian this is Roland.
I think that overall in 2013 we were kind of planning on a 25% decline in our gas production but no drilling activity at all.
I guess I'll mitigate that.
That implies -- with Haynesville at 75% of our production so it's creating most of that gains.
So it has probably closer to 30% since it's the major declining area.
Our other production the other 25% we haven't drilled on for quite some time and it's much more a lesser decline as you can see in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And just -- this may be a dumb question but looking at '13 and I know you all haven't set a budget but we can assume that the rig count you have is going to be -- you're not going to bring any rigs back to the Haynesville with this smaller running gas prices we've seen? Well what we've seen is you have [indiscernible] oil prices where they are today the kind of the marker is if  you have a $5 natural gas price $5 we can get 30 plus percent to rate of return in the Haynesville.
I mean we wouldn't look at bringing rigs back in the Haynesville unless you have like a $5 handle on it.
That's kind of what we've said corporately.
So as far as CapEx dollars in 2013 with a commodity prices as they are today we kind of pulled out $10 million from maintenance and that is -- we have to drill a well or if we get than AFE or whatever.
So if you own 140 000 acres in the Haynesville Bossier and 7 Tcfe of upside you'll have to spend a little bit somewhere.
So instead of spending the $102 million or $106 million we spent this year it will be more like $10 million and the rest of our operating cash flow will go toward out of the Eagle Ford or the Permian.
Your next question comes from Cameron Horwitz of U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> A question for Mark.
Mark can you just tell us a little bit about maybe what you learned from the Monroe well as far as where you want to land your lateral how you space your fracs et cetera? Are you doing anything differently because of that on the Dale Evans well? Cameron this is Mark.
We didn't change our strategy because of the Monroe well but the Dale Evans is targeting a different interval because in that area the Middle Wolfcamp looks better than the Wolfcamp B.
Our first well is in the Wolfcamp B the Dale Evans is targeting in the middle Wolfcamp.
And then we got two other wells scheduled to spud this year and they will be targeting different intervals as well.
So our goal is really to test the various intervals test which interval we think looks good in an area try to learn from that see how it performs apply that to the logged properties and the rock properties in the other areas and begin to define what our good targets are.
And we think there's multiple ones which we need to figure out which ones work best in which area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of the lateral link are you just governed by the lease lines right now and are you thinking about maybe extending those in some of the areas where you can? Cameron that will be our goal it'll be to pool or form larger units everywhere possible to get our lateral linked up to be more comparable to our Eagle Ford which is around 6 000 feet.
And that's what we think is kind of an optimum link to both drill and complete without getting into maybe some of the mechanical issues that you get in with the ultra-long laterals but still you can maximize your dollars or your to reserves per dollars spent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just along that line can you just give us a little color on the well cost.
I guess Monroe you were a little over $9 million.
Where do you see that trending over time? Yes.
The Monroe was a little over $9 million.
The frac simulation costs are coming down in West Texas the way that they are in the Eagle Ford.
So I think our next job that we have coming up' were substantially less.
I guess between $0.5 million and $1 million cheaper so that will help a good bit and we have to drill a few to the kind of get our system down and improve our -- we get up the learning curve on these things.
So after a few I think we're going to be somewhere between $8.5 million and $9 million probably it's what our goal would be to get these wells drilled once we get a little bit better at it.
Your next question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just sticking with that Monroe well there can you just give us the kind of hydrocarbon breakdowns in terms of oil NGL gas on that well? As far as oil it's about 75% oil -- 75% to 80% oil.
Yes I think it started out at 78% in the IP and then ended up about 82% with a 30-day just on a composition basis.
But yes I haven't seen a processing statement on the NGLs yet but that is the oil and gas breakdown.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
In terms of well cost just trying to get a sense of what you think the Eagle Ford well costs are going to be.
In the fourth quarter you talked about them coming down pretty significantly.
Can you just put a number on that.
And then additionally what are these vertical Wolfbone wells costing you all? Mariani -- or Leo on the Eagle Ford our cost out there is probably going to run between $8.5 million -- $8 million and $8.5 million.
Our lateral lengths on the wells that we're drilling right now some of them are fairly long.
And so the cost does increase with lateral length because you're just adding frac stages you're adding some drilling time but mainly you're adding frac stages.
And so that cost is variable depending on your lateral lengths.
So -- but on an equivalent basis we said our cost is going to be probably $0.5 million cheaper than it was in the second quarter and then we expect to get some additional savings next year with some pricing and also some pad drilling that we're planning to do which will provide some pretty good savings.
Vertical Wolfbone we're still in that $4.5 million to $5 million range and our goal next year is to really work on that to get a more of a focused vertical program rather than having a program that really is able to bounce back and forth between the 2.
We really plan to separate them where we can focus on the vertical side focus on our cost and get that cost down with a target in the low 4s.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful color for sure.
I guess in terms of your gas price it looks like your differential has widened a fair bit in the third quarter '12.
Can you just kind of walk us through any color you have on that? And should we expect that differential to kind of persist into 4Q or early next year? Leo this is Roland.
Yes I think on the gas price there are several things at work there on the differentials weakening from where they were.
Yes part of it -- some of it is -- NGL prices are getting weaker.
We reflect our NGL revenues as part of our gas stream and have always included that in our gas price realization but that is not a big part of the company.
It's probably around 2% of our revenues.
But those are getting weaker so that hurts the differential a little bit.
We have sold our biggest component of NGL properties we're divested of in May.
So that contribute a little -- with those out of the picture that contributes a little bit to a lower average differential.
And then enter in the low gas prices I mean some of the --  a lot of the transportation costs are percentage base.
They're fixed rates.
So with a low base gas price you're going to have a higher percentage of differentials because it's not a percentage base calculation.
So that and the volatility of gas prices we have -- our production was kind of up and down during the quarter.
It wasn't necessarily spread out over the 3 months very evenly so I think we have a little more production in the lower price months than the higher price months.
That part would not be reoccurring probably but the other 2 would be reoccurring.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful color.
So on the lines of transportation expense I know you guys break that out separately as well.
I take it that some of it is still kind of reflected in your gas price as well? Right.
The part that's reflected in our gas price is yes basically wherever we sell the gas at.
So that's how you properly show that.
So if our Haynesville gas and some of the gas that we transport the longest away from the wellhead to certain other delivery points to get better -- because of the big volumes so that's reflected -- that's a big part of our transportation costs that's part of lifting costs.
And those costs you see are going to be pretty bearable and are going to be -- they came down with a lower gas production in the Haynesville.
Most of our oil there's not too much transportation costs associated with our oil because most of them is sold at the wellhead.
So that's going to be reflected in the netbacks we get in our oil prices.
One comment on the Eagle Ford.
We have reduced cost probably a little less than $8 million right now but as you increase the laterals like Mark said and we're probably in the $8 million kind of ZIP code in that.
But if we had to have wells that cost less then we could.
But it's all a factor of how long the lateral is and 6 000 feet is just a pretty good lateral.
And I think on the vertical Wolfbone some of the offsetting operators are drilling just the vertical wells for a little less than $4 million drilling and completing.
So I think our goal in 2013 is to have a vertical program and try to drill and complete those wells for a little less than $4 million.
We're seeing costs coming down there and like Mark said anytime you enter a new area it takes a little while to kind of crack the code there and we've done it in every area that we've been in.
And of course as you know our IP rates have been excellent.
They've been superior to offset operators.
So I think we're getting close there.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> On the completion cost side I don't know Jay or Mark who's best to answer this is this -- the lower completion cost is that a function of renegotiating pricing already with your service providers or is that something to be on the come in 2013? What's -- what are the prime determinants behind those $400 000 to $500 000 of cost savings? Ron this is Mark.
It's both.
The $400 000 to $500 000 is renegotiation of pricing but there's -- but also our contract runs out at the end of the year.
And we do expect the market is somewhat oversaturated now in the Eagle Ford with all the crews that have come there from -- both from the gas plays and all the newbuild crews that showed up this year.
So we have had indications of some additional price improvement at the end of the year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And that -- is the $400 000 to $500 000 what you think can improve fourth quarter versus third or is the $400 000 to $500 000 inclusive of what you think the new pricing will be once that contract expires at year-end? That was our improvement from third quarter to fourth quarter.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And so you could see potentially more in 2013? Yes that's correct Ron.
I don't see expect it to be that big of a change based on the pricing that we've seen so far but I do still expect a fairly substantial improvement.
And we're also seeing other services get more competitive and prices come down.
So when you get an improvement across the board it really does impact the bottom line.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And is that primarily in the Eagle Ford or is that across both the Eagle Ford and the Permian at this point? I would say that's more in the Eagle Ford just because the quantity of service in the Eagle Ford.
I think that's going to happen in West Texas.
We're getting calls from new vendors every day out there.
So I think that will happen but West Texas hasn't become saturated to the point that Eagle Ford has with services yet.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I think Brian had asked a little bit about 2013.
When you look at 2013 Jay you've been pretty vocal on prior conference calls about funding your budget out of cash flows.
A is still that the case? And b it sounds like you'll be at 3 rigs in the Eagle Ford by year-end.
How do you look at the Permian in terms of anticipated activity/rig levels? Yes I think we'll do in December.
We have a board meeting kind of mid-December.
We'll see where commodity prices kind of end up in December.
Our goal is to have 3 rigs busy in the Eagle Ford and again as Mark had said or related to earlier if we drilled more in McMullen we're going to hit these 900 1 000 1 100-barrel-a-day wells or higher IP rate wells.
And we can do that because we have really great partner with KKR.
So we can put that third rig in.
And I think our cost go down our production profile goes up.
Again there's a transition in this next quarter because KKR does have a third of the new wells that are drilled.
But then you'll see in the first quarter 2013 I mean it will all be working really perfectly it should.
So a 3-rig program in 2013 and again you've got maybe $10 million of maintenance for dry gas.
So the rest of your free cash flow we want to put it right now in the Permian.
And as Mark said there's 2 different programs in the Permian.
One is maybe have a rig or a rig or 2 that just drills horizontally and I think the rest of the rigs will drill vertically.
So in a perfect world we like to see a 4-rig program in the Permian.
We'd like to have at least one of them drill horizontal wells when you have to like to have 3 of them drilling vertical wells hopefully at a cost of around $3.5 million $3.7 million to drill and complete and produce these wells.
Now we're not there yet.
So we'll look in December.
We'll see what our free cash flow from operations might be.
You see we have a couple of hundred million dollars available under our credit line and that's a big event because I mean we just went through the very worst cycle in the last 13 years for gas prices.
So we want to keep that $200 million available.
We really want to stay within our free cash flow.
We kind of see what that looks like in December and then we'll come up with this "3- to 4-rig program" in the Permian.
And we like to have 4 and we like to have 3 in the Eagle Ford but we'll make that call in December.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And I think Roland had mentioned just primarily as a function of the almost no activity in the Haynesville the gas volumes next year can drop kind of up to 25%.
Any expectation in terms of how the oil volumes can continue to grow? Are we talking about a 70% or 80%? I'm just trying to get a sense as to the overall production mix and/or what the profile looks like in '13.
We're going to provide that when we come out with our budget runs.
Instead of just trying to throw out numbers right now.
But until we know our budget we can't really say how much oil can grow.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess lastly the incremental 2 wells in -- on the horizontal side in the Permian are any of those added? And it sounds like at least one of those will be targeting a 6 000-foot lateral.
Mark is there anything -- or if it's on a 6 000-foot lateral what are you contemplating in terms of frac intervals? Or are you going to wait to see how the Dale Evans comes in and employ that information this year as you look to a longer lateral completion? Yes Ron we're going to buy -- we've got a lot of information to evaluate between now and then both on our wells and the offset activity.
So we'll incorporate all of that and then determine how we want to space our perforation clusters and how much profit we want to pump kind of based on all the results we're seeing between now and next January February.
Yes Ron on the horizontal again at the beginning of the year we thought we might drill 1 horizontal maybe and then now we're going to end up with 3 or 4.
And we kind of forced the Monroe and somebody asked a question earlier why didn't we drill a longer lateral? Well the lease that we drilled on have only allowed us to drill that 3 600-foot lateral.
It takes a lot of land work to unitize leases to allow you to drill longer lateral.
So in 2013 I think we'll be doing that.
As Mark said you need to drill a 5 400-foot or 6 000-foot lateral to optimize the reason you drill a horizontal well.
The other thing we did if you remember when we closed this December 2011 we had 600 700 800 leases.
We have a ton of leases and we kind of arranged them and said "Well we need to drill wells to hold leases." It wasn't really about geology; it's about holding leases.
So we've done that to the first 3 quarters.
And now we've kind of forced in the Monroe well because we go to Mark and say "Can't we drill a horizontal?" Because some of the offset operators to the East side did some pretty good horizontal wells.
Now as we understand one's in the Wolfcamp B one's in the A et cetera et cetera.
But Ron we're also -- we've got this other issue and that is when the lease is in their primary term you traditionally hold 100 feet below the deepest-producing formation.
So as long as the lease is active and alive you don't have the depth limit but once you quit drilling you cease drilling you do have a depth limit on most of these leases.
So our program in 2012 was to drill these wells to the Wolfcamp and Wolfbone wells and hold the lower portions of that acreage.
So we blended in this horizontal program with the original goal of holding as much of the leases as we can.
So again as we end up in December a couple of months from now like Mark said we'll be on more the Eastern side which if you had your druthers right now we'd rather be on the Eastern side.
Not that the Middle or the Western is not as good but we've got results on the Eastern side.
So we've been able I think to put together a lease where we can have -- we can drill 6 000-foot lateral.
So we would expect that well to be a pretty good well.
So that's kind of the reasoning behind the actions that you might want to know.
Your next question is from the line of Dan McSpirit of BMO Capital Markets.
Can you give us an idea on your comfort level on leverage at least maybe as measured by debt-to-EBITDA? I asked in an effort to get a hint on what that leverage stat could look like say at the end of next year at the end of 2013.
Dan this is Roland.
Yes that's definitely one of the measures that we look at a lot when evaluating leverage and there's of course 2 factors on movement having less debt and having more EBITDAX.
And I think that we are going to be seeing improvements in our EBITDAX as we move away from this -- the very low $2-type gas prices and become more -- and also have a higher oil mix.
So we see that that leverage ratio is going to be improving just with the growth in cash cash flow and the growth in EBITDAX from the new oil production that's coming on and just getting a little bit of improvement in gas prices.
So we think that that's important to reduce debt.
We'd have to not invest in our oil property.
So we're kind of saying "Well let's not increase debt but let's spend our cash flow on our high-return projects that will allow us to reduce leverage." So -- and we like to -- we definitely want to improve it through 2013 but we don't see doing anything -- we don't have to do anything drastic to improve such as slashing our capital budget so much that we can't grow our oil production or doing any type of very dilutive offering.
I think as gas prices improve to the extent of a better longer-term outlook for gas we have some divestiture opportunities there in conventional gas that I think that's kind of what we would look to bring down the overall debt levels of the company.
But we're patient.
We definitely want to do that early we want to get full value for those longer-term low-decline gas assets that we have in the company.
Okay.
And on the subject of divestiture candidates is any of the Haynesville Shale or Bossier Shale prospective leasehold candidate for? We don't view that as a divestiture candidate at all.
We think that's our -- that some of our -- that's our really good gas assets and we want to be a balanced company not just an oil company.
And so that's the area that we plan to grow our gas production end in the future in the right price environment.
So we're guarding our prime Haynesville acres.
Now if there's some fringed acreage we might let some of that go over time if it's not operated but generally want hang on to our core Haynesville not looking to divest of that or the other production that's there with the Cotton because I think we want to keep all rights and sell Cotton Valley or other formations in that area.
I think Dan you asked a really good question.
If you go back and you follow the company forever but June this time last year when we had this third quarter conference call it was only June of last year that we put a second rig into drilling the Eagle Ford.
So this time last year we were saying "Well we've got a second rig drilling the Eagle Ford." I mean it was almost a nonevent.
Well one of our goals was we were the reason -- we were a really great natural gas company in '08 because we were -- in the Haynesville/Bossier we were 98% natural gas unhedged off to great things until you have a recession and a glut and those are facts.
So then what happens? We specifically said -- and we haven't issued equity in 8 years.
We said we really want to add 2 core oil fields significant oil fields that give us significant exposure.
We're already in South Texas and we had started spending some money on the Eagle Ford acreage.
So we ended up with a 28 000 net acres.
We base-leased most of that have 100% ownership.
And after we drilled those 35 wells and de-risked it I mean we brought KKR in which is a great partner for the 25 000 horizontal acre.
So that was one of the goals.
Now you don't know if you can accomplish a goal or not.
It all depends upon the quality of the basin that you're in.
So that -- you put a checkmark by that that has really really worked and we needed it to work.
We didn't get caught up in a lot of these background noise and have frange [ph] acreage or Tier 2 and 3 acreage.
Now the other thing we decided to do in 2011 was to add the Permian.
Now we didn't intend to add the Permian like the big acquisition in Reeves County.
Our business model was to add it like we added the Eagle Ford.
It was have 2 or 3 land grids go out.
We went to Gaines County.
If you'll notice like in July of this last year you look at all the counties in the state of Texas Gaines County was the fourth largest producer of oil of any county in the state of Texas.
So we go to Gaines County we look at overpressured area and then knock knock knock an opportunity comes along in Reeves County and we said "Well significant oil exposure 178 million barrels.
It's been de-risked 37 wells drilled big footprint 44 000 net acres and we had worked hard to have the borrowing base where we could write a check." We didn't have to have production payments or preferreds or converts or any of the other kind of financial instruments.
But then we did choose to lever up the company and we did that and we went from 30-something percent net debt to cap to 54% 55% net debt to cap.
But what we told you we would do we did.
We had $184 million of divestitures either Stone shares or Double A or Sligo or some of the other properties and then we hedged our oil which we got pretty aggressive on that 60% to 70% of oils hedged for this year-end and next year.
And then we pulled in our budget even though it seemed to be out of control in the first quarter.
We thought we'd pull it in and that's when we went to 1 rig in the Eagle Ford.
I mean we pulled it in.
We didn't have a second rig until KKR came in.
So I'd give you a little background on that because what our goal is like Roland said we were 96% gas and 4% oil this time last year.
Now if you fast forward it by year-end hopefully our production is 80% gas 20% oil with 57% of our revenues from oil.
But then you go to 2013 in the 2 basins that we were in right now the Eagle Ford and the Permian I mean we could be 30% oil plus.
And then by 2014 we're where we want to be and that is about 60% gas and 40% oil.
And then you ask about the divestitures.
I think the mid-continent maybe South Texas and acreage that's not quote in the Eagle Ford kind of footprint I think those would be candidates when gas prices were higher.
But I think one of our holy grails of the whole company which is not valuable today is the Haynesville/Bossier.
I mean you go 1 600 1 700 wells in 3 years from 0 production to 7 Bcf in the Haynesville it caused a glut.
I mean it took the Barnett 12 years and 15 000 wells.
So we're not interested in selling any of the Haynesville/Bossier.
We want to keep that and that's kind of our third leg of the program.
It's 2 big oil projects.
And then an inventory done I think that's the key word inventory at Haynesville.
Fortunately we didn't have to sell down or we didn't have to -- we didn't have a partner there that caused us to drill wells in Haynesville that we shouldn't be drilling and we didn't have to dilute ourselves by issuing equity.
And we're one of the fortunate companies that could transition to oil exposure without diluting the shareholders.
So we plan in 2013 to stay within whatever our operating cash flow is.
And if we have to have some divestitures along the way we'll do that.
So I just want to give you a sense of comfort of what we're trying to do.
Yes that's very helpful.
I appreciate the context and texture indeed.
Jay you did -- you mentioned Gaines County.
What should we expect in terms of exploration drilling activity -- exploratory drilling activity in 2013 in Gaines County? We again -- we've got 20 000 gross acres 13 000 net acres.
We really like the county.
We chose it from every county in the Permian basin.
We've got $500 an acre in it.
The leases are 3- 4-year leases.
We would like to drill and we're probably budget to drill 1 or 2 wells and Mark would like to drill more of it at least 1 or 2 in Gaines County.
They'd be vertical.
But if we're right there Dan I mean we've been right in these new areas most of the time.
If we're right there in a very prolific county that produces a lot of oil I mean that's upside that we don't have a lot of money in a lot of equity built in there.
So Mark you might want to comment more on that the top well you would drill? Yes that's exactly right.
Our goal would be to drill 1 or 2 vertical wells in there essentially pilot holes to gather as much information as we can we would probably set pipe and test some intervals and see what we get mix -- oil gas mix what type of capacity to produce those zones have and then have them set up where we could reenter them at a later time and drill horizontal laterals out of those vertical wellbores.
So that would be our goal for this coming year and depends on availability of capital how aggressive we are in trying to get up and test that acreage.
Well that even goes back Dan to like the Pearsall.
We didn't -- nobody asked about it but probably 82% of our acreage in the Eagle Ford area has perspective Pearsall under it now.
Are we planning on drilling any of those? Intentionally no.
Are we going to want to core 1 or 2 of the Eagle Ford wells that we're drilling? Yes.
So if the Pearsall turns out to be good which seems like there's a well or 2 that looks pretty good.
Then we've got a lot of upside there which is definitely not in the numbers at all.
So it's core regions Haynesville/Bossier's core Tier 1 area the Eagle Ford definitely is a Tier 1 area and the Permian is definitely a Tier 1 area.
So we've -- through our operations group and our reservoir group and our G&amp;G group we've been able to add those core areas without diluting anybody.
Okay good.
And one last one for me sticking with West Texas.
The Ponderosa and Jessie James wells the latest 2 wells -- vertical wells to the Wolfbone are certainly overproducing wells not unlike the first Jessie James well I guess and the Buffalo Bill well.
What of your acreage in that part of the play -- what percentage is perspective for what you believe to be these overproducing vertical wells? On a net basis probably 30% of our acreage on the East side would be that type of acreage Ron something like that.
I haven't added all up to see exactly but I think that's about right.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly of Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> As you moved to drill the longer laterals in the Wolfcamp and you go to 6 000 feet in your horizontals there.
Just curious what are your expectations on a 30-day rate? What would you be happy with seeing there? Mike it's Mark.
It's very early for us to put a hanging number on this well.
I think they're going to -- we're still testing zones.
Generally speaking you don't get a linear improvement in IP.
When you drill longer laterals it's something less than that.
Just mechanically that's the way it works.
But I do believe you get a proportionate improvement in EUR.
If you drill 8 000-foot laterals instead of 4 000 you double the EUR but you don't double the IP rate.
So I think it's way too early for us to hang a number on.
It's going to vary a lot over the field and by reservoir as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you mark-to-market current service costs what's the fair D&amp;C on those longer lateral wells? Probably adding around 500 feet -- $500 per foot of lateral just in the stimulation and additional drilling cost.
That's kind of what we've used in our Eagle Ford program.
So every 1 000 foot of additional lateral you'll probably add something in the 500 -- $400 000 to $500 000 range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then it seems like you talked about 2013's program just kind of an initial glance at it and that you'd favor still drilling with vertical -- vertical rates versus horizontal.
Do you think that's ultimately how this acreage of this play shapes up for you? It's primarily a vertical play or would success in your initial wells here you think you could be -- could shift and go to -- you drill more from a horizontal perspective? I think we bought it for a vertical play and I think that probably 80% of our acreage you should drill it vertically.
Now can you drill it horizontally also? The answer is yes.
There's probably 20% of the play we think that only should be drilled horizontally but I think if you go back to all these plays the Eagle Ford or the Haynesville/Bossier all these horizontal plays it takes several years to kind of crack the code horizontally.
I think that the offset operator to the East I mean they drilled 145 vertical wells and drilled any horizontal and their economics seem excellent.
You do have some horizontal wells in that area but probably less than a dozen offsetting our acreage.
Now to the North the New Mexico coming down.
I mean you got a lot of horizontal wells.
But I think where we are specifically there hasn't been a whole lot of activity horizontally.
So what we don't want to do is we don't want to spend a lot of money for R&amp;D when offset operators have maybe horizontal programs.
We drill to find out what's successful and not and have maybe 1 rig drilling horizontals and the other 3 rigs drilling verticals.
And a lot of that just like Mark said is what is your EUR and what's your drilling cost.
And I think our costs are going to come down.
You fast forward it a year from now I think our cost is going to come down materially and vertically and I think horizontally.
And if you look at the Eagle Ford some of our initial Eagle Ford and even Haynesville/Bossier wells they were $10 million $11 million $12 million $13 million and today could probably drill a horizontal Haynesville well for somewhere in the $7 millions and complete it.
In the Eagle Ford if we had to drill and complete those wells for $7.5 million to $8 million we'd probably do that.
A lot of that depends upon the length of your lateral.
So the costs are coming down.
And kind of like the drilling time it used to take us a couple of months to drill a Haynesville well.
You can drill one of those in 15 days now.
I know some of the operators in the Permian are saying that they reduced their drilling times about 40%.
I think we'll be doing that too.
So a lot of that is just the nature of the new area.
But I think costs will come down.
I think we'll have a good handle on the EUR and the IRR and I think they're going to be good.
And they will compete against each other being the Eagle Ford and the Permian and once gas prices are $5 they will compete against the Haynesville.
And the great thing about Compstock we don't have any venture in place that forces us to spend money in a certain region and we don't have a bank forcing us to hedge anything either which tells you that we've got pretty good liquidity and pretty good financial positioning.
Your next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon of Pritchard Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark I had a question about the IP rates in the Eagle Ford.
Do you think given where you're going to be drilling for the next couple of quarters that the rates this quarter looked representative or...
I think Ray I think they're going to creep up because we're going to be focused more on our South acreage in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter than we are -- than we were in the third quarter.
So I think that average rate of 816 I don't think it will move significantly higher but I do think it will move a little bit higher.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
All right.
And in terms of the Permian have there been any transactions recently that give you more confidence about what you paid for Eagle? And have there been any recent horizontals you guys have heard of in any of the zones Wolfcamp or other zones? Well there's a package of properties Ray on the East side that is packaged to be sold by RBC and we think it's Tier 1 acreage.
Well we looked at it.
I mean it's excellent acreage.
It's roughly 50%.
What is available is for sale which includes operations.
Bids were due the 17th of this month and we'll find out.
We're -- we'll find out what happens with that property.
It's pretty exciting because if it sells it will be a pretty good marker for us because we paid $332 million in December of 2011 and I think the expectations for that property are a lot greater than that.
So we'll find out but we think it's Tier 1 acreage and it should sell for a mint.
That's all vertical that's roughly 145 vertical wells and I think the upside horizontally is to be discovered.
It hadn't been unlocked yet.
We're in some of those wells and those are good wells.
I mean they're getting 600- 700-barrel-a-day vertical wells.
So it looks pretty good.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
All right.
I just want to make sure I understood the production decline.
Roland you said previously you were looking at gas to decline completed the wells you've drilled.
So now you're saying you got a little lower number in '12 so maybe it's more like 20%.
Is that fair? I'm not sure what the reference to the 20% is but...
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh well I guess just how much decline year-over-year would you expect in '13.
Oh we still said 25% was our expected gas decline from our property base.
There are no further questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Allison for closing remarks.
Rachel I wish I had your accent but you could tell I'm not from New Jersey or from London.
I'm from Texas.
So anyhow again we've had a long conference call.
It's 1.5 hours I apologize for that.
Hopefully you've asked all the questions have plenty of time to do that and hopefully we presented the story that we're not diluting anybody.
We do have significant oil exposure both in Eagle Ford and the Permian.
We think our cost structure will come down and our recovery rates will go up.
We think we have tremendous upside of the 78 million barrels in Eagle Ford and over 178 million barrels in the Permian.
There is divestiture that's contiguous to our acreage in the Permian.
That will be exciting.
I mean we will drill several other horizontal wells and I think they'll only get better.
We do have scale in areas that we're in and I think that's important.
So our gross stool is pretty stable the Eagle Ford Permian and then the inventory at Haynesville.
Financial positioning I think is excellent.
We are very fortunate to have the banks that we have to support us.
Divestitures I think that we do have hundreds of millions of dollars of divestitures in the future at a higher gas price but not today.
And as far as the employees at Comstock I don't think we've ever had a better group ever.
So we're here to serve and we'll tell you the way it is.
So with that thank you for listening in and being a stockholder.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Comstock Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Erica and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jay Allison President and CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you Erica.
And everyone welcome to the Comstock Resources Fourth Quarter and Annual 2012 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled Fourth Quarter 2012 Results.
I'm Jay Allison President of Comstock.
And with me this morning are Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2012 operating and financial results.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentation and note that our discussions today will be including forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations of such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
I know that there are probably 34 slides in the presentation.
I'd like to give you kind of an overview right now from our perspective as far as the year and 2012 and 2013.
And I know Roland and Mark will hit on some of the highlights and details in a moment but just to kind of give you an overall view.
Slide 3 summarizes the highlights of 2012.
2012 as well as 2013 are transition years for Comstock as we are changing the company from a 98% natural gas company to one with a more balance between oil and natural gas.
We started 2012 with a partially proven Eagle Ford oil play and added the Permian properties in Reeves County as a new oil basin for us.
In 2012 we saw natural gas prices decrease 36% from 2011 and our gas production dropped 9%.
But then in 2012 we saw our oil production grow 175% with the Eagle Ford becoming our main oil growth engine as we de-risked our acreage and brought in KKR as a JV partner.
In 2013 the Eagle Ford will continue to be our largest oil growth engine with a 3-rig dedicated program to focus drilling into better portions of our Eagle Ford acreage.
In 2012 in West Texas we drilled 46 gross vertical wells that have enabled us to de-risk portions of our 42 000 net acres and we drilled our third horizontal well the Gaucho State 15 #H targeting the Wolfcamp A interval.
The Gaucho has been fracture-stimulated now with a 6 837-foot lateral in 18 stages and is expected to start flowing back later this afternoon.
Comstock owns 100% working interest in the Gaucho well.
This well will allow us to begin to evaluate the Wolfcamp A horizontal play which offset operators have been very successful in developing.
Mark Williams will go into more detail about this well and the offsetting wells later in this conference call.
Concerning our 80 000 net acres in the Haynesville/Bossier play in East Texas and North Louisiana where we have 6 Tcfe of upside we have allocated $32 million in 2013 to drill 3.6 net wells versus the $107 million we spent in 2012.
So in 2013 94% of the net well drilled will be oil  wells and 92% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
Also I need to point out that a key component to Comstock in 2013 is to delever our balance sheet by bringing in a partner in our Permian drilling program later this year.
We think a good partner will create a win-win situation in the Permian and allow us to delever our balance sheet and enable the Permian to be developed on a more consistent scale incorporating both vertical and horizontal well programs.
I will now turn it over to Roland and Mark to cover our financial and drilling results.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
The first item I want to cover is the announcement we made yesterday to restate our financial results for the first 3 quarters of 2012.
So if you refer to Slide 4.
And while our oil hedging program has been a big economic success in 2012 we were required to change our accounting from hedge accounting to mark-to-market accounting.
The net impact is that we have to include unrealized gain or loss related to the value of the oil hedge position in our income statement instead of just an equity.
As a result we've recognized an unrealized loss of $10.2 million in the first quarter and unrealized gain of $34.8 million in the second quarter and an unrealized loss of $1.1 million in the third quarter.
For the 9-month period this accounting change has us reducing our loss after income taxes to $21.9 million as compared to the $29.4 million loss we previously reported.
Even though the hedges were effective throughout all of 2012 our underlying documentation that designate the contracts as hedges were not completed in a timely manner.
The technical requirements to use hedge accounting are unforgiving and we failed to live up to them.
We do want to apologize to our stockholders for any confusion this restatement has created.
On Slide 5 we show our oil production on a daily basis by quarter.
Our oil production in 2012 grew by 175%.
In the fourth quarter oil production fell to 6 100 barrels per day as compared to the third quarter where we produced 7 200 barrels per day.
The decrease is mostly due to the activity in our Eagle Ford Shale properties in South Texas which is shown in light blue on this chart which averaged 4 300 barrels per day as compared to the 5 000 barrels per day we had in the third quarter.
There were several factors that contributed to the disappointing production rate in the quarter.
A smaller number of net wells came online in the fourth quarter and we had substantial shut-in time for offset frac activity.
This was compounded by additional shut-ins for artificial lift installations.
Our January and February production continues to be hampered by some of these issues but we anticipate having a very strong March as we return all the wells to production plus having an additional 5.2 net wells coming on production in late February and March in the Eagle Ford.
Our Wolfbone properties in West Texas averaged 1 600 barrels per day in the fourth quarter down from the 1 900 barrels a day we had in the third.
Limited completions in the quarter and artificial lift issues hampered production from this area in the quarter.
Despite the slow start we do expect our oil production to grow this year by approximately 40% to 60% over last year's production to total 3.2 million to 3.7 million barrels.
Slide 6 shows our natural gas production on a daily basis.
Our natural gas production declined by 9% in 2012 due to the 9 million a day of production we sold with our May property divestiture and the declines that we're experiencing from our Haynesville properties.
In the fourth quarter we averaged 195 million cubic feet per day as compared to the 220 million cubic feet per day that we had in the third quarter in the Haynesville for total production.
But production from our Haynesville and Bossier wells in the quarter declined to 142 million per day and the remaining gas production at the company has only showed modest declines in the quarter.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells which is shown in dark blue on the chart averaged 25 million per day.
And our South Texas gas production shown in red was 20 million per day.
Other gas from our other regions shown in purple increased in the quarter to 8 million per day.
We expect our natural gas production to decline further this year to approximately 59 to 62 -- 64 Bcf a decrease of 22% to 28% from our 2012's total production.
On Slide 7 we show that our average realized oil price in the fourth quarter of 2012 decreased to $92.46 per barrel as compared to the $100.18 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our realized well net oil price in the quarter averaged 106% as the average NYMEX WTI price of $87.60 due to the premiums that we are receiving for our Eagle Ford Shale oil.
80% of our oil production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX WTI price of $99.53.
So including our gains from the hedges we realized $101.56 per barrel in the quarter which was 1% higher than our realized oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Slide 8 shows our oil prices for all of 2012.
Our realized oil price increased 1% in 2012 to $96.95 per barrel as compared to the $95.73 per barrel in 2011 and had averaged 103% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price.
74% of our oil production was hedged in 2012 at a NYMEX price of $99.45.
So including the gains from our hedges we realized $101.18 per barrel in 2012 which was 6% higher than our realized prices in 2011.
On Slide 9 we outline our hedge position.
We have an attractive oil hedge position which protects our 2013 drilling program and we have 6 000 barrels of oil production hedged at $98.67 for all of 2013.
Slide 10 covers our natural gas prices.
Our average gas price of $3.05 decreased 10% this quarter as compared to the $3.40 price we realized in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our realized gas price was 90% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
Our average gas price for all of 2012 decreased 36% to $2.52 per Mcf as compared to the $3.91 we averaged in 2011.
Our realized gas prices was also 90% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for all of 2012.
On Slide 11 we cover our oil and gas sales including realized gains or losses from the hedges.
Our total sales decreased by 2% to $112 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 as compared to the $114 million we had in 2011's fourth quarter.
Oil made up 51% of our total sales in the fourth quarter as compared to only 31% in the fourth quarter of last year.
In 2012 sales increased 2% to $442 million as compared to the $434 million of sales in 2011.
Oil also accounted for 51% of total sales for all of 2012 as compared to only 18% of our total revenues in 2011.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other non-cash expenses or EBITDAX decreased by 9% to $82 million from $90 million in 2011's fourth quarter as shown on Slide 12.
EBITDAX for all of 2012 has decreased 4% to $321 million from 2011's  $336 million.
Slide 13 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $65 million which was 18% lower than cash flow of $79 million in 2011's fourth quarter.
Operating cash flow for 2012 was $261 million a 12% decrease from 2011's operating cash flow of $298 million.
On Slide 14 we outline our earnings.
We reported a net loss of $78 million this quarter or $1.68 per share as compared to a net loss of $41 million or $0.89 per share in 2011's fourth quarter.
For the full year we reported a net loss of $100 million or $2.16 per share compared to a net loss of $33 million or $0.73 per share for 2011.
The financial results in both 2011 and 2012 include several unusual items.
In the fourth quarter the reported net loss includes impairments on natural gas unevaluated leases and producing properties of $78.6 million or $51.1 million aftertax or $1.10 per share.
We also had a $2 million unrealized loss from derivatives $1.3 million aftertax or $0.03 per share.
The 2012 annual net loss includes impairments of $86.7 million or $56.3 million aftertax or $1.21 per share; a gain of $26.6 million $17.3 million aftertax or $0.37 per share on the sales of our Stone Energy shares; and a gain of $24.3 million $15.8 million aftertax or $0.34 per share from our property sales; and also an $11.5 million unrealized gain from derivatives which was $7.5 million aftertax or $0.16 per share.
Excluding these items we would've reported a net loss of $0.55 per share this quarter and $1.82 per share for 2012.
On Slide 15 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter.
Lifting costs for us are broken out into 3 components: production taxes transportation and then other field-level operating costs.
Our total lifting costs were $1.19 per Mcfe produced in the fourth quarter of 2012 as compared to the $0.77 rate that we had in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our production taxes were $0.15 per Mcfe transportation averaged $0.27 in the fourth quarter and our field operating cost averaged $0.77 per Mcfe this quarter which was higher than the 39% -- $0.39 rate that we had in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the $0.64 rate we had in the third quarter of 2012.
The lower production in the quarter and the more expensive to lift oil production account for the higher rate.
On Slide 16 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative costs were $0.20 per Mcfe in the fourth quarter of 2012 which was the same rate that we had in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the same rate that we had in the third quarter of 2012.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 17.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the fourth quarter of 2012 averaged $4.55 per Mcfe as compared to our $3.07 rate in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the $4.10 rate we averaged in the third quarter.
The low natural gas prices drove up our DD&amp;A rate in 2012 due to the exclusion of most of our undeveloped natural gas projects from our proved reserves.
Also the higher finding cost of the oil projects is also driving this increase.
We have a slide on our proved reserves and finding costs for 2012 on Page 18 of the presentation.
Our proved reserves at the end of 2012 were estimated at 712 Bcfe compared to the 1.3 Tcfe that we had at the end of 2011.
Our reserves are 67% natural gas and 33% oil as compared to the only 15% oil at the end of 2011.
We operate 90% of our proved reserves which went from being 46% developed at the end of 2011 to 62% developed at the end of 2012.
Our successful drilling program in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas added 11.9 million barrels of oil and 7.5 Bcf of associated gas or 13.2 million barrels of oil equivalent to our proved reserves in 2012.
The West Texas drilling program contributed 5.4 million barrels of oil and 9.5 Bcf of associated gas or 6.9 million barrels of oil equivalent to proved reserves in 2012 and the activity in the Haynesville Shale mainly in the first quarter of the year and our other regions added another 15 -- and another 14 Bcf of proved natural gas reserves into our reserves at the end of 2012.
The very low SEC price that we had to use to estimate our proved reserves caused a large downward revision of 534 Bcf as our undrilled natural gas projects are not economic at the $2.84 per Mcf price that we had to use.
In 2012 we spent $490 million on exploration and development activities and we spent another $35 million to acquire leases.
The finding cost for 2012 excluding the exploratory acreage cost and the downward natural gas revisions calculates at a $21.79 per BOE.
Slide 19 recaps our balance sheet at the end of 2012.
On December 31 we had $4 million in cash and $12 million in marketable securities on-hand.
We also had $1.3 billion of total debt comprised of $884 million of our senior notes and $440 million outstanding under our bank credit facility.
Our current borrowing basis of $570 million under the credit facility leaving us $130 million in unused availability.
Slide 20 breaks out our 2013 drilling budget.
In 2012 we spent $490 million on our drilling activities.
And this year we expect to spend $420 million.
Our new budget has us drilling 85 wells this year 10 gas wells and 75 oil wells.
$219 million will be spent on our Eagle Ford Shale program to drill 27.3 net wells and $169 million will be spent on our Wolfbone properties to drill 8 Wolfcamp horizontals and 25 Wolfbone vertical wells.
We've also budgeted $32 million for any required drilling to hold our acreage in the Haynesville Shale and we plan to spend another $25 million to acquire acreage in 2013.
I'll now turn it over to Mark to review our results from our drilling program.
Thank you Roland and Happy Fat Tuesday to everyone.
On Slide 21 we recap our activity in our East Texas/North Louisiana region.
In the first quarter we drilled 3 operated Haynesville wells 2.5 net before moving our 2 operated drilling rigs out of this region.
We participated in another 4 non-operated wells 0.7 [ph] net.
We completed all of our operated Haynesville wells this year and we still have 2 or 0.1 net of the non-operated wells -- Haynesville wells waiting to be completed.
We will be able to exploit our 6 Tcfe of Haynesville and Bossier resource potential in the future when improved gas prices provide economics competitive with our oil projects.
Slide 22 we cover our South Texas operations where all of our activity has been in our oil-focused Eagle Ford Shale play.
We still have 35 000 gross acres and 28 000 net acres in the oil window of the Eagle Ford Shale.
Based on 80-acre spacing we believe we have 277 horizontal locations including the wells we have already drilled.
We have excluded some of our Northern acreage and any acreage that we think is undrillable from this estimate.
We estimate that our properties have 78 million barrels of oil equivalent potential.
This year we drilled 30 wells 20.5 net to our interest and the wells we drilled had an average initial production rate of 675 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Slide 23 and 24 show the results and locations of the 47 wells which are currently producing.
We completed 6 more Eagle Ford Shale wells since our last update.
They are wells 42 to 47 on the list.
The 47 Eagle Ford shale wells that were completed had an average per well initial production rate of 702 BOE per day.
These wells are being produced under the company's restricted choke program and the initial tests were obtained with a 14/64s to 16/64 choke.
The 30 day per well production rate for these wells averaged 542 BOE per day and the 90 day per well production rate averaged 461 BOE per day or 66% of the initial 24-hour test rate.
The 6 new Eagle Ford wells reported on this quarter averaged 682 BOE per day with the Gloria Wheeler A #2H the Gloria Wheeler B #2H and the Cutter Creek A #1H all in McMullen County having the highest initial production rates at 987 872 and 765 BOE per day respectively.
At the end of the year we had another 6 or 3.8 net Eagle Ford wells waiting on completion.
Slide 24 shows the location of the 47 producing Eagle Ford wells.
On Slide 25 we show how the cost of our Eagle Ford wells have come down considerably since we started drilling in August of 2010.
The costs on this slide have been adjusted to standardize the lateral link up to 5 800 feet to make them comparable.
The costs are based on actual costs for wells that we've completed and AFE costs for future wells.
You can see that in the beginning these wells cost over $12 million which included a lot of learning curve and science applied and the cost have improved to just under $8 million recently.
Faster drilling times and lower well stimulation cost account for much of the savings.
Slide 26 shows the net Eagle Ford wells being put on production per month in 2012 and what is projected for 2013.
Note the wide variation in net completions per month which ranges from 0 all the way up to 6 net completions per month.
This variation is due to multi-well pad drilling and subsequent multi-well stimulation operations.
The large variation will result in a lot of lumpiness in our resulting Eagle Ford production curve in 2013.
Production in the fourth quarter of 2012 was affected by the low number of completions in that quarter and Q1 of 2013 will also be adversely affected.
Slide 27 shows the location of our planned 42 Eagle Ford wells in 2013.
You can see the high concentration of planned wells in the McMullen County where we have achieved the best results.
And on this map there are 40 dots just for those of you that actually count and there are 2 wells located in our DVR area to the East and it made the map too small to read so we left that area off.
But you'll also note that 38 of the 42 wells are in our high-quality McMullen area acreage.
Slide 28 shows our West Texas region and the 89 000 gross and 54 000 net acres that we have there.
Our activity this year has been focused on Reeves County and the properties we acquired from Eagle Oil &amp; Gas at the end of 2011.
The Reeves County acreage provides us over 900 vertical locations targeting the Wolfbone with 178 million BOE of resource potential.
We have a proven and successful vertical program on our acreage but we think there's significant upside with horizontal development in the Avalon the Bone Spring and the Wolfcamp formations on our Reeves County acreage.
Recently other operators in the area had -- have had strong results from horizontal Bone Spring and Wolfcamp wells for -- yes around our acreage.
Slide 29 shows our Reeves County acreage and highlights the latest 8 Wolfbone wells we reported on today.
In 2012 we drilled 48 wells or 30.5 net wells.
All of these were successful.
Of the wells drilled in 2012 we completed 29 or 26.3 net operated wells in 2012.
These wells had an average per well initial production rate of 356 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We also participated in 16 non-operated Wolfbone vertical wells which had an average initial production rate of 369 barrels equivalent per day.
The vertical wells were drilled to total depths of 11 250 to 12 786 feet and were completed with 5 to 11 frac stages.
We had 3 wells 1.0 net wells awaiting completion at year end.
Since our last update we completed 8 additional wells in our Wolfbone field which had an average initial production rate of 319 BOE per day.
Our second horizontal well the Dale Evans 196 #2H targeting the middle Wolfcamp interval was disappointing with an initial rate of 212 BOE per day.
Slide 30 shows the 49 operated wells in our Wolfbone field including the 8 we completed in the fourth quarter.
The 49 wells had an average per well initial production rate of 322 BOE per day.
The 30-day rate for the 48 wells that have produced for Wolfbone [ph] averaged 79% of their initial rate.
Over a longer period of 90 days the rates have averaged 61% of the initial rate.
Slide 21 (sic) [ 31 ] shows the -- shows you the location of these 49 wells on our acreage.
And as you can see we have fully tested our acreage with vertical wells and feel we have de-risked the vertical program.
Slide 32 shows Comstock's horizontal activity in Reeves County along with horizontal activity by offset operators.
Concho's horizontal wells targeting the Wolfcamp A interval have been very successful with the first 2 reporting 30-day IP rates as reported to the Railroad Commission of 758 BOE per day and 952 BOE per day and those were the Rawhide and the Cowboy wells.
Comstock's first horizontal well the Monroe 35 #1H targeting the Wolfcamp B interval was moderately successful with a 24-hour IP rate of 653 BOE per day.
We still have the Wolfcamp A and third Bone Spring to complete at a later date in this wellbore.
Comstock's second horizontal well the Dale Evans 196 #2H targeting the middle Wolfcamp interval was disappointing with a 24-hour IP rate of 212 BOE per day.
We still have the Wolfcamp B the Wolfcamp A and the third Bone Spring to complete in this wellbore at a later date.
Comstock's third horizontal well the Gaucho State 15 #1H targeting the Wolfcamp A interval has been fracture-stimulated with 6 837-foot lateral and 18 frac stages.
And you'll note they targeted the Wolfcamp A which is the same interval as the successful Concho wellsoffsetting.
The frac plugs have been drilled -- have been removed in this well and we are preparing to start flowback later today.
The lateral length of the Gaucho is significantly longer than previous Comstock and Concho wells which ran -- they ran 3 500 to 4 000 or a little over 4 000 feet; and the Gaucho well is 6 837 feet.
Comstock's fourth horizontal well is the Balmorhea 32-15 #1H which will also target the Wolfcamp A interval with a planned lateral of over 7 000 feet.
The vertical portion of this well is currently being drilled.
Just to note we own 100% of the Gaucho well as well as 100% of the Dale Evans well.
Slide 33 shows the primary oil targets on our acreage in Reeves County.
Also shown are the potential completion types that we anticipate will be prospective.
On the far right is a conventional vertical Wolfbone well showing a primary 1 500 feet of completion interval from the third Bone Springs through the low -- through the middle Wolfcamp or lower Wolfcamp.
In addition to that we believe there are several horizontal targets in the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp shales that may significantly improve the economics of the play.
Other operators in the area are actively pursuing horizontal opportunities in the Bone Spring and various benches in the Wolfcamp.
Our Gaucho well is testing the Wolfcamp A which has seen the most success by other operators in Reeves County.
Our Monroe tested the Wolfcamp B which has been moderately successful.
And as I said before the Dale Evans which was not successful tested the middle Wolfcamp shale.
The horizontal aspect of this play is still emerging so there is much science to be applied before it can be verified but we are very excited to have such a prime position in this basin.
And now I'll turn it over to Jay.
Thank you Mark and again Roland earlier.
If you look at the very last slide the 2013 outlook I mean we are excited about the prospects for Comstock this year because we are able now to inventory our Haynesville gas region and we'll spend our money this year developing our 2 Tier 1 oil basins the Eagle Ford and the Permian as Mark just reviewed.
We expect the strong growth in our oil production will be more than offset -- will more than offset the low natural gas prices to allow us to have higher revenues and cash flow and be a much more profitable company in 2013.
And we expect oil to comprise more than 25% of our 2013 production.
94% of the net wells that we will drill in 2013 will be oil wells and 92% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
Even though overall production this year is expected to decline we do expect oil to grow by 40% to 60% over last year which will grow our revenues and grow our cash flow.
Our Eagle Ford shale program will be again our largest growth engine for this year and we also see tremendous upside in future horizontal development in the emerging Wolfcamp shale based on recent activities in Reeves County and hopefully our own Gaucho well.
And we continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures industry and we have adequate liquidity for our 2013 drilling plans.
We expect operating cash flow to fund most of our planned drilling program and that the availability under our bank credit facility will increase with our oil reserve growth.
We'll continue utilizing an oil price hedging strategy to protect our oil-focused drilling program.
And as I stated earlier a key component to Comstock in 2013 is to de-lever our balance sheet by bringing in a partner in our Permian drilling program later this year.
We think a good partner will create a win-win situation in the Permian and allow us to de-lever our balance sheet and enable the Permian to be developed on a more consistent scale incorporating both the vertical and the horizontal well programs that Mark just described.
So for the rest of the call we'll take questions only from research analysts who follow the stock.
Erika I'll turn it back to you.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question around your comments about partnering in the Permian.
Is that something you guys are pursuing extremely quickly here you're getting after that right away? And should we expect that to be a very similar type of deal that we saw in the Eagle Ford in terms of structure? Yes this is Roland Leo.
Yes on the question about looking for a partner in the Permian it's something that we do want to -- we're going to start after we get the results from the 2 Wolfcamp A horizontal wells.
So it's something that we like to kind of have identified a potential partner by the end of the second quarter.
So that's kind of our goal and it will be a similar process to the Eagle Ford.
And as far as the actual structure we're really hoping to how that will be structured.
I think we would -- since we want to use it more to de-lever the balance sheet it probably have to be structured differently.
It would be more upfront funds.
We have a lot invested in the Wolfbone properties.
So I would see the structure in the Eagle Ford which works right there might not be ideal for this one if we're going to use it to de-lever the balance sheet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that makes a lot of sense.
And I guess another question for you guys.
In terms of the Gaucho well sounds like you guys are going to know results in that pretty soon.
Will we expect to -- you guys can expect to release those prior to first quarter earnings? Could we see an interim update with some results there? Yes this is Roland again Leo.
I think that we'll decide that kind of later on.
I think unfortunately it would have been nice if the Gaucho could report results today because we as a company like to give a comprehensive update to our drilling results every quarter versus picking wells to point out.
But we understand the importance of the Gaucho and understand the importance of putting out something from the company versus having it leak out in the market.
So I think that's something we'll evaluate once we actually even know what the well is going to do.
And so the typical timeframe for the other 2 horizontals it has taken about 2 to 3 weeks to establish an initial rate.
So we're -- hopefully today will just start the very first day of recovering some of the frac fluids that were injected in the well.
Yes Leo my comments to follow up with Roland I mean I think we have too much debt.
We do have to de-lever our balance sheet.
We intentionally levered up the company in order to add the 2 oil basins and we did bring in a perfect JV partner in the Eagle Ford.
And of course in the Eagle Ford we didn't pay $332 million to enter the Eagle Ford.
We base leased our acreage and then drilled it.
I think we acted differently in the Permian.
And now the Permian we've had really good results vertically.
I expect to have really good results horizontally with the Gaucho and the Balmorhea which is at Wolfcamp A which is our first horizontal Wolfcamp A.
So I think with that we will open the debt room as Roland said and -- but this JV will be structured differently than the Eagle Ford because we need to de-lever our balance sheet.
And then I think as far as the press release on the Gaucho I mean we're listening to all of the stockholders and we'll act accordingly.
So I hope that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you address well costs on these horizontals you're doing in the Wolfcamp and also what you're seeing in the vertical Wolfbone well costs? Yes Mark will do that.
Yes [indiscernible] well cost on the horizontal Wolfcamp were -- our hefty cost is about $10 million right now.
We still have some science involved and we drilled a 50% longer lateral or almost 50% longer on this one and a significantly larger frac job.
So while our service costs have down we've kind of evened that up with the additional lateral length and the additional frac-ing on this well.
As far as vertical Wolfbone our cost is coming down.
I don't have real hard numbers but I think our goal is to be around $4 million and we are working toward that goal.
I wouldn't say we're there yet but we're getting much closer.
And then in the Eagle Ford you saw the curve.
We're down around $8 million or a little bit less.
We used $8.2 million in our budget because we have a lot of longer laterals and longer than the 5 800 feet.
So we standardized that cost to be able to compare apples-to-apples across the field.
But if you drill 7 000-foot laterals the well is going to cost a little bit more.
So that's kind of where we're at on that and we've seen the significant stimulation cost reductions in the Eagle Ford which has helped us come down on those costs.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about the Permian.
The key question really is can you just talk about the partnership that you're thinking about the Permian and how that ties into your oil production growth guidance that you've laid out? If you bring in a partner would you accelerate activity to keep your net oil volume growth at 40 to 60? Or is this going to be more just straight balance sheet reduction? Well Amir the -- our production growth goals this year are based on not bringing in a partner so that's the program that's kind of budgeted for.
I think as a goal of this company to de-lever I think that bringing in a partner into the Permian would -- the big benefits would be we would have more activity there and hopefully spend less dollars there and have more activity.
So I mean we can't really say what the -- since we don't know what the structure will look like we don't know the impact but the overall goal would be that we can actually have more production growth this year potentially if we have more capital available to add another rig to the Eagle Ford.
That's one of the goals of doing a joint venture in the Permian would be to accelerate activity in the Eagle Ford where we can immediately bring on more oil production if we could add another rig there at the same time de-lever the balance sheet.
So right now though the guidance that we're providing assumes that we're not -- we're going to stick with the plan as it is which is to spend the money that we have budgeted.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to summarize is there a downside risk to that number with a partnership or upside risk to the net volumes for the oil side? I guess it depends on the structure.
Depends on the structure and depends on whether they participate in the current producing wells.
The Eagle Ford that was structured where they did not.
So there's a lot of ifs.
But if there would be any type of downside it would be very temporary because I think in the long run it would allow us to accelerate activity as a company.
And the quicker that we add a rig in the Eagle Ford we can make up a whole lot of oil production that may go to a partner in the Permian.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up question on your Gaines County acreage if you can just give us an update on what your plans are for that.
Right now our activity Amir is focused in the Reeves County acreage so we are kind evaluating our Gaines County acreage to determine how best to go and proceed with testing that and we really don't have a plan that we want to talk about yet.
So we do know that we need to get it evaluated and that's kind of in the works.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could clarify what you think the biggest driver is and the difference in the performance you've seen in your horizontal Wolfcamp wells versus what you've seen in the offset Concho wells.
Is it just as simple as they're targeting the Wolfcamp A with their laterals or is there some other notable difference in how they're completing producing these wells? Mike this is Mark.
The completions are similar not significantly different by any means and the lateral lengths are similar.
So I do believe it's just the rock is acting different in the middle Wolfcamp in the Wolfcamp B versus that Wolfcamp A section.
So that's kind of the simple answer and we'll be able to verify that with the Gaucho well and then following up with that with our Balmorhea well which will be in the Wolfcamp A as well.
So that's what we believe right now that it's just the rock quality in the areas where we drilled our wells.
We do believe that that middle Wolfcamp has some significant potential over to the East.
It does look better over to the East.
And at some point in the future we want to test that.
But we're going to focus this year on the Wolfcamp A because that's where we've seen the most success.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Roland a question for you.
I was just hoping that -- you gave oil guidance reiterated it at 40% to 60% growth in 2013 but was hoping for some help on Q1.
How does that progression look on the oil side in the Eagle Ford and in the Permian? Yes Mike in the Eagle Ford yes we still have some of the issues that kind of flagged the fourth quarter especially in the month of January and part of February.
But we do expect to see our total company production oil grow from the fourth quarter levels but probably not quite back to where we were in the third quarter of last year.
I think that March will be real strong but it's going to be diluted a little bit by January and part of February because we still had shut-ins and not many new wells coming on yet so -- well Mike I think our biggest production from quarter to quarter just based on how the Eagle Ford which is the biggest driver is stacked up the second quarter growth over the first quarter will be our most dramatic growth quarter-to-quarter just based on today's schedule.
Because there you'll have the benefit of coming and starting the quarter with really hot production month and having some good completions.
And then we see kind of fairly consistent growth from the second to the third to the third to the fourth despite the spottiness in the completions the way that it kind of matches in the different quarters.
So really a big uplift by the second quarter and then some moderate growth in the third and fourth.
The wildcard in the production forecast is how does the horizontal Wolfcamps how do they come in because we're up -- we're being conservative in what we expect from them.
And so they have the ability to allow us to have higher expectations for oil but we need to see the results of those 2 wells.
I think to be accountable I mean to the stockholder we -- 2 things.
One we put Slide 26 in which shows you the completions per month for the Eagle Ford.
We thought that visual was very important.
And then I have asked Mark to kind of give an update on fourth quarter production versus where we are today.
And really the location of the Eagle Ford wells that we drilled and the completion times I think that's big because again the Permian will be pretty consistent I think from here on out.
But really the driver of the predictable well is the Eagle Ford.
I mean we hit a huge well in the Gaucho and the Balmorhea then all bets are off to the upside because it will be really good in the Permian.
But we're still kind of going through that dance.
We've got some really good vertical wells that are very predictable in the Permian.
But right now in our model the real driver of our oil is the Eagle Ford.
So I'll let Mark kind of give you his COO view of that.
All right.
This is Mark.
I'll run through both areas real quick and just kind of give you a list of things.
In the Eagle Ford several factors affected our Q4 and early Q1 production and we've already spoken about most these but I'll hit them again.
As shown on Slide 26 a very small number of wells came online since last October and this continues really through this month.
And then in late February and March we just have a big ramp-up of completion activity.
This is mainly due to the pad drilling that we're executing which defers our completions until after all the pads are drilled and then you move in those frac crews and you frac the whole -- all the wells on the pads.
So everything just takes longer it defers that activity.
The second factor is that 2 of our last 4 wells that we've completed are in Atascosa County.
That was the Mesquite well and the DVR well.
And that's where IP rates are significantly lower than in our prime McMullen County acreage.
These are lease obligation wells.
They hold a significant amount of acreage so we felt they were valuable to drill even though they're not our Tier 1 acreage.
Third we had several wells shut in for extended periods and mainly in December for offset frac-ing either by us or by other operators across the leased line from us.
And lastly we had numerous operational issues beginning in early to mid-December and continuing until just about now.
And these were mainly due with new wells loading up and artificial lift-related issues that we've had to work through.
We still had 5 wells down this morning and all of which -- all but one of which should be returned to production in the next few days.
We have one well shut in because we have a drilling rig on the pad drilling another well.
So we can't get it on until we get that drilling rig done.
Now the Wolfbone the primary factors affecting production have been operational and then the results of our horizontal program.
Similar to the Eagle Ford we were kind of hit with a rash and mechanical issues in Q4 that carried over into Q1 of this year.
Almost all of these were artificial lift-related.
We've made changes to our chemical program and to our equipment design that should significantly improve performance.
But those changes have to kind of work their way through the system.
And as you repair wells you make the changes and then they may become less problematic in the future.
We have reduced the number of nonproducing wells from a high of 16 to 11 currently.
And we should have several of these return to service this week.
And regarding our horizontal program the effect of the Dale Evans #2 to production was pretty significant.
Not only did the well underperform even our average vertical wells but it occupied a drilling rig for 75 days a time period in which we probably could've drilled 3 vertical wells.
So for the foreseeable future our horizontal program will be focused on the Wolfcamp A where the results offsetting us have been significantly better.
And we'll monitor our results and carefully tread forward this year.
If you look in our budgets in the Eagle Ford it's 27 net wells.
22 of the 27 are in McMullen kind of like Mark said.
And then you go to the Permian I mean we had 27 net wells in the Permian also.
20 of those were vertical wells and they're going to be really configured toward the Tier 1 portion that we de-risked and then the 7 -- there are 7 net horizontal wells.
And instead of drilling a Monroe well or a Dale Evans type well the 7 wells that we will drill in 2013 will be one is the Gaucho and so Wolfcamp A; the second one is a Balmorhea that's a Wolfcamp A.
We don't plan on drilling any of the horizontal wells in the Permian till we know the outcome of the Gaucho and then the Balmorhea.
And then our goal is to kind of offset those wells and we'll kind of inch out from those core wells in our development program for horizontal wells in 2013.
So it's going to be a lot more predictable and I think that's what we need to do for this year.
I hope that's a long long answer but I think everybody deserves that answer.
Your next question comes from the line of Cameron Horwitz with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for Mark here.
Mark can you talk just a little bit about the well design on the Gaucho State well? At 60- or 100-foot lateral 18 stages so about 375 feet per stage.
Seems a little bit wide.
Can you just talk about why didn't you do a little bit more frac intensity in terms of the number of stages on that well? Cameron this is Mark.
That's very similar to both our Haynesville and our Eagle Ford designs.
In fact in the Eagle Ford we typically catch about 400 feet or a little bit over 400 feet per stage.
We use 9 clusters per stage and we limit the number of perforations so that we get about 2 barrels a minute per perforation.
Here we use 7 perforation clusters per stage instead of 9.
And so we're a little bit more conservative here than we are in the Eagle Ford where we've proven to our ourselves that that design works.
And so I would say we're a little more conservative here.
Obviously the less clusters you catch and the tighter the spacing the more expensive the completion.
So we feel like we've balanced out here in this completion pretty well.
And if can we prove through some logging and analysis that we can add a cluster or 2 at each stage in the future we'll probably do that.
But for now we're probably going to stick with this design.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to dig in a little bit on the cost structure side of the equation.
Cost structure on the lifting side propped up in the fourth quarter just curious on the outlook for that as you work through '13 as you bring company volumes back on should we expect that to come back down or just probably how should we think about that? Sure Micheal this is Roland.
If you look at the today the lifting cost just by the regions I think you will see some improvement in the South Texas region just a modest improvement with the higher volumes because there's still a fixed cost structure there.
But again we will be adding some dollars to the overall lifting cost as we put more wells in our official lift and the other type costs that goes along with that.
So that the lifting cost rate in the fourth quarter was like $1.93 per Mcfe even though it still had an Mcfe basis.
And we see that declining slightly as we look ahead to 2013 with the better volumes.
I think there'll be a more dramatic improvement in the West Texas area the same way where we had a repair cost also in the quarter and had a $4.11 per Mcfe-type lifting total all-in rate including gathering and production taxes.
We see a big improvement to that rate with the volumes coming up in that area.
But then as a company-wide obviously in the gas -- where the gas production is other than the production taxes and gathering costs which are fairly proportional to the production levels we'll see higher rates lifting rates in the Haynesville/Bossier just because of the volume declines and the rest of the costs there are fairly fixed.
And so company-wide I don't -- I think that we will have those 2 factors kind of working together.
And then so as far as the overall lifting rate which was $1.19 in the fourth quarter I think the numbers we'll see a little higher lifting rates consolidated for all of the regions as we go into 2013.
We see it at a level starting kind of where it was the fourth quarter to all-in kind of lifting rates approaching $1.40 or something by the end of the year just as the mix of oil is higher versus the gas and just the lower gas volumes and the fixed cost.
So kind of a complicated answer but that's kind of what we'll see overall.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then I guess also on a kind of corporate level I think you in the past alluded to reaching closer towards a kind of cash flow neutrality in back half of '13 I guess.
Where is your head on that? And excluding any impacts of a potential JV we'll see that occurring in '13 or is that being pushed back at this point? No Michael we see us getting very close to that in the second half of '13 with the oil mix.
Of course a lot of it depends on overall -- especially the gas what's the gas commodity price is and are we closer to the $4 are we closer to the $3.
It's a big variable there.
But -- and I think we've also been fairly conservative in the estimate of cost as you can see from our budget.
So I think we're still under this year's plan without the JV bring those 2 rigs close to each other in the second half of 2013 with a modest overspend in the first half given where current natural gas prices are at in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so those are -- those comments are based on basically strip pricing today? Is that...
Right those are based on the strip pricing today.
So we always -- in all our planning we use strip pricing.
So every time we want to look at it we just run them again versus taking a view on -- a different view on the market.
So I think what the idea of really achieving debt reduction and really de-levering the balance sheet is what we want to accomplish by bringing a partner into the Permian.
And so that's a big focus of this year's goal as well as developing the 2 big oil plays.
Well and like Roland said if you talk at maybe the game changer in the Permian for the horizontal the Wolfcamp A I mean in the model we get horizontal wells just a slight increase from the vertical wells that we know what their average IP rate is.
So we bump that up a little bit but we don't give it a high number.
So if these wells come in at a high number then that's a game changer too as you know.
Your next question comes from the line of Mario Barraza with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Jay I just want to follow up on your comments about in the Delaware Basin.
You mentioned you're going to be targeting the Tier 1 acreage.
How would you rank now that you've delineated on a vertical basis the acreage on a tier side Tier 1? Is there a few tiers say Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3? And how does that break out percentage-wise? Well I think when I say Tier 1 when we look at our drilling program in 2013 we're going to focus if we can again some of this is lease obligation-driven we're going to focus our vertical wells near offset wells maybe on different leases.
We've had 300- 400- 500-barrel a day IP rate wells.
We're going to try to do that and then we'll try to stay away from the areas where vertically we put our 180- 190- 200-type barrel a day wells.
And you can see that on one of the charts that we've handed out.
I mean that's our goal if we can do that.
I mean there might be some straggler wells that we need to drill in order to hold the lease blocks but that's not something we're going to try to focus on.
Mark might want to comment some more on that but that's how I look at.
That's exactly what we're going to try to do.
We still haven't determined that some of the fringe acreage isn't valuable for horizontal drilling.
So until we determine that one way or the other where we can we're going to hold the large acreage blocks.
But we're going to do that with a minimum number of wells and minimum cost and really try to focus to build our production more than anything.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification point Jay earlier in the call you said that your footprint now is 42 000 net acres.
Is that correct or is it the 44 000 still? We started out a year and 2 months ago at 44 000.
Then we traded some acreage.
We bought a little acreage.
We sold a little acreage.
And so the net I think the net is like 41 500 acres to 42 000 net acres.
That's the number.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my questions have been touched on.
I just wanted to check on the time when those horizontal Haynesville wells will be coming online.
Well the Gaucho well the [indiscernible] should be...
No the Horizontal Haynesville well did you say? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's correct.
I believe we have those scheduled -- we have a rig scheduled to come in in I'm thinking it's the first or second week of March.
And they're 2 wells on the same pads.
We're just going to go ahead and drill them both at the same time so they're probably May or June probably May or June as far as IP rates on those 2.
And those are lease obligation wells under a lease we took and we [indiscernible] up a while back.
And we were obligated to drill 4 wells and we drilled 2 of them last year and these will be the other 2 remaining wells.
And then as far as all the other wells in the well count those are just non-placeholders assuming that some of the partners would propose wells.
We just don't -- we haven't -- don't have any proposed at this time.
We don't know if anybody's going to propose any to us or not.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a quick question on CapEx.
You see kind of level spending throughout the year.
I heard you talking about being close to cash flow neutral in the second half.
Does that assume kind of level CapEx numbers throughout the year? That's correct Richard.
We think the -- that given -- yes the rig count will stay very consistent through the year.
So other than the Haynesville where we might -- that activity will bring the rig count of a one-off activity.
So in the end we'll make a run at trying to extend that or push that out.
But it may not be successful so it's budgeted.
So that's the only activity that would be kind of in one particular quarter which sounds like it could be more in the second quarter.
But the rest of it will be fairly leveled out.
Some of the completions may stack up heavier in one quarter than another.
That's all the time we have for today's Q&amp;A session.
I would now turn the call back over to Jay Allison for any closing remarks.
Yes thank you Erica.
And again our goal this conference call is to get quite frankly 2012 behind us and it's to continue to transition this company I mean away from this 98% natural gas platform we had which at that time several years ago that was a good platform today it's a horrible platform.
And in order to change the platform we did have to add 2 Tier 1 oil basins.
I think we're exactly where we need to be.
I think our performance is a little lumpy.
We're very disappointed in the fourth quarter results.
I think that's part of just transitioning to become an oil company.
And that's a little bit of the lumpiness in the Eagle Ford which again is the driver.
We did have a disappointing Dale Evans well and that did hurt production and we're not going to do that again in 2013.
We're going to kind of hunker down drill these Wolfcamp A wells which is out of the Gaucho the Balmorhea or some others maybe.
And it will -- the Permian is a very hot area right now.
We've had phone calls asking what they could do with us in the Permian for prospective partners.
So that's a good thing.
It's a good thing to be in a nice hot area where I think 20% of all the oil produced in the United States comes from the Permian and that's for a reason and we're right in the middle of it.
So we're very very pleased.
And we were at a conference last week and we were in New York a couple of weeks ago and our goal was and we didn't know this and Mark moved up this completion date on the Gaucho because really the Gaucho initially wasn't scheduled to be completed until today.
But we did move that up and we did have the 18-stage frac and like he said we should start flowing that well back today.
And that's a great thing so we at least don't have that hanging out there.
And we just need to see the rock quality of the Wolfcamp A that we drilled in.
And again as Mark said it's between 2 good offset wells that some other companies own.
So we'll see what happens and I hope that we've given full accountability of 2012 and particularly where we're going in 2013.
It's a privilege to work here and we try to do the right thing and we try to be accountable.
So anyhow thank you.
Thank you for your participation on today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
Everyone may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Comstock Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you Stephanie.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources First Quarter 2013 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled First Quarter 2013 Results.
I'm Jay Allison President of Comstock.
And with me this morning are Roland Burns our Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2013 first quarter operating and financial results and discuss our pending sale of our West Texas properties to Rosetta Resources.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentations and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
If you'd go to Slide 3 it's the 2013 first quarter highlights.
I will summarize our first quarter results.
The declining natural gas production results from pulling all of our rigs out of the Haynesville last March and the improving oil and gas prices defined our first quarter results.
We had oil and gas sales including the gains from our hedging program of $97 million from our continued operations.
Our total EBITDAX was $81 million and our total cash flow from operations were $62 million or $1.28 per share.
We reported a net loss from continuing operations of $24.5 million or $0.52 per share for the quarter.
Given the activity that is planned in South Texas in our Eagle Ford shale program we are expecting another strong year of oil production growth.
Oil made up 14% of our total production in the first quarter excluding our West Texas properties and it's expected to average 20% this year.
We expect that oil production from our Eagle Ford shale properties will grow 28% to 34% over 2012 driven by our successful drilling program.
In the first quarter we drilled 11 successful Eagle Ford wells and completed 10 wells which had an average per well initial production rate of 845 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The 2013 completions have initial rates that are 32% higher than initial rates in 2012.
We'll have a very strong balance sheet after the West Texas divestiture that we'll discuss today.
We will have over $800 million in pro forma liquidity and our pro forma net debt improves to 29% of our total capitalization.
Please refer to Slide 4 now in our presentation where we summarize the pending sale of our West Texas properties.
On March 15 we announced an agreement with Rosetta Resources to sell our properties in Reeves and Gaines County in West Texas for a sale price of $768 million subject to customary purchase price adjustments and closing conditions.
The sale will have an effective date of January 1 2013 and is expected to close on May 14 2013.
The sale represents all of our assets in the Permian basin so we will reflect these properties as discontinued operations in our financial results.
Proved reserves related to these properties were 26.8 million barrels of oil equivalent and 1 700 BOE per day of our 2012 production.
We intend to use the proceeds from the sale to primarily reduce debt and to improve our balance sheet.
We expect to realize a gain of over $250 million on the transaction which represents an outstanding return for our stockholders for the 1 year that we owned these properties.
Despite the substantial gain from the sale we expect the current tax liability for this year to be less than $2 million.
I will now turn it over to Roland Burns to provide the financial impact of this transaction and to review our first quarter results in more detail.
Roland it's yours.
Thanks Jay.
On Slide 5 in the presentation we break out our West Texas properties from our 2012 results.
This slide breaks out the 2012 results so you can see the impact of this transaction going forward on our numbers.
And as Jay said starting this quarter we're reflecting the assets and the operating results of the West Texas properties as discontinued operations and we're excluding them from our continuing operations results.
The properties we're selling represented 22% [ph] of our oil production at 1 400 barrels per day in 2012 and less than 1% of our natural gas production at 2 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2012.
These properties generated $47 million in revenues or 11% of our 2012 revenues.
Oil as a percent of our total revenues decreases to 47% without West Texas as compared to 52% with it.
Our average oil price realization before hedging improves to $101.09 per barrel as compared to $96.95 per barrel.
Our average natural gas price realization decreases to $2.49 per Mcf as compared to $2.52.
Lifting cost per Mcfe produced improves to $0.96 from $1.06.
And DD&amp;A per Mcfe improves to $3.77 as compared to $3.85.
$202 million of our $549 million in capital expenditures last year were spent on the Permian properties and we sold 23% of our proved reserves in the transaction including 52% of our oil reserves.
81% of the reserves that we sold were undeveloped.
So after the sale 75% of our total reserves are developed as compared to 62% before the sale.
Now looking at our first quarter 2013 results.
On Slide 6 we show our oil production by region on a daily basis and we show it for the last 3 years and for the first quarter of 2013.
The West Texas oil production is shown on red on this chart and it's also combined with other production that we have sold in the past.
Total first quarter 2013 oil production increased to 6 700 barrels per day and was 600 barrels per day higher than the fourth quarter last year.
Half the increase was in the discontinued West Texas properties being sold which averaged 1 900 barrels per day in the first quarter.
The other half was from our Eagle Ford properties in South Texas which increased to 4 600 barrels per day.
In the fourth quarter last year and the first 2 months of the first quarter this year we had many of our Eagle Ford Shale wells shut in due to artificial lift installation or for offset frac activity.
We got all these wells back on production by the end of February.
And with the increased drilling that's now planned for the Eagle Ford in the second half this year we expect our oil production from continuing operations to grow by approximately 28% to 34% over last year's pro forma continuing operations production.
The total continuing operations oil production we think will average between -- will be around 2.3 million barrels to 2.4 million barrels of oil in 2013.
Slide 7 shows our natural gas production on a daily basis.
As expected with limited drilling activity last year our natural gas production declined by 9% to 177 million cubic feet per day as compared to the 195 million cubic feet per day in the fourth quarter of last year.
Production from our Haynesville and Bossier wells which is shown in dark blue on this chart declined to 124 million per day this quarter.
Our remaining gas production rates remained the same as in the fourth quarter.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells shown in green averaged 25 million per day.
Our South Texas gas production shown in light blue was 20 million per day and Other gas production shown in purple was 5 million per day.
And then we are divesting 3 million per day of our gas production which is attributable to our West Texas properties.
We expect our natural gas production related to the continuing operations to decline further this year and to be approximately 57 Bcf to 61 Bcf which will be a decrease of 25% to 30% from pro forma 2012 production from continuing operations.
Slide 8 shows our realized oil prices related to our continuing operations.
Our price realizations in South Texas continued to be strong in the first quarter of 2013 as we realized $105.82 per barrel up slightly from $105.19 per barrel we realized in the first quarter of 2012.
With the significant Gulf Coast premium we received in the first quarter our realized price averaged 112% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price.
89% of our oil production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX WTI price of $98.67.
So after our hedging program our realized price improves to $111.19 per barrel 9% higher than the after-hedging oil price we averaged in the first quarter of 2012 of $102.06.
On Slide 9 we outline our hedge position for the remainder of this year.
We have a very attractive oil hedge program which protects our 2003 (sic)  drilling program.
We have 5 778 barrels hedged per day for the second quarter at $98.69; 5 556 barrels per day in the third quarter hedged at $98.72; and 6 000 barrels per day hedged for the fourth quarter at $98.67 per barrel.
Slide 10 shows our average gas price which improved by 21% in the first quarter to $3.15 per Mcf as compared to $2.61 in the first quarter of 2012.
Our realized gas price was 94% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
On Slide 11 we cover our oil and gas sales including the hedging gains or losses.
Our decline in natural gas production was offset in part by improved oil and gas prices in the quarter though sales related to our continuing operations decreased by 5% to $97 million in the first quarter as compared to $102 million in 2012's first quarter.
Our oil production made up 49% of our total sales as compared to 43% in the first quarter of last year.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX increased by 3% to $81 million from $79 million in 2012's first quarter as shown on Slide 12.
$9 million of our EBITDAX in the first quarter was related to the discontinued West Texas operations with $72 million attributable to our continuing operations.
Slide 13 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $62 million a 10% decrease from cash flow of $67 million at 2012's first quarter.
$6 million of our operating cash flow in the first quarter was related to the discontinued West Texas operations with $56 million attributable to our continuing operations.
On Slide 14 we outline our earnings.
We reported a net loss of $24.5 million or $0.52 per share from our continuing operations and a loss of $2.6 million or $0.06 per share from our discontinued West Texas operations as compared to earnings of $1.4 million or $0.03 per share in 2012's first quarter.
The first quarter financial results in both periods include several unusual items.
We had gains from the sales of marketable securities in both quarters.
In the first quarter of 2013 we had a gain of $7.9 million or $5.1 million after tax or $0.11 per share from the sale of our remaining position in Stone Energy and we had a gain of $26.6 million or $17.3 million after tax or $0.37 per share in the first quarter of 2012 on the sale of 1.2 million shares of Stone.
We had mark-to-market unrealized losses related to our oil derivatives of $8.8 million or $5.7 million after tax or $0.12 per share in the first quarter of 2013 and $10.2 million or $6.6 million after tax or $0.14 per share in the first quarter of 2012.
Both quarters included some impairments on natural gas unevaluated leases in producing properties $2.4 million or $0.03 per share in the first quarter of 2013 and about $1.3 million or $0.02 per share in the first quarter of 2012.
We also have had a gain in 2012 of $6.7 million $4.4 million after tax or $0.09 per share on property sales.
Excluding these items we would've reported a net loss from continuing operations of $0.48 per share this quarter and about $0.27 per share in 2012's first quarter.
On Slide 15 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter related to our continuing operations.
Lifting costs are comprised of 3 components on our income statement: production taxes transportation costs and then other field-level operating costs.
So our total lifting cost increased to $1.07 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to $0.98 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2012 and $1.02 per Mcfe in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase is mainly due to the lower production we have this quarter and the fixed nature of much of the lifting cost.
Production taxes were $0.12 per Mcfe this quarter.
Our transportation cost averaged $0.23 in the first quarter and then the field operating cost averaged $0.72 this quarter.
On Slide 16 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general administrative cost increased to $0.31 per Mcfe in the first quarter 2013 as compared to $0.21 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2012.
Our total level of G&amp;A expense was roughly the same between the 2 periods so the increase is solely attributable to the lower production volumes we have this quarter.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 17.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the first quarter averaged $4.66 per Mcfe as compared to the $3.24 rate we had in the first quarter 2012 and the $4.43 we averaged in the fourth quarter of last year.
The higher cost of the oil production and the write-down of undeveloped natural gas reserves last year arising out of very low natural gas prices are driving this increase.
On Slide 19 we break out our 2013 drilling budget which has been updated for the increased activity now planned for the Eagle Ford properties in the second half of this year.
This year we expect to spend $347 million on our continuing operations.
The new budget has us drilling 82 wells this year: 10 gas wells and 72 oil wells.
$312 million will be spent on the Eagle Ford shale program to drill 46.9 net wells.
We've also budgeted $32 million for any required drilling to hold acres in the Haynesville shale.
In addition to drilling expenditures we plan to spend another $12 million on acres -- on acreage in 2013.
We'll flip back to get back to -- we have skipped Slide 18.
So let's cover Slide 18 which is an important one where we detailed our capital expenditures relating to our continuing operations incurred this quarter.
So capital expenditures on our discontinued operations after January 1 -- on our discontinued operations after January 1 are going to be reimbursed under the purchase of sale agreement so they're excluded from this slide.
But we did spend $58 million in the first quarter as compared to $140 million we spent in 2012's first quarter on our continuing operations.
The capital expenditures in South Texas which is shown in red relate to our Eagle Ford drilling program and they decreased to $54 million this quarter as compared to $68 million we spent in last year's first quarter.
Lower well cost and to promote that we're earning under our KKR joint venture account for the decrease.
With low natural gas prices our spending for our natural gas properties in North Louisiana declined to only $4 million this quarter as compared to the $72 million we spent in the first quarter of 2012.
Our capital expenditures related to our continuing operations this quarter line up pretty well with the $56 million that we generated in operating cash flow from our continuing operations.
So now we'll go ahead and go to Slide 20 which recaps our balance sheet at the end of the first quarter.
And we also show our pro forma balance sheet for the West Texas divestiture which we expect to close in the second quarter.
On March 31 we had $1.3 billion of total debt which is comprised of about $885 million of senior notes and then $450 million outstanding under our buying credit facility.
Our current borrowing base under the bank facility is $570 million which leaves us about $120 million in availability.
Pro forma for the West Texas divestiture will have $325 million of cash on the balance sheet and a note bank debt outstanding.
Accordingly our net debt will be reduced to $560 million and will fall to 29% of our total capitalization as compared to 59% where it is today.
I'll now turn it over to Mark to review our drilling results in the first quarter.
Thanks Roland.
On Slide 21 we cover our South Texas operations where all of the activity is in our oil-focused Eagle Ford shale play which has identified resource potential of 78 million barrels of oil equivalent net to our interest.
In the first quarter we drilled 11 horizontal oil wells or 7.2 net and had 3 wells or 2.3 net drilling at March 31.
We have completed 10 6.4 net horizontal Eagle Ford shale wells including 6 3.8 net wells that were drilled in 2012.
The 10 Eagle Ford shale wells that were completed had an average per well initial production rate of 854 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Slides 22 and 23 show the results and locations of the 57 wells which are currently producing in the Eagle Ford.
We completed 10 more Eagle Ford wells -- Eagle Ford shale wells since our last update.
They are wells #48 through 57 on this list.
The 57 Eagle Ford shale wells that were completed had an average per well initial production rate of 729 BOE per day.
These wells are being produced under the company's restricted choke program and the initial tests were obtained with a 14/64 to 16/64-inch choke.
The 30-day per well production rate for these wells averaged 560 BOE per day and the 90-day per well rate averaged 464 BOE per day or 68% of the initial 24-hour test.
The 2013 completions have initial rates that are 32% higher than the initial rates in 2012.
The 4 wells with the highest initial production rates were the Swenson A #1H the Gloria Wheeler C #1H the Gloria Wheeler A #3H and the Rancho Tres Hijos B #1H all located in McMullen County.
There you go.
These wells are located in McMullen County and had an initial production rate of 1 222 1 032 978 and 968 BOE per day.
As I said Slide 23 shows the location of the 57 producing Eagle Ford wells.
On Slide 24 we show how the cost of our Eagle Ford Shale wells have come down considerably since we started drilling in August of 2010.
The costs in this slide have been adjusted to a standardized lateral length of 5 800 feet to make them comparable.
The costs are based on actual cost for completed wells and AFE costs for future wells.
You can see that in the beginning these wells cost over $12 million and that has significantly improved to just under $8 million.
Faster drill times and lower well stimulation costs account for much of the savings.
Slide 25 shows the location of our planned 72 Eagle Ford wells reflecting an increase from our original plan with the pending West Texas sale.
We plan to add an additional 3 operator rigs in the second half of the year.
You can see the high concentration of planned wells in McMullen County where we have achieved the best results.
Slide 26 shows the net Eagle Ford wells being put on production per month in 2012 and what is projected for 2013 which reflects the addition of 3 new rigs in the second half of 2013.
The monthly variation is due to multi-well pad drilling and subsequent multi-well stimulation operations which result in the lumpiness of the result -- of the resulting Eagle Ford production curve in 2013.
Production in the first quarter of this year was affected by low number of completions in that quarter.
The second quarter Eagle Ford production will benefit from a high level of completions while the third quarter will have a slower rate of increase due to lower activity in that quarter.
The impact of the accelerated program will be seen in the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year.
I'll now turn it over to Jay.
All right.
Again Thank you Roland and thank you Mark.
If everybody return to Slide 27 which is the 2013 outlook.
On Slide 27 I'll summarize our outlook for the rest of the year.
Even though natural gas prices are improving as we all know we will remain focused on increasing our oil production with our Eagle Ford shale drilling program which provides high returns on our investment.
We will not start drilling natural gas wells until we have high returns on those projects.
We expect the strong growth in our oil production will more than offset the natural gas production declines to allow us to have higher revenues and cash flow and be a much more profitable company in 2013.
We expect oil to comprise 20% of 2013's production even after the sale of our Permian Basin properties.
93% of the net wells we will drill in 2013 will be oil wells and 90% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
Post the West Texas sale we'll be able to ramp up our high-return Eagle Ford program and drill 72 wells by the end of the year.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
We'll have a very strong balance sheet after the West Texas divestiture closes on May 14.
We will have over $800 million in pro forma liquidity and our pro forma net debt improves to 29% of total capitalization from 59% at the end of the first quarter.
And we see our 6-rig Eagle Ford drilling program being funded with our operating cash flow by the end of this year.
For the rest of the call we will take questions only from the research analysts who follow the stock.
So Stephanie we'll turn it back over to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the Eagle Ford can you maybe talk about what you have been drilling on in terms of spacing and what you have tested or planned to test over the next call it 6 to 12 months? Yes Mark? Yes.
We're currently drilling -- you have to look at it a little bit different than acreage spacing because of the lateral lengths in the area and the shape of the acreage.
So our current spacing pattern is about 500 feet.
So that's how we're set up to drill and really that -- we're in development mode now and that's our goal is to drill at this 500-foot spacing pattern.
And we may do a little bit of testing.
We have no firm plans at the moment to test the tighter spacing than that.
That's really how we're established on our acreage at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you add -- I guess when you get to 6 rigs almost everything -- or you have no HPP issues? Everything should be pad drilling? Almost everything is.
We will have a little bit of drilling on some of the northern acreage and then 1 acreage block to the West that has not been drilled on yet that is still [indiscernible] to be drilling.
But say 90% of our drilling will be development drilling on pad sites.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any other acreage? Are you all looking at other acreage in the Eagle Ford and around your areas? And I'll hang up and listen.
One thing that we were really not able to do because we were pretty cash-strapped before the divestiture of the Permian -- I mean we weren't actively seeking any new acreage position.
Even though I think we would have had some financial backing with our partner I don't think we have "the headcount" to do that.
So now yes this has freed us up to take a look at that and we have been taking looks at that.
If you're the size company we are it doesn't take many additional acres to have a pretty big impact.
I'll tell you what we're not interested doing.
We're not interested in buying hundreds of thousands of acreage in this goat pasture just to tell you we have a lot of extra acreage out there because we're not going to squander money like that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> A question just on the Eagle Ford program.
You provide all the well results.
And looking at Slide 25 am I counting the dots right in the sense that if you look at your 72-well program it looks like about 60 of those 72 wells are going to be more in that central part of McMullen County where you've had the stronger well results? Is that right? And then as you move forward as well is that where you think the activity will remain concentrated? Ron yes.
In fact again one of the things that we can do with a delevered balance sheet is we can double down on our rig count in the Eagle Ford and we had de-risked the Eagle Ford by probably middle of last year.
And what we wanted to do and like we've shown on some of these slides we want to reduce our cost and we want to increase our IP rates.
And one way to do that is to drill more of your wells in McMullen.
And so yes you're exactly right.
And as far as Brian had asked a question earlier about whether the acreage is HPP [ph] if you remember in 2010 and '11 our total gross rig count or well count in Eagle Ford was 17 wells in all of 2010 and '11.
Last year we drilled 30 gross wells.
This year because of the divestiture again we'll drill 72 gross wells in 2013.
And Mark had talked about a little spottiness.
Well we had a lot of spottiness going on in the Eagle Ford program before we were able to add the fourth and fifth and sixth rig.
In fact and I looked at the numbers in the third and fourth quarter with this new business model which again I think Roland said we're pretty much going to fund this out of our free cash flow from continuing operations that's our goal.
I mean if you look at the completions that we'll have added in the third and fourth quarter along with this new drilling program it's almost 14 new net completed Eagle Ford wells.
That's why we can take this production in Eagle Ford from this 40 -- 300 400 or 500 barrels a day hopefully we can exit it to 9 000-plus barrels a day and then we can do a lot better than that at the end of 2014 again hopefully within our free cash flow from operations and at the same time have a completely undrawn credit line of $0.5 billion and $300 million in the bank.
I mean if you believe the old adage of "cash is king " we're going to be in pretty good shape for that.
We're rambling but we're pretty excited about where we are because if you've ever owned a share of stock we haven't diluted you and issued any shares for over 8 years.
We don't have any other the derivatives out there except for bonds and some hedges.
So things are pretty good at Comstock.
So go ahead Ron.
More questions? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The question is as it relates to that $325 million cash position to follow up a little bit on Brian's question about incremental acreage in and around your existing Eagle Ford or I know you have some notes that become callable in October.
And how do you -- at least what's your framework internally of how you evaluate the cost benefits of acreage acquisitions and/or debt reductions versus a potential stock buyback if you view your shares as basically an acquisition opportunity as well? Well again I think my overall answer to that would be when we had our conference call in February of 2013 and reported year end and the fourth quarter we tell all the stakeholders that we had too much debt and we realized that the industry is facing a capital intensity challenge.
And we recognized that And we told the stakeholders that we need to delever the company.
Now I think it's very much a win-win for Rosetta and for Comstock because we had 2 Tier 1 oil plays and they were really Tier 1 and they both needed a lot of capital.
I mean the Permian needs a lot of capital and so does the Eagle Ford.
And we quite frankly with our balance sheet I don't think we were able to tender the capital that was needed in both of those regions because I think our leverage was too high.
When you have too much leverage you get kind of in the danger zone and you flirt with financial issues.
It's not fun.
And most of these companies don't come out of that unscathed.
So by being able to monetize this for a fair price I think what you see to answer your question I think these are the things that we can do now that we couldn't do before we had exited the Permian.
We talked about -- that we've given the stakeholders a very large gain.
It's an unbelievable return to our stockholders within a year.
And we've gone from maybe a $570 million credit facility to $500 million.
It's pretty unbelievable.
I mean that's $0.5 billion undrawn.
And we have as you mentioned the $300-plus million cash in the bank.
So what does that allow us to do now? Well as Brian mentioned we can look at the Eagle Ford now for some acreage 1 000 2 000 3 000 5 000 10 000 whatever.
And we can do that even with our partner KKR because we're kind of hand partners with them.
So I think if we find something that has that [indiscernible] return then we have the ability to do that because our technical team they understand that area.
I think we would be able to tender for our bonds in October if we so choose to do that.
We couldn't do that before.
And if we do that that saves $22 million or so a year.
Now I think we can add to our core area without diluting our stockholders.
I think we've got a new business team here to develop new opportunities.
It's the same group but it's a new business team model.
We couldn't exercise our internal strength with the financial balance sheet we had.
And then again you don't want to not talk about the Haynesville.
I think it does let us re-evaluate our Haynesville/Bossier acreage and what type of internal rate of return we                                           might get in the future.
But the beauty of this is this time last year gas was $2.04.
Today gas is like $4.40.
And we're telling you as a company we're not increasing our rig count in the Haynesville just because gas is even $4.50.
But we're evaluating our opportunities now.
So there's so many things that we can do now that we couldn't do that we were constrained from doing.
And again Ron I think that does include adding Eagle Ford acreage and adding the 3 rigs.
And I think fundamentally I think we will be a much better story as a delevered story.
So Roland might want to comment on that a little bit.
No I think you summarized it really well.
I think the company will have a lot of options to redeploy some of the cash that will be on the balance sheet after the close.
And the goal of the company is to maintain a much stronger balance sheet than we had after acquiring the West Texas assets.
And as natural gas prices improve that also improves the balance sheet just with the natural gas prices almost doubling to where they were especially in the second quarter last year.
So there are a lot of options.
And I think that we're going to close the transaction first and then present a lot of these options to our board and really be mindful of how can we create value if we're the stockholders and in the long run.
And that's what we'll do with this balance sheet.
We're not concerned about the lack of opportunity at the company because we've always had more opportunities to look at -- to either acquire properties or drill properties.
That's never been a weakness of the company as you can look at our long history.
And...
And as Roland said I think one of the criticisms is what's your depth of opportunities? And my answer to that on one-on-ones because we've not been out touting this story is well if you look at who Comstock is it was August of '08 that we monetized our Gulf of Mexico assets to Stone.
And it was at the end of '07 that we started deepening wells in DeSoto Parish whereby '08 '09 that's the heart of the Haynesville/Bossier play.
And then it wasn't until the beginning of 2010 that we sent "our scouts" out to find more oil in South Texas.
So through our G&amp;G group I mean the 27 000 28 000 net acres we have in the Eagle Ford we started adding that in 2010 2011.
And look where the Eagle Ford is today.
Then at the end of 2011 [indiscernible] we announced that we're in the Permian and we'll be out in 2 weeks.
I mean as Roland said we have never ever ever had a shortage of opportunities that quite frankly have been good.
And we've received a gift of a lot of cash and we're going to be good stewards of that cash.
We're going to create wealth for the stockholders on a per share basis.
Period.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one.
This is for you Roland.
On Slide -- I don't know what it is -- 5 where you have -- you tried to break out the financials in terms of the costs unit costs and whatnot x the divestiture.
The pro forma column on the cost side particularly on lifting cost which is the biggest improvement is that a good -- do you think those are good run rates in terms of your total lifting costs and overall cost structure? Or how should we think about the cost structure post asset sale in mid-May? I think they're definitely a good indication of the different property mix.
Obviously the West Texas properties were not a large component of the numbers yet.
But the other things you have to be mindful of is lifting cost is not a variable number.
Only property [ph] production taxes and the transportation are pretty variable to production rates.
So until we -- with some of the decline in production in the Haynesville I mean some of the lifting cost will still be there in less volumes to amortize it over.
So I think that would be the only other trend that will happen a little bit.
I think the absolute level of lifting cost we had this quarter on a dollar amount is very -- on a continuing operations basis is a good indication of what we expect for most of this year.
And that number on a unit basis could look higher with the lower volumes that we can have from the gas area.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Did the first quarter include some higher cost associated with the artificial lift that may not be repeated in the second quarter? Or is that just incorrect? There was a little bit of that in the first quarter.
But then of course with -- I think when you take into account some of the additional production we're putting on I think that absolute level is kind of fairly indicative of what we could expect in the quarters in the future versus the -- probably increasing for a different reason and decreasing for the lack of those workovers.
A lot of those workovers were probably in the discontinued operations' lifting cost.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jay you made a comment that potentially you get to get after gas a little bit now that you've got a much improved balance sheet.
It didn't sound like that was really 2013.
I guess Roland you said obviously you guys will have a board meeting post to close in May.
I'm just trying to get a sense of whether or not it's reasonable to expect to say gas was $4.50 or higher in 2014 for you guys to drill some gas wells? I think what we do after the closing is we evaluate all of our opportunities.
I mean in the Eagle Ford right now we'll probably get a 40% to 50% IRR.
And unless it's competitive to the Eagle Ford then I don't see us putting any meaningful number of rigs to drill natural gas.
Most of that gas is HPP and we've proven that.
Because this year if you look at the 10 wells that we'll participate in maybe but that's really kind of not accurate.
I mean that's a gross number.
If you dig down in that number it's like 3.2 net wells.
And out of that 2 of them are mandatory that we drill to hold acreage.
The rest of that is a guess that we might receive an AFE as a non-operator.
So no.
We're not -- even though we think natural gas fundamentals right now are looking better than oil we're not interested in putting a lot of rigs or any rigs in drilling the Haynesville/Bossier.
It's HPP.
I think we should use our cash elsewhere right now.
I do think if we have an industry partner that wants to accumulate some acres in Tier 1 Haynesville's then we'd be interested in that.
And guess what there's 0 acreage like that for sale because they shouldn't be sold.
It's too valuable.
So no I think again as Roland had mentioned earlier once we close we'll have a strategic board meeting and a management meeting and we'll see where oil prices are where gas prices are.
We'll get from Mark what our well results look like.
And again in the Eagle Ford there are 32% higher IP rates than they were last year.
And we'll see what our new business opportunities are and we'll put a budget together where we have a CapEx that's within our cash flow.
And I think that's what you're going to see from us.
It's going to be a much more predictable story with a lot less risk with a lot more upside that is more predictable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess as a brief follow-up to that you mentioned the 2 wells you have drilled this year hold acreage on a net basis.
Just trying to get a sense of where that might go next year will you also have some obligation wells to drill next year and how many might that be? Well maybe got a couple more.
Yes Leo the 2 wells that we're drilling right now tie up that unit.
And so it's HBP.
And I'm not aware at the moment of anything we really have obligation-wise for next year.
I think that was kind of the last one on the books for us.
What we might do is if our reservoir group and G&amp;G  group and Mark all agree and we want to test a longer lateral or 2 or 3 or 4 of those type wells in the Haynesville/Bossier and see what the economics looks like and what the IP rates are and what the RoR is what our well costs are.
We wouldn't consider that a "Haynesville/Bossier drilling program " we'd look at that more as an exploration type program to see if we can de-risk and add meaningful reserves and a lot lower cost to have a much higher RoR.
But as far as a "Haynesville/Bossier Drilling Program " we're not really looking at that at all right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful color.
And I guess just jumping over to the Eagle Ford you guys talked about pretty significant downtime on production in the field due to installing artificial lift and then just offset frac activity.
It looks like that's been happening for the past couple of quarters.
Is there any way you guys can give us like a ballpark quantification where that's hitting production by 15% or 20%? Or is there any way just to think about that? And then going forward is that going to persist for the rest of the year? Would you expect that to be ironed out  at some point? Whether that's this year or next? This is Mark.
I think it hit production in late Q4 early Q1 by maybe 20% to 25%.
Almost all of that was resolved in February.
It basically had everything back on -- around the end of February.
So we were starting to get our production back full force in March but we just didn't have many completions until March and those didn't start selling until late March.
So we just didn't see any effect of all those completions in the Q1 numbers.
Q2 numbers should be much better.
And we'll always have a little bit of ongoing downtime from offset frac-ing and from installation of artificial lift and just R&amp;M or repair and maintenance on these type of wells.
But it will be much more manageable I believe going forward.
More like 10% which is kind of a normal number.
And what we've tried to do if you go back to the February report that we put out and look at the Eagle Ford well completions if you'll compare that to Slide 26 what we tried to do to answer that question is we try to put the well completions on a monthly basis.
And you'll see that's what we add in the third and fourth quarter another 13 14 net wells to try to take out some of that lumpiness.
You will still see it on this Slide 26 but if you go back to the February 2013 slide and you look at that one versus Slide 26 it's not nearly as lumpy.
And the reason is again I think that the Permian and our Eagle Ford plays were materially undercapitalized.
I think that's why Rosetta got a great property and I think we now have the cash to accelerate our Eagle Ford and you see the results of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with Eagle Ford for one quick second.
So the current well completion chart that you guys talk about that incorporates the ramp to 6 rigs correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And we get to that if you could remind me one more time please by the end of third quarter by the end of fourth quarter the 6-rig program? Well what you see is our goal is to add rig -- we have 3 rigs now those results that we gave you.
We exited 2012 with 3 rigs.
So what you see on this what we gave you as first quarter number that's a 3-rig program that's kind of implemented.
So now what you see another rig in May another rig in June and hopefully our sixth rig in July.
That's our goal.
And that's what the chart shows.
So really if you look at the chart it's in the fourth quarter that you see what 2014 might look like if we have a 6-rig program all of 2014 and it's pretty material oil production growth.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
We can give the stakeholders with a total 6-rig program in 2014.
Now Rehan you have to put an asterisk by that because we were going to see what oil prices are we're going to see what our cash flow looks like we're going to see what the share prices are we're going to see if the shares trade at a decent multiple.
All these are things we're going to look at before we commit to the stakeholders and to the analysts Rehan what we're going to do in 2014.
But I think that probably answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
And then a quick 1 or 2 more.
As you have looked for these incremental rigs directionally speaking drilling completion costs any color on that? Well we have a slide that shows you we're down $10 million to like $7.7 million.
And Mark can you comment any more if it was here on that slide.
What slide is that? That's Slide 24.
And you can see that those costs that really flattened out in the last 3 4 months and I believe that we're pretty stable.
Our frac contract is stable until end of the year.
I don't see those costs coming down anymore.
The rigs we're picking up.
Our plan to pick up will be very similar to the rigs we're running right now.
And so that cost that $7.7 million or so is really the pad drilling the current frac contract and the high-efficiency rigs.
So I think that's about where we're at.
I think we have what the [indiscernible] campaign [ph] and Cactus is that who we're using? That's what we're using now.
Yes right now.
We're using 2 [indiscernible] campaign and 1 Cactus rig right now.
Research Division</strong> Perfect perfect.
And Mark one more question.
I missed the call the beginning of the call.
So did you go and talk about kind of down-spacing? Other folks talk about going as low as 40 acres in the Eagle Ford.
You guys are around 80.
Could you walk us through maybe some path towards if not testing right now when and kind of what data are we waiting for before we try it? Right Rehan.
We're established right now.
Our spacing pattern is 500 feet.
So it's about 60 acres on a 4 500-foot lateral and it's about 90 to 100 acres on a 9 000 or 10 000-foot lateral.
So it's really based on width between wells and not acreage.
So the 40-acre pattern may be shorter laterals in a more prolific part of the play.
I don't think that's really feasible where we are.
So we think we're at the right spacing and we may look -- we're still monitoring everybody else.
We're looking at our results.
We may test a little bit too.
But right now we're pretty well established on that 500-foot spacing.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And one last one I promise on this one.
So what kind of recovery factors are implied in your resource potential that you detailed on Page 21? We're probably in the 6% or 7% range is where we're -- and it depends a little bit on the area you're at but that's kind of the average recovery factor across our play.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then what will in your mind what will it take to move it higher for yourself and maybe for the industry? Well tightened up -- tightened well spacing is the way to move that number significantly at this point I mean where you can put larger frac job you can put tighter cluster spacing which we are testing now.
We've done some larger frac jobs we've done some tighter cluster spacing to improve that incrementally but those will be small changes.
The biggest one would be in-field tighter well spacing but it depends on what economics you're at now.
If you're at 100% rate of return you can down-space.
If you're at 40% or 50% rate of return you damage your rate of return too much by down-spacing and so I think we're at the right spacing for our economics.
And Rehan one thing.
If you want to really and truly know -- decide if you want to figure out how to do something you get an Aggie to do it because they have great engineers something they really do.
Mark is an Aggie and I'm telling you he's a big [indiscernible] he's been here 17 years and if there's a way you can increase recovery factor or down space it and it makes sense you have to trust that we will do it.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And Roland on the October the bonds we talked about their callable in October is that kind of the rough timeframe? That's correct.
We have one of our issues was probably on I think October 15.
And given that it's 8 5/8 effective rate given that coupon it's a real big savings to next year it's interest expense.
So that's something that we'll be looking at pretty hard if we want to exercise that opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And then it's callable at what Revpar? I think it's like 104.
It's the first call date and then if we decide to wait obviously the call price goes down every year.
Your next question comes from the line of Kim Pacanovsky with MLV and Co.
Research Division</strong> Back to Page 21 in the presentation.
I mean obviously you've high-graded your acreage you're concentrating in McMullen as you spoke about.
What are your plans for La Salle which really isn't on the agenda for this year? And also as you look at the gross EURs on this slide of 500 MBOE how does that vary through your acreage? Kim this is Mark.
The western acreage in La Salle is a much newer lease so a much later lease term than the acreage in McMullen County.
So we plan on starting that program in early 2014 and that will be a development area for us then.
It just isn't -- timing wise it is unnecessary to develop that La Salle acreage now.
The results are very similar to our -- the results around it that we've seen from other operators is very similar to some of our McMullen County acreage.
So we do expect it to be very much in the middle of the package as far as acreage goes for us.
It is -- we're just not required to start developing it yet at this time.
And then the other question I believe was about EURs.
And basically you can just go from south to north and your EUR is higher than that number to the south and then it dwindles to a lower number than that.
As you go north into Atascosa County and so that basically follows the debt curve or the GOR curve for the most part.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back to Leo's question about the number of wells that will be offline each quarter can you just -- just for modeling purposes let us know what production is running right now? And I know that everything that was off in the first quarter is back on but how many wells are now  -- how many new wells are off now if any? Or how many net wells for the quarter? For Q1? For the Eagle Ford? Kim I don't have that number.
We got almost everything back on in late February and then we've got 3 or 4 wells shut in right now for offset frac-ing that we'll drill right through there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's what I wanted to know.
This then becomes a process.
We're using -- in our internal work we're using about 10% average for downtime in the field.
It was probably double that in December and January when we had our operational issues and we had a lot of wells shut in for frac-ing kind of an unusual number.
But we got that back and the 10% seems to be matching very well.
And how many wells do we have now waiting to be completed in Eagle Ford? We had 3 as of a few days ago I believe that's what I had on the list.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> 3 waiting on completion? And current production today would you give that number? In the Eagle -- you're talking about in the Eagle Ford? Research Division</strong> Yes.
In the Eagle Ford it's between -- I don't have an exact number but it's between 5 000 and 6 000 barrels a day net in the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And any thoughts or observations on the Pearsall? I know we continue to monitor the results.
We've got Pearsall potential under most of our acreage and we drilled that pilot hole and got some log data.
We've traded that for some other log data.
We are not in a hurry to test that concept.
We're letting Cabot and some of the other operators test it and we'll see if the results warrant any capital in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Lear with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Jay you brought up the KKR deal earlier in the Q&amp;A.
And just wanted to get a sense for whether those guys had elected for the next basket of 100 wells.
And I guess some of the --- the impact maybe some of the infill drilling might have on that agreement is I know they have to pay on a like a per well or a per acreage basis.
How does that infill drilling might impact that I guess upfront payment per well? Well Mark this is Roland.
KKR has been participating in all the wells.
And they still haven't -- they're required to do the first 100.
I don't think we -- obviously we haven't drilled 100 yet.
So -- but the returns are very high.
So we expect in all our projections and in our reserve estimates we assume they're going to participate in the full development of the field.
And I think they'll -- if you look at some of their materials and the funds that own it I mean it's performing very well for them.
And they do pay on they pay us basically $667 000 to participate in a well which is equivalent to the $25 000 per acre for the 1/3 of that 80-acre exploration.
So that's going continue through the full development of the field and yes the per month will be paid all the way to the end pretty much unless we decide to down-space to much tighter spacing.
Well Mark and they're pleased because if you're our partner and KKR is all of a sudden we're the operator and you have to provide a check to get -- have a right to participate in the well and the costs come down as we've shown in the slides and production goes up.
And oil is $90-plus a barrel.
I mean you're extremely pleased with the agreement.
And they are and so are we.
So I think like Roland said our economics are based upon them participating in all of those wells.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So -- but as you infill space it's still the $666 000 per well? So I guess I wouldn't handle...
With the agreement...
It's based on the 80 acres.
Yes 80 acres.
And generally that's what the wells are -- I mean that's generally what the plan is.
Now and 	if it's -- either it can be slightly less to the extent that they have 60-acre spacing and they wouldn't have to pay as much as they have less acres.
Basically if you look at the whole plan that's a good number to use.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the that 6-rig run rate would also depend on them.
I guess electing the additional 100 wells are -- if it goes in 100 well tranches when do they have to tell you or when they...
There's not 100 well tranches.
They're committed to do 100 wells upfront because obviously we don't want to -- and after that they can participate.
Or if they choose not to participate then we'll be happy to own 100%.
It's a high-return project.
That's just not -- unless the returns are low they're going to participate.
And if the returns are low we probably want to move our capital somewhere else.
I just don't see a case where that's going to be an issue.
The next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Market.
In considering leasehold acquisitions what's the going rate for Eagle Ford shale and Haynesville shale leasehold these days? Dan this is Mark.
We've really seen very very few deals in either play.
There's really not a going rate.
I mean we -- the last deal we heard about in the Eagle Ford was pretty far from us and it was about $30 000 an acre.
So they don't really have a good baseline there in either play really.
Well a lot of that depends upon where.
I mean there's a lot of goat pastures out there and you buy them.
When they barely go out there the most expensive thing is a billy goat.
It's not worth much.
You see those out there all the time.
I mean there's some acreage that you only pay for PDP wells.
I mean we're looking for acreage that our geologists would want us to buy.
And we start looking at that.
We don't know if we'll get any.
But I think where we were not looking for any earlier we are looking for something.
And again I think Dan we bought $2 billion or so in assets $2.1 billion.
It doesn't take a lot of -- it takes a lot of value to a company like Comstock where we have 48 million shares fully diluted out there.
So I think what we're telling you is that if we find some that we like when we announce it then it should be good.
And when we do I think have a partner who participate with us which is KKR.
Okay.
Okay and as a follow-up let me ask yesterday we read Southwestern will acquire more dry gas properties a move that many suggest the bottoming of natural gas asset value.
Do you believe natural asset values had bottomed? And where does acquiring more Haynesville and Bossier perspectively sold rank among the options you're considering today? Well again I'd comment.
I think natural gas fundamentals right now are -- of course I wouldn't think they're probably better than oil.
I mean oil is $90 $95 and natural gases are going from $204 a year ago to $40 or $50.
I think what you're seeing is you're seeing companies be realistic about all the acreage that they've leased I mean the Southwestern Delaware bought 162 000 acres or whatever it was maybe 2 million cubic feet of gas per day for $90-something million.
I mean so $500 an acre they're really just buying production and paying a little bit for the leases.
I think that there's going to be a Tier 1 2 and 3 in all these major plays whether it's the Haynesville the Bossier the Barnett the Marcellus.
You can call it super rich or whatever but there's going to be a Tier 1 2 3 I don't think you're going to have a fault in this that we had in '08 '09 '10 where people make big bets on leases and you had to drill them also and you have a recession.
When you have a lot of foreign JV partners I don't think -- when gas gets back in the $5-plus range some of the true Tier 1 acreage will be very valuable.
And I think we're starting to see a little shift toward that.
Although the rig count if you look at -- the rig count it's kind of interesting if you do your research but the rig count is at a 14-year low right now in April 2013.
But if you go back a year ago natural gas in 2012 in the month of April was at a 14-year low.
It took the rigs another year to hit that number.
But now this month in 2013 I mean gas is at a 2-year high.
So I think you're seeing a tight turn but I don't think you're seeing any craziness out there and I don't think you'll see it.
I mean the rig count from natural gas rigs went down last week by 13 14 rigs or whatever.
And I think that's where we're kind of the barometer out there we're saying we've got a Tier 1 dry gas play in Haynesville/Bossier and that goes from 0 production to what $7 billion a day in like 4 years.
So we're still not putting any rigs in there to drill our wells because we base it -- the capital dollars that we spend we'll base it upon whatever RoR would be and right now we have better places to put those dollars.
Your next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the quality of the Eagle Ford acreage and maybe some of the variation in the EURs between North and South and whether the returns you're talking about are kind of applicable to the portfolio or just kind of parts of the asset I guess.
Ray this is Mark.
We've talked a lot about our Northern acreage being lower rate of return.
And that's why we haven't focused the drilling up there yet.
We are drilling a well in the Atascosa acreage at this time.
And those rate of returns are probably in the 20% to 30% range whereas as you work your way to the South you're increasing to 40% to 50% to 60% rate of returns.
So the numbers we're talking about are average numbers across the whole portfolio and not just the stuff that's focused on the South end.
I think we have the luxury of this divestiture again the Permian.
It allows us to drill wells majority of these wells in McMullen where in the past we had to kind of scatter them because we did have several parts we needed to drill to hold acreage.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Got it.
And I guess in terms of -- Mark in terms of hydrating the gas assets on the Haynesville what -- if you were looking at kind of a batch -- a number of acres that would work at $4.50 to $5 could you say what that is now? Ray we're working that problem but we don't have the answers to put out the public at this time.
So I'm really not going to get into that.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it great.
And I guess if you were to keep 6 rigs going in the Eagle Ford can you talk about kind of where you might get to on the production side and oil by the end of next year? Yes I think Jay alluded to that a little earlier.
He said we were -- into this year we're in the 9 000 barrel a day range.
And in the next year with the 6-rig program if that's what we do we're probably in the 14 000-barrel a day range something in that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Sneeden with Oppenheimer.
Most of my questions were answered but Roland just kind of a question for you on the balance sheet.
How do you think about leverage going forward? It sounds like you felt a little uncomfortable when you were looking at the leverage north of say 3.5x.
Would it be fair to say that you guys are thinking about trying to keep it under 3x going forward? Well Sean I think we definitely were a little uncomfortable with the leverage being where it is now which is a little over 4x and so that -- some of that's caused by the low natural gas prices last year so some of that it corrects in a $4-plus world.
But some of it is just the level of debt we were carrying and then the capital expenditure level versus cash flow.
So we were uncomfortable with that.
But I think that when we look at -- going forward our goal is to -- is probably to be below -- definitely below 3.5x probably 3x it's probably an okay level for us.
Obviously below 3x that's a great level.
So we really want to be in the upper tier as far as leverage of companies and I think staying below -- in the very low 3s to the high 2s as far as the leverage ratio is where we want to be as a company.
And I think this transaction kind of immediately does put it us into that new ballpark.
Right.
I would agree.
And then -- related just kind of keeping the bias in the forward gas curve how do you guys think about adding hedges on the gas side at all? We have been looking at the forward gas curve and it's amazingly flat too.
I mean I think even going out even 3 maybe 4 years you almost get the same kind of price it's an extremely flat curve.
I think that we kind of see the potential hedging of natural gas -- or natural gas production kind of go hand-in-hand when we think the returns are adequate to start drilling again.
So I think the 2 will kind of probably come together if we kind of -- we get to a level where we can get returns of 20% 25% on capital spend.
I think we might look -- if we look to put a program out there we'll probably look to protect that new gas with a hedge.
I don't see us with the real strong balance sheet we have seeing a lot of need to try to lock in below those return levels just to lock in a certain level of cash flow.
Because you have -- I think we want to be able to be competitive when gas prices do come back and not be locked in to be in a very low return by having hedges in place.
So a strong balance sheet will give us the ability to wait until the right time to start gas development again versus prematurely jumping in now because that's the only thing we have to do.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just kind of one last question on the balance sheet.
Your most recent notes that 9.5% -- remind me is there any sort of mechanism that you guys have in order to take those out earlier just to save on the interest expense? Well the only thing that comes unconventional we do have the equity clawback kind of as we did an equity offering we could retire some of those proceeds.
I mean those are notes.
And -- but we don't really need to do an equity offering.
So right now those notes will probably out there and we'll be able to take the second most expensive notes out if we want to in October.
But obviously you could try to buy those in the open market but they're trading at very very high premiums as they should.
Research Division</strong> And Jay just kind of one clarification.
I think you mentioned you might entertain selling a stake of your Haynesville acreage.
Just so I understand are you planning to run a formal process there? Or are you just kind of throwing that out as an example of what you might do with the asset? Well number one I never said we'd sell anything.
Period.
We're not selling anything.
Asset sales is not a part of our story period.
So if you heard that and I said that then I apologize.
And I didn't say it though.
I think Jay may have been commenting on -- if to the extent that we might want to acquire some future gas acres that might be something we would do with a partner.
But as far as selling any existing assets right now we're not focused on that at all.
Right.
And we would not entertain that at all.
In fact I think Sean that's a great strength we have and then we didn't have to liquidate a Tier 1 gas play or part of it to fund other Tier 1 regions that we have.
Asset sale is not part of our story at all.
In 2 weeks we'll have completed that.
I think we want an inventory that there's kind of Dan and Ray Mark had mentioned earlier and when the fundamental gas price gets competitive for the Eagle Ford then I think you'll see us have a Haynesville/Bossier drilling program but we're not nearly there right now.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I may have heard your previous...
No.
I'm glad you brought that up because if somebody else heard it then we'll clarify that.
That's a great sentence.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the opportunities that you see in front of you.
First if you can just give us a -- your thoughts on your location count in the Central McMullen acreage where you've been knocking out these great wells and just talk maybe in general terms about your running room there.
And second interested to hear if you'd be adding acreage organically or leasing outside of Eagle Ford under some sort of program that might be classified as new ventures type of program.
Well Mike this is Mark.
As far as the Eagle Ford goes you can see the map on Page 25.
The acreage in the -- and we need to get this labeled in the future just so a little easier to talk about.
The acreage kind of farthest to the Southeast is our house track our [indiscernible].
That is pretty well developed after 2013.
The rest of the acreage -- and acreage is just kind of the Northeastern corner of McMullen county is pretty well developed after 2013.
We have a lot of locations left in our Forrest Wheeler area which is the southernmost acreage.
And then the RT Rancho Tres Hijos area which is that really rectangular block south of the name McMullen.
We have a lot of development room there.
And so those will develop in 2014.
And then we'll concentrate more in our 4 corners area which is all the acreage kind of in the corner of the 4 counties.
We have a lot of locations probably 50 to 70 locations just guessing here in that area that we will develop.
And then we'll just continue working our way west and north as long as gas prices allow us to maintain the returns that we want we'll continue to develop the acreage west and north from there.
And then I think as far as adding I mean opportunity is there and we can add acreage that we think gives us the proper rate of return in our core areas we would do that.
And as far as the new areas I mean we do have a business development team.
I mean they're the ones that had us deepen the Haynesville/Bossier back in third and fourth quarter of '07.
They're the ones that led us into the Eagle Ford and led us into Permian.
But you will not see us making a purchase of a producing property.
I mean if we enter a new area it will be kind of like how we entered the Eagle Ford and how we were entering Gaines County.
I mean Rosetta got a good property in Gaines County and that we would have a land group for 2 or 3 leasing acreage and that would be very inexpensive acreage and we would drill our way to prove it up.
So we don't plan to spend any real money on that areas.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And real quick.
6-rig Eagle Ford program what's the ballpark number for a quarterly CapEx under that scenario? I think the -- when the 6 rigs are fully running it's probably about $100 million in that neighborhood based on the KKR participating in the program.
That's about what I had too here.
About $100 million to $110 million a quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
When we think about realized pricing in the Eagle Ford should we be thinking about a discount to LLS or a premium to WTI in terms of the way you've structured yourself? Well I guess it's priced off of LLS.
And that it's not priced off of WTI.
So as most of the oil production in the Eagle Ford for most producers is all LLS price because that's where the oils actually go into that market.
So the relationship between WTI is just -- and Eagle Ford oil is really just a function of the relationship between LLS and WTI.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Roland what kind of a discount should I be thinking out of LLS? I think that historically we have been averaging -- if you take the difference between WTI and LLS we've been capturing about half of that premium net back to us.
And I think as some new transportation arrangements are coming into place where we can go to more pipelines we see that improving.
But those are still on the works they haven't been finalized.
But where we're located at McMullen is kind of the heart of the Eagle Ford and there are some new oil pipelines that even are crossing some of our leases.
So we expect to stop trucking in the future and delivering the pipelines which will create a bigger premium for us and reduce some of the transportation costs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if LLS is coming down relative to WTI you still think your realized prices can go up with the new pipeline options is that what you're saying? Well I think the overall transportation cost will go -- will be reduced.
Our index based price will tie in with LSS.
We'd capture more of that premium with better transportation.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on the Eagle Ford completions in 1Q.
Mark how do those compare to say what you did in 4Q lateral length completion stages et cetera? Richard the lateral lengths I don't have the exact number before me but they've been a little bit longer.
In the first quarter we've got on some leases that had -- we had some long laterals planned.
And so we're probably on average maybe 200 or 300 feet longer.
Our number of stages is really -- relates to lateral length.
So on the longer wells if you're 300 feet longer you'll probably average 1 more -- have 1 more stage in there.
So where we were average at about 15 stages those wells might have been averaging 16 to 17 stages.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's really the....
We're still doing a little bit of experimenting also with cluster spacing and frac size so we're testing that on a few wells as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the completions in 1Q were 15% 20% better IPs on 30-day and 24-hour rate versus 4Q.
Do you think it's mainly a function of the longer lateral or there's other factors in there as well? On the McMullen -- McMullen wells.
Right right.
Some of that's lateral length.
And some of it is just location.
The Gloria Wheeler obviously by the numbers is the best acreage block we have and then we had a number of completions in there.
So some of them may be location but some of it's also lateral length and maybe frac size.
We really don't have enough data to get some definitive answers on that yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Remind us again what's the net acreage split by county for McMullen and La Salle? I don't have that in front of me to tell you the truth.
Yes call us back later.
I don't have an updated report on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I know you had mentioned I guess briefly that your JV partner may look to participate in additional acreage acquisition in the Eagle Ford.
I mean have they given you an indication there? Will it be just participate and to the promote on the wells? Would it be pay part of the cost toward acreage acquisition? That would have to be structured Richard.
We can offer that.
Unless it's very tightly adjacent I think there might be some -- to our acres where they might have some rights we don't even have an AMI.
So it would be something we would just structure and offer as we saw fit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
They haven't really given you any indication on that deal? No.
We don't present a deal and there's no reason to give an indication for something we haven't presented.
The final questions will come from the line of Jack Aydin with Keybanc.
Research Division</strong> All my questions were answered save your time.
Jack you've got to ask 1.
Research Division</strong> Well if you want me to ask you it's basically I'm worried about the inventory.
How are you going to address it? Because if you're running 6 rigs in 2014 you're going to run through that inventory and I know you've got the cash and everything I want to see a little -- to get a little more color how you're going to add to that inventory.
Jack have we ever not had something to do with -- we've known you for -- you're 27 years old now are you Jack? Research Division</strong> 18 years old.
Yes okay.
Don't worry about our lack of inventory if that's what you perceive us having.
We would never have a problem with finding a place to spend money and making money.
So we addressed that early on.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I will turn the call back to Jay Allison for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Again I would like -- this is a long conference call.
It's like 1.5 hours or so which is unusual.
As always and we know most of you we try to put in a good days work to create the value on a per share basis.
I think the divestiture in the Permian is a win-win for Rosetta and for us.
I think they're going to do wonderful there and I think we're going to do wonderful with accelerating the Eagle Ford.
But we do guard our money carefully because it's not ours it's yours.
And we're trying to create a valuable stock.
So we thank you for staying with the conference call for 1.5 hours and believing in us.
That's it Stephanie.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Comstock Resources Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shaquanna and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Jay Allison CEO of Comstock Resources.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Shaquanna and thanks for everyone that's participating in the conference call.
Before we go over the 30 slides I'd like to kind of make an introduction.
I know if you go back and you've been a longtime stakeholder of the company in 2010 Comstock produced very little oil.
We were a pure natural gas company with the Haynesville being our marquee asset.
Today that is quite different.
Yes we still own 130 000-plus net acres in the Haynesville/Bossier which is really inventories until gas prices improve.
But today we report the final results of the Permian acreage play which we entered and exited really within a year and how that event was a springboard for accelerating the other oil play that we're in which is the Eagle Ford that we entered into beginning of 2010.
It's a rare occasion on a quarterly conference call that a company with an $816 million market cap which is Comstock can report on a quarterly call that it recognized a $231 million gain or $3.21 per share on the sale of an asset that it owned only for a year.
But Comstock can report that news today.
That single event allowed Comstock to do several things: One reduce net debt-to-capital by almost 60% to 33%; two provided Comstock with $764 million in liquidity; three it accelerated the Eagle Ford drilling program from a 42 gross well program which is what we had before the sale of the Permian to a 72 gross well Eagle Ford program.
We added almost 30 gross wells as a result of the Permian sale.
And finally it allows our acquisitions group to focus again on the Eagle Ford and other oily plays in order to continue to create great wealth for the stakeholder as it did with the sale of the Permian.
So with that welcome to Comstock Resources' Second Quarter 2013 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view the slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled Second Quarter 2013 Results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock.
With me this morning are Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2013 second quarter operating and financial results.
Slide 2.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentations and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Our 2013 second quarter highlights.
Slide 3 summarizes our second quarter results.
The most significant item in the quarter is the recognition of a gain of $231 million or $3.21 per share from the sale of our West Texas properties which was completed on May 14 2013.
Excluding the sale our second quarter operating results were defined by strong growth in our oil production and improved natural gas prices offset in part by declining natural gas production.
Our oil and gas sales including gains from our hedging program increased to $111 million in the second quarter.
Our total EBITDAX was $89 million and our total cash flow from operations was $67 million or $1.43 per share.
Our Eagle Ford drilling program is providing strong oil production growth this year.
Our oil production increased 26% from the first quarter and is up 21% over last year's second quarter.
Oil made up 19% of our total production in the second quarter and is expected to average 20% this year.
We expect our oil production this year to grow 28% to 34% over 2012.
In the first half of 2013 we drilled 25 successful Eagle Ford wells and also completed 25 wells which had an average per well initial production rate of 796 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The 2013 completions have initial rates that are 23% higher than initial rates in 2012 while our drilling costs have decreased by 10%.
We added 3 operated drilling rigs in June to bring our total rigs drilling to 6 and plan to drill 47 more wells in the last half of this year.
We have a very strong balance sheet after the West Texas divestiture.
We have $764 million in liquidity and our net debt decreased from 59% to 33% of our total capitalization.
Our West Texas divestiture which is Slide 4.
Please refer to Slide 4 in our presentation which summarize the sale of our West Texas properties.
On May 14 we completed the sale of our West Texas operations with Rosetta Resources and received proceeds of $824 million including reimbursements for capital expenditures incurred since January 1.
We reflected our West Texas properties as discontinued operations in our financial statements.
Proved reserves related to these properties were 26.8 million barrels of oil equivalent and 1 700 BOE per day of our 2012 production.
We realized a gain of $231 million from the transaction which represents an outstanding return for our stockholders for the 1 year that we owned these properties.
Despite the substantial gain from the sale we estimate the current tax liability for this year will only be around $1 million.
I will now turn it over to Roland to review our second quarter results in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
Slide 5 shows our oil production from continuing operations by region on a daily basis for the last 2 years and the first 2 quarters of this year.
And this slide is a little different than the past because it's only reflecting continuing operations and no longer reflects our discontinued West Texas operations.
And our oil production this quarter increased to 6 000 barrels per day and was up 1 200 barrels per day or 26% over the first quarter of this year.
Oil production this quarter was also 20% higher than the second quarter of 2012.
Our Eagle Ford properties in South Texas averaged 5 800 barrels per day as compared to 4 500 barrels per day in the first quarter.
With increased drilling in the second half of this year we expect our oil production from continuing operations to grow at approximately 2.3 million to 2.4 million barrels in 2013 which is an increase of 28% to 34% over 2012.
Slide 6 shows our natural gas production for continued operations also on a daily basis.
Our natural gas production declined by 10% to 156 million cubic feet per day as compared to the 174 million per day we had in the first quarter.
Production from our Haynesville and Bossier wells which is shown in dark blue on this slide declined to 108 million per day this quarter.
Our remaining gas production only declined slightly as compared to the first quarter.
Production from our Cotton Valley wells shown in green averaged 24 million per day; and our South Texas gas production shown in light blue was 20 million per day.
Other gas productions shown in purple was 4 million per day.
We expect our natural gas production relating to our continuing operations to decline further this year to approximately 56 to 60 Bcf which is a decrease of 27% to 32% from 2012.
Slide 7 shows our realized oil prices relating to our continuing operations for the second quarter.
Oil price realizations in South Texas continued to be strong in the second quarter of 2013 as we realized $100.06 per barrel down slightly from the $101.79 per barrel we realized in the second quarter of 2012.
With the Gulf Coast premium we received in the second quarter our realized price averaged 107% of the average benchmark NYMEX WTI price.
Recently the premium Gulf Coast crude to WTI has declined substantially with recent high WTI prices.
Currently we're receiving about $2 less than the WTI price in South Texas.
80% of our oil production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX WTI price of $98.69.
After our hedging program our realized price improved to $105.30 per barrel 2% lower than the after-hedging oil price we averaged in the second quarter of 2012 of $107.71 per barrel.
Slide 8 shows our realized prices for the first 6 months of 2013 relating to the continuing operations.
We realized $102.60 per barrel in the first 6 months of 2013 down slightly from the $103.44 per barrel we realized in the first half of 2012.
This realized price was 109% of the average WTI price for this period.
85% of our production was hedged in the first 6 months of 2013 at a NYMEX WTI price of $98.69.
So after our hedging program our realized price improved to $107.89 per barrel 3% higher than our after oil -- after-hedging oil price we averaged in the first 6 months of 2012 of $104.97.
Slide 9 recaps our hedge position.
We have an attractive oil hedge position which protects the 2013 drilling program.
We have 5 556 barrels per day hedged in the third quarter at $98.72 and about 6 000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter hedged at $98.67.
We plan to hedge about 60% to 70% of our anticipated 2014 oil production.
Slide 10 shows our average gas price which improved by 86% in the second quarter to $3.71 per Mcf as compared to $2 in the second quarter of 2012.
Our realized gas price was 91% of average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
Our average gas price improved by 48% in the first 6 months of 2013 to $3.42 per Mcf as compared to $2.31 in the first 6 months of 2012.
Our realized gas price was 92% of the average NYMEX WTI gas price for the first half of 2013.
On Slide 11 we cover oil and gas sales including hedging.
Our decline in natural gas production was offset by growth in our oil production and improved natural gas price into the second quarter.
Sales relating to our continuing operations increased by 19% to $111 million in the second quarter as compared to $93 million in 2012 second quarter.
Oil production made up 52% of total sales as compared to 53% in the second quarter last year.
Sales relating to our continuing operations increased by 6% to $208 million in the first 6 months of this year as compared to $195 million in 2012's first 6 months.
Oil production made up 51% of total sales as compared to 48% in the first half of last year.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX increased by 21% to $89 million from $73 million in 2012 second quarter as shown on Slide 12.
$5 million of our EBITDAX in the second quarter was related to the discontinued West Texas operations with $84 million attributable to our continuing operations.
Our EBITDAX increased by 12% to $170 million from $152 million in 2012's first 6 months.
$14 million of the EBITDAX in our first 6 months was related to discontinued West Texas operations with $156 million attributable to our continuing operations.
Slide 13 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $67 million a 12% increase from cash flow of $60 million in 2012 second quarter.
$1 million of our operating cash flow in the second quarter was related to discontinued West Texas operations with $66 million attributable to our continuing operations.
Our operating cash flow for the first 6 months was $129 million a 2% increase from cash flow of $127 million in 2012's first 6 months.
$7 million of our operating cash flow in the first 6 months was related to the discontinued West Texas operations with $122 million attributable to our continuing operations.
On Slide 14 we outlined our earnings reported for the quarter and for the first half of the year.
We reported net income of $130 million or $2.68 per share this quarter.
$151 million or $3.13 per share related to our discontinued West Texas operations.
Excluding discontinued operations we had a net loss of $21.5 million or $0.45 per share.
We did have several unusual items in the second quarter results affecting the continuing operations net loss including unrealized gains related to our oil hedges and then impairments on unevaluated leases and producing properties.
Excluding these items we would've reported a net loss related to continuing operations of $0.32 per share as compared to a recurring loss from continuing operations of $0.35 per share in 2012's second quarter.
For the first 6 months of 2013 net income was $103 million or $2.12 per share as compared to net income of $9 million or $0.18 per share in 2012's first 6 months.
Excluding the same unusual items plus the gain we had on selling our marketable securities in the first quarter we would've reported a net loss relating to continuing operations of $0.78 per share as compared to a recurring loss from continued operations of $0.62 per share for the same period in 2012.
On Slide 15 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter relating to our continuing operations.
Lifting cost on this chart are comprised of 3 components: production taxes transportation and other field level operating cost.
Our total lifting cost increased to $1.21 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2013 as compared to $0.90 in the second quarter of 2012 and $1.07 in the first quarter of 2013.
The increase is mainly due to lower natural gas volumes in the quarter and the fixed nature of much of the lifting cost.
In addition there were higher production taxes which are relating to the stronger natural gas prices in the quarter.
Production taxes in the quarter averaged $0.22 per Mcfe and our transportation cost averaged $0.25 per Mcfe.
Field operating cost in the quarter averaged $0.74 per Mcfe this quarter.
On Slide 16 we show our cash general and administrative expenses per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our G&amp;A cost increased to $0.33 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2013 as compared to $0.23 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2012.
G&amp;A expenses per Mcfe increased slightly over the first quarter rate of $0.31.
The increase is solely due to the lower production volumes on an Mcfe basis this quarter.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 17.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the second quarter averaged $4.87 per Mcfe as compared to our $3.54 rate in the second quarter of 2012 and the $4.60 that we averaged in the first quarter of this year.
The higher cost of our oil production and then the write-down of undeveloped natural gas reserves that happened last year arising out of the very low natural gas prices are causing the higher rates in 2013.
On Slide 18 we detail our capital expenditures relating to our continuing operations.
Capital expenditures relating to our discontinued operations after January 1 were reimbursed as part of the sales price.
We spent $133 million in the first 6 months of this year on our drilling program as compared to the $240 million we spent in 2012's first 6 months.
Capital expenditures for our South Texas region shown in red relate to our Eagle Ford drilling program which decreased to $120 million so far this year as compared to the $144 million we spent in the first 6 months of last year.
Lower well cost and then to promote that we're earning under the KKR joint venture account for the decrease.
With low natural gas prices our spending for our natural gas properties in North Louisiana declined only $13 million through the first 6 months of 2013 as compared to $96 million in the first half of 2012.
So in total our capital expenditures relating to our continuing operations of $133 million were funded primarily with the $122 million that we generated from operating cash flow from our continuing operations.
The funding gap of only about $11 million -- we only had a funding gap of around $11 million for the first 6 months of 2013.
Slide 19 breaks out our 2013 drilling budget related to our continuing operations.
We still expect to spend and budgeted $347 million on our drilling program with $312 million allocated to our Eagle Ford program and the remaining $32 million for any required drilling to hold our acreage in the Haynesville shale.
In addition to the amount we're spending for drilling we've budgeted to spend $12 million on acreage in 2013.
Slide 20 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the second quarter which reflects the closing of the West Texas sale.
At the end of the quarter we had $264 million of cash on hand and $883 million of total debt at June 30 bringing our net debt down to $619 million.
We repaid the amount outstanding in our bank credit facility in May which has a current borrowing base of $500 million all of which is available.
Our net debt is now 33% of our total capitalization as compared to 59% at the end of the first quarter.
As shown on Slide 21 on May 15 2013 our Board of Directors declared our first dividend in the company's history.
Stockholders received $0.125 dividend per share in the second quarter reflecting the substantial improvement to our balance sheet.
The dividend only cost the company about $6 million per quarter and we expect to continue this dividend in the future.
As we show on Slide 21 less than 1/3 of the 61 E&amp;P companies that we survey pay a dividend.
And of those 61 companies we have the second-highest dividend yield of 3.2% at June 30.
I'll now turn over to Mark to review our drilling results in the second quarter.
Thank you Roland and good morning.
On Slide 22 we cover our South Texas operations where all of the activity is in our oil-focused Eagle Ford shale play which has identified resource potential of 78 million barrels oil equivalent net to our interest.
In the first 6 months of 2013 we drilled 25 horizontal wells 15.2 net wells and had 6 wells or 3.7 net drilling as of June 30.
We have also completed 25 or 15.4 net wells horizontal Eagle Ford shale wells including 6 3.8 net wells that were drilled in 2012.
The 25 Eagle Ford shale wells that were completed this year had an average per-well initial production rate of 796 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Slides 23 and 24 show the results and locations of the 72 wells which are currently producing.
We completed 15 more Eagle Ford shale wells since our last update.
They are wells #15 through 72 on this list.
The 72 Eagle Ford shale wells that were completed had an average per-well initial production rate of 735 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
These wells are being produced under the company's restricted choke program and the initial tests were obtained with a 14/64 inch to 16/64 inch of choke.
The 30-day per-well production rate for these wells averaged 583 BOE per day and the 90-day per-well production rate averaged 484 BOE per day or 66% of the initial 24-hour rate.
The 2013 completions have initial rates that are 23% higher than the initial rates we obtained in 2012.
The 4 wells with the highest initial production rates were the Forrest Wheeler C #1 the Swenson B #1 the Swenson A #1 and the Swenson B #2.
These wells are all located in McMullen County and had initial production rates of 1 337; 1 352; 1 222; and 1 143 BOE per day respectively.
Slide 24 shows the location of the 72 producing Eagle Ford wells on our acreage.
A well location marked in red indicates it was drilled this year while the yellow locations were drilled between 2010 and 2012.
On Slide 25 we show how the costs of our Eagle Ford wells have come down considerably since we started drilling in August 2010.
In 2010 our first 2 wells averaged $11.4 million.
Costs have fallen to an average of $8.1 million per well in the first half of this year.
Faster drill times and lower well stimulation cost account for much of the savings.
We expect the average Eagle Ford well to cost $7.7 million in the second half of this year.
On the far right you can see the effects that KKR promote on Comstock's realized well cost.
The effective average well cost to Comstock on a 8/8ths basis improves to $6.7 million when you consider the promote.
On Slide 26 we show the progression of lateral length over time in the Eagle Ford.
Even though costs have come down considerably the lateral length has increased almost 50% since our drilling program began in 2010.
The average lateral length was 6 840 feet in 2013 as compared to only 4 595 feet in 2010.
This increase is a function of our increased confidence in executing these longer laterals without complications and our goal of maximizing our rate of return as well as efficient utilization of our acreage.
On Slide 27 we show an increase in proppant pumped since our program began in 2010.
Half of this increase is due to the increasing lateral length if you keep the pounds per foot the same.
We pumped 8.9 million pounds of proppant this year per well as compared to 4.4 million pounds per well in 2010.
And even considering lateral length we have increased the amount of proppant per lateral foot by 35% since we started in 2010.
Slide 28 shows the location of the 72 Eagle Ford wells that we have planned for 2013.
We are currently operating 6 drilling rigs and plan to maintain that number through the end of the year.
You can see the high concentration of wells planned for McMullen County where we have achieved the best results so far.
Slide 29 shows the net Eagle Ford wells being put on production per month so far in 2013 and what is projected for the rest of the year based on [indiscernible] rig program.
The monthly variation is due to multi-well pad drilling and subsequent multi-well stimulation operations which creates lumpiness in our Eagle Ford production curve in 2013.
Production in the first quarter was affected by the low number of completions in that quarter.
Third and fourth quarter Eagle Ford production will benefit from increased number of completions due to doubling the rig count.
The large increase in completions in December is due to 4 4 well pads being drilled and then completed simultaneously.
This activity will provide substantial momentum into the first quarter of 2014.
I'll now turn it back over to Jay.
Thanks Mark and again thanks Roland.
If everyone would look on Slide 30 it's the 2013 outlook.
On Slide 30 I'll summarize our outlook for the rest of the year.
Even though natural gas prices are improving we will remain focused on increasing our oil production with our Eagle Ford shale drilling program which provides high returns on our investment.
We will not start drilling natural gas wells until we can have a high return on those projects.
We expect the strong growth on our oil production will more than offset the natural gas production declines we are facing to allow us to have high revenues and cash flow and be a much more profitable company in 2013 and 2014.
We expect oil to comprise 20% of 2013's production even after the sale of our Permian Basin properties and will grow to 40% by the end of next year.
93% of the net wells we will drill in 2013 will be oil wells and 90% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
Post the West Texas sale we have ramped up our high-return Eagle Ford program and we'll drill 72 wells by the end of the year.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
We now have very strong balance sheet after the West Texas divestiture and we have $764 million in liquidity and our net debt has improved to 33% of total capitalization from 59% at the end of the first quarter.
For the rest of the call we'll take questions only from the research analysts who follow the stock.
So we'll now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Corales representing Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions mainly on the Eagle Ford.
Good job with the longer laterals and more profit with lower cost.
Is that mostly pad drilling? Can you maybe comment on what the main driver is there? Brian it's a combination of pad drilling getting our days down.
We did become more efficient in drilling these wells and also the better contract that we received this year for frac services.
Frac costs have come down some of the ancillary costs have come down coil tubing other things like that.
So it's a combination but the 2 big ones are drill times and our stimulation cost.
Research Division</strong> And Mark how many wells can 1 rig drill a year? Depending on whether it's pad drilling or not but about 14 or 15 a year on average.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then kind of looking at your inventory in the Eagle Ford what are you all estimating now the kind of number of wells per section or spacing? Whatever you want to talk towards.
We're averaging 65 to 80 acres per well is kind of our average spacing.
A lot of it -- acreage is dependent on lateral length so it varies.
These long laterals use more acres but the well spacing between wells stays the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jay maybe this is for you.
Kind of a big picture as you go on for the next couple of years.
Can you add more acreage in the Eagle Ford? What is the pace of development? What kind of -- the next step once you kind of get towards developing the entire block that you'll have currently? Well again I think at the very beginning I mentioned that in 2010 we had just entered the Eagle Ford.
We got our 27 000 28 000 net acres at the same time with the Permian.
I mean we were 98% natural gas company as you well know because we've been talking for a long time.
And we did transition into 2 Tier 1 oil plays and we transitioned out of 1 with a tremendous profit.
When we were in both of those plays I mean we didn't have really the balance sheet to add acreage in the Eagle Ford.
I mean we would see acreage come and there's -- I think there's a lot of fringe acreage on the market.
We're not interested in that.
I mean we are now looking to add kind of core Eagle Ford acreage.
And as we drill a certain amount of wells in any given year I mean our corporate goal at a minimum is to replace that drilled acreage with new acreage that we've leased so we continue to add another year's worth of inventory at a minimum.
I mean I think the market will probably allow us to do that.
There's lease expiration issues there's mineral owners that are out there that with this with earlier we couldn't do anything with.
I think today that's one of the reasons I kind of opened it up to say the launching pad for us is to clean up our balance sheet and then really to dig down into Eagle Ford and add to that position and you don't have to add a lot of acreage to replace a year's worth of drilling.
I mean you add 6 000 7 000 acres that's important and you've replaced a year's worth of drilling.
And I think if we continue to do that at a minimum for several years and gas prices do come back in the $4.50 range take a number and we've got a deep inventory of drilling in Tier 1 Haynesville.
So I think that's our plan.
Our plan was not to get a train wreck on our balance sheet.
Our plan was not to delude the shareholders by some type of strange financing or equity.
Our plan was to inventory the Haynesville and Bossier at the same time unlock the bag in the Eagle Ford which we were not able to do when we owned the Permian asset.
You noticed that we've gone from 3 rigs to 6 rigs.
And we did that instantly.
We really accelerated that program probably 6 weeks earlier than we had predicted because of rig availability.
And then I think you see our lumpiness which is the next-to-the-last chart.
It kind of goes away starting in 2014 even with pad-side drilling.
I think you asked Mark a good question about the low cost.
And that is the frac-ing cost have come down materially but it's pad-side drilling.
But if you only have 1 or 2 rigs out there you can't create real wealth for the stockholders in that play because you can't bring in these economies of scale and reduce those costs.
So I mean you've seen us year after year after year whether it's the sale of our Gulf properties to Stone in '08 or whether it's entering the Eagle Ford which we're obviously correct on our acreage position or the entrance in the Permian which we were correct on because Rosetta paid for that.
I mean we have never ever had an issue of creating wealth by adding to acreage or adding to a new play.
And we don't see that as a problem right now with the company.
I think that's the single loudest cry that we hear from the public is well what are you going to do after year 3 or so? Well if they had been screaming like that in 2010 I mean look what happens in 2010 '11 and '12.
And what we've done to create wealth on a per share basis.
That's why I mean today to report that you have $231 million of profits in a year and $1 million of taxes it's pretty phenomenal.
And I felt like we had cornered our acquisitions in new development departments so that we really couldn't continue to add that wealth.
I mean we were struggling with the development or our crack [ph] into the Permian and I don't think that was good for us.
So I hope that in a way answers your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver representing Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Yes.
First on the well cost.
You're guiding to $7.7 million wells in the back half of this year versus $8.1 million for the first half.
Where are you currently on well cost? I mean have you already gotten close to that $7.7 million or where does that stand? Yes Marshall this is Mark.
I believe we are basically at that number now.
And it's just that at the beginning of the year we still had some of those carryover costs with the higher stimulations in the first part of the year.
So I think we're really at that number and we should carry that through the year.
Okay.
On the current production do you have a current production rate you could give us? You had quite a number of completions in July and just wanted to see where that current production stands.
No Marshall.
I don't have a current production number in front of me.
Okay.
Do you still think at least 9 000 barrels a day towards the end of the year is feasible or would that be even higher now that you've got such a slug of December completions? What are your current thoughts on an exit rate? I think that's pretty close to what our exit rate is projected to be.
The December completions come on during the month and late in the month.
So I don't know if they are going to have much impact on December production.
They all have a little bit of an impact but probably more impact on January production than on December production.
Yes.
Marshall I think with that large number of completions in December yes the exit rate could be unusually high or impacted by that group depending on the exact day they come on.
But for the quarter in I think our overall guidance we feel like we are a little ahead of schedule and have an upward bias to our range right now on oil production.
But the actual exit rate will be a real function of that -- those 4 4 well pads.
They all come on before December 31 and we can probably have them at a higher exit rate than 9 000 barrels a day.
But they all come on January 1.
And I think again what the divestiture of the Permian has allowed us to do by third fourth quarter we'll have 2 frac-ing crews working not just 1.
Periodically we'll have 2.
And I think 2014 I mean again kind of a buggy out there is 14 000 barrels a day is an exit rate 2014.
I think if we keep with this program that's very achievable.
Now it goes back to the question asked earlier.
I mean we're so fluid here you can see in the Haynesville/Bossier we spent $13 million $14 million this year and that's kind of all we have to spend in 2013.
Probably the same will hold true in 2014.
We don't have to spend a lot of money in the Haynesville/Bossier to inventory this 6 Tcfe of kind of upside we think we have for resource.
See it's the same thing in the Eagle Ford.
I mean maybe we have to drill several wells in 2014 and in Eagle Ford which are obligation wells but we can control that whole program based upon where commodity prices are.
I think that goes back to slide the relevant rate [ph] too.
Our goal in 2014 is to add 60% to 70% of our oil production.
So we'll be putting in this program in Eagle Ford in 2014 kind of at the end of the year.
But if we want to have material growth in oil I think we can.
You know the core area we're in you know the cost you know the balance sheet.
I mean our CapEx almost equals our operating cash flow.
So those things are good and now you have to go well are you adding more acreage? And the answer is I think we'll be able to do that in the Eagle Ford.
Well time will tell but that's where we are.
Your next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon representing Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Mark I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about Atascosa County the result from this NWR well and whether -- I know the location count doesn't include anything really for that part of Atascosa.
Have your thoughts changed at all there? Ray we're still evaluating that.
Well it just came on production not long ago and we're still interested to see how it performs.
It's a long lateral so we don't know how that's going to affect the decline curve on that well.
So [Audio Gap] So I guess jury's still out on that acreage.
Most of that acreage up there we have said over and over that we've discounted that really we don't think it has much value and we're still kind of on the fence on that right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And I guess how about in terms of kind of apples-to-apples comparisons in the second quarter versus the first quarter? I guess what it seemed to me was happening was you were drilling in areas that you knew would probably not be equate as prolific within McMullen yet it seemed like the rates were a little higher than the other wells you drilled in those areas.
I guess -- I'm just trying to get a handle on what -- I know some parts of McMullen are not as prolific.
And I guess what are you seeing with the new artificial lift and new completion techniques kind of in one area versus another? Right.
Generally speaking as you go from north to south on our acreage in McMullen County the IP rates go down then they go up.
So on the northern end you're looking at lower IP rates and they improve when you get down to the Gloria Wheeler the Swenson the Forrest Wheeler acreage.
The EURs don't change nearly as drastically as the IP rates so that the wells to the north they're a little lower reservoir pressure.
They tend to be flatter.
They have a lower decline rate first year decline rate than the wells to the south.
And so the performance on -- is probably not quite as good on a rate of return basis but not too dissimilar.
So we've really been very pleased with almost all of our acreage or I guess all of our acreage in McMullen County.
And then the acreage account flows over into La Salle as well.
So I don't know if that answers your question but that's kind of my impression.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No That's a good answer.
And I guess just to make sure so the map it shows your '13 activity.
Well it looks like you're going to have one more Atascosa well this year is that right or...
We have a well an obligation well that we have to spud up there in late 2013.
So we'll evaluate the NWR too and determine whether we want to drill that well or not.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills representing Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions just a follow-on I think to Ray's previous question.
If you look at the 25 wells you drilled year-to-date and the 47 remaining wells you have any kind of -- can you provide any kind of sense as to where your 47 wells are located? Are they going to -- are they more concentrated towards the southern part the Gloria Wheeler Swenson area of McMullen County? Or are they spread across most of your box that you show on Slide 24 in McMullen County? Ron this is Mark.
I haven't broken it down exactly but if I were to guess it's probably 60-40 on the -- for the staff to the north as far as remaining wells in McMullen County.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe this is one for you Jay.
Just your relationship with KKR from -- not just a drilling carry standpoint on this acreage but can you talk about a little bit how that relationship has progressed? What their appetite is in terms of potentially expanding acreage in the play and/or private equity firms usually have a number of portfolio companies.
Is that relationship also -- can it potentially benefit you in the sense that if they have any portfolio of companies that have attractive acreage positions? I think if this were a classroom we'd probably get like an A plus for relationship.
And the reason is I mean they come in and we have de-risked the Eagle Ford for the most part and they've been in and out I think of 6 different deals in the Eagle Ford so they're very knowledgeable about the play.
They come in in our acreage and they can't cherry pick so they're in all of it more or less.
And all of a sudden our costs come down.
I mean these were $9 million $10 million $11 million wells over years ago as you've seen.
And now they're $7.7 million.
And all of a sudden production goes up 200 300 barrels or more per day as an IP rate.
So if you're KKR and all of a sudden costs come down and production goes up a lot and now all of a sudden we go from 3 rigs to 6 rigs and you're wanting to aggressively develop Eagle Ford when oil is $100-plus man we're like the -- one of their best investments period.
I mean I would -- and they would I think from our discussions I mean if we can duplicate this in -- and add under Eagle Ford acreage I think they would expect a phone call from us to be their partner.
So I have nothing but excellent news from our relationship with KKR period.
And again this time last year we didn't have that.
I think it does give us a little more strength.
We didn't have it last year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then Mark from a well-design standpoint a completion-design standpoint whether it be lateral length or proppants you never stop learning.
But do you think you're pretty well honed in on the best way to complete these wells? And are there any major variances in terms of how you complete them the northern part versus the southern part? As far as geographically Ron no.
We're doing pretty much the same thing in both areas.
We did change the fluid design a little bit in the north area.
We tried to pump less fluid just because it's lower pressure and it's hard to get the fluid back out.
So I think we do tend to limit the fluid used in the north area.
We have been testing some different things in terms of pounds per lateral foot and cluster spacing and we really just kind of going through another round of that and we're waiting on -- obviously waiting on results now.
We need timed to see how that impacted performance.
But I think generally we've honed in on the design we like and we're going forward with that generally.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly representing Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jay in regards to the leasing efforts can you talk about what areas you're targeting specifically? And then what acreage costs look like? Really I'm trying to estimate what the total acreage spend will be if you're successful in picking up the 6 000 to 7 000 acres in a year.
I really can't tell you where we're trying to lease other than if you look at a traditional geological map where the kind of the core of the Eagle Ford areas -- I mean I think what you need to know is that we're not looking for some pricey acquisition.
We're not looking for some pricey acreage.
I mean we're looking for some bolt-on acreage in and around our core and/or all the way to the north.
We've as you know we've been in "South Texas" for probably 15 years.
The Eagle Ford was a new play for us in 2010 but we've got a lot of good wells spread in the whole part of the country and our geologists have been very good at kind of locating the right core acreage that we need.
We got -- and I think we feel internally Mike that we've got a really good chance of delivering on our goal.
And our goal again is however many acres that we would drill up in a given year we want to add that many more acres as a minimum for inventory.
We don't want a depleted inventory year after year after year.
We want to keep the same inventory that we have now and/or add to that if we can.
That's our corporate goal and I think we'll be able to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you be able to -- is there an opportunity to add let's call it 2 000-acre blocks that are bolt onto your core McMullen acreage at roughly 5 000 to 6 000 an acre? Does that sound reasonable? Mike if you have some of that you ought to shoot us an e-mail and we'll talk about that.
LLC Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] [indiscernible] fringe acreage.
Because we went in 2010 and paid -- I think we had $4 000 in the whole program.
And then -- I mean you have seen some fringe acreage deals completed we think.
But we're not interested in that either.
In other words we're not interested in having a lot of acreage just to tell you we have a lot of acreage.
I mean if we had acreage then it should be all drillable acreage and you should divide it by 65 or 80 acres and say we've added this many new locations.
That's what we're looking for.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in regards to your guidance and exit rate goals correct me if I'm wrong here but it sounds like the confidence is there that you're more toward the higher end of this year's oil production range barring anything extraordinary.
I'm really interested in the factors that might cause you to come in above or below that 2014 exit rate goal of the 14 000 a day on the oil side.
If you could talk to that a little bit more I'd appreciate it.
Well I take one then I'll turn it over to Mark.
And we have to put a CapEx program together for 2014 which is again a 6-rig program whatever in order to hit that 14 000 net barrels production in 2014.
We've not advertised that that's what we're going to do.
We said that with oil prices where they are and gas prices where they are we're going to stay the course right now.
But we do have flexibility to change that.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Yes Mike it's Mark.
I think that's basically it.
We don't have an approved budget yet to -- we've done projections and what-ifs.
We don't have an approved budget for '14 that goes that far that makes that exit rate.
I think we can make that number or come very close to it or be a little above it somewhere in that vicinity if we run the 6 rigs through next year.
I feel comfortable with that.
We've got the inventory to do it.
We built a what-if program that shows us that.
And I think timing of the completions can affect that a little bit if we drilled a bunch of 4-well pad wells all in a row and we ended up pushing that off until late December next year or January just like we're doing this year then it could affect your exit rate slightly.
But that really is the only thing that I would say other than going a different direction if gas prices improve or we get into another play that requires us to use some of our cash flow for that play rather than this one then that would affect those numbers.
Right.
There's nothing within the Eagle Ford kind of boundary that would cause us not to hit those numbers in our opinion.
I mean the acreage is there the rigs are there the frac crews are there.
It would just be if we change that business plan.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman representing Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the flexibility with the budget next year.
Can you just kind of give me in rough idea kind of when the various rigs would be scheduled to roll off the contracts? John this is Mark.
We have -- most of our rigs are under 6-month contracts so they roll off every -- we have rigs rolling off every couple of months.
We have 2 rigs that are long-term contracts that are 2015 expirations.
But the other 4 are all short-term rigs and so we have a lot of flexibility on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Mark you've spoken pretty consistently in the past about your -- you feel like the 500-foot spacing pattern is pretty well established.
And so then the really only consideration is how long the lateral length is.
I'm curious -- I mean obviously your lateral lengths have been going up here this year.
What's the longest lateral that you all have tried? And when do you think we'll have a better idea on whether the let's say a longer lateral call it like a 9 000-foot or a 90-acre spacing is appropriate or maybe more of what you're doing closer to 78 or 80 acres is appropriate? Joan you're correct on the 500-foot.
We've been consistent about that and we're staying with that program of keeping the wells about 500 feet apart.
Give or take our acreage.
Sometimes if your acreage is shaped a certain way maybe end up 470 feet or 530 feet apart something like that.
As far as longest well I think that NWR #2 in Atascosa County is our longest completion to date.
It's about 10 200 feet.
We've had several more kind of very close to that around 10 000 or it hits a little under.
And really it depends -- sorry about that it's John not Joan.
I'm indiscernible].
So really we're trying to utilize our acreage.
And so we may be drilling one unit up that are all 6 000-footers because that's the way it spaces out because we don't think we can drill 12 000-footers or the unit is just that long.
In another place we're drilling 9 000 or 9 500 footer because of the shape of the acreage.
So we're trying to use every acre effectively and that really is what drives lateral length as much as anything.
We know that we need at least 4 000 feet in the south and probably 5 000 or 5 500 feet in the north to be economic to make our numbers.
So anything above that is just utilizing acreage efficiently.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit representing BMO Capital Markets.
If I could maybe ask a more theoretical question here.
Do you look at the Eagle Ford and maybe oil assets in general as you bridge to a higher natural gas price environment where returns at the field level could be better and operations may be more scalable? And in answering that question can you speak to the natural gas price the Haynesville and Bossier are competitive on returns with your McMullen County Eagle Ford? We have -- I think Dan if you want -- let me tell you what we're trying to do.
We're trying to create wealth on a per share basis.
And about 45 minutes ago we told you for this quarter each shareholder got $3.21 per share of a gain at the $231 million profits we made in a year.
So if you take the denominator as what can you do to create wealth on a per share basis we just created $3.21 per share.
And in 2010 we are a 98% natural gas company.
Second of all I'm not going to rupture ourself with a balance sheet that's stretched all over to investment banking heaven.
We're not going to do that.
We're not going to put ourself off the ledge.
So I think what we had to do is we had to come in and find some oil plays.
We found 2 major oil plays obviously.
One we got out of; and the second one we kept.
And we kept it because I think you're exactly right.
I think not many companies our size have been able to bridge themselves with oil right now to take control with an unbelievable partner like KKR.
With years of drilling that's pretty predictable as some of the questions had been asked about predictability.
So now you get to the value of Haynesville.
We have 1 200 1 300 1 400 1 600 locations or whatever.
When you get somewhere in the $4.55 gas price depends upon what these wells might cost.
And we'd looked at theoretically do you drill section section-and-a-half wells in the core area of Haynesville? What kind of return would we get? And I think when you get in the $4.30 price to $4.50 price and it's not just a flash in the pan a day price but it's a 12-month stripped out price then I think that some of the prospects that we have in the core not all of that 130 000-plus net acres but the core acreage in the Haynesville I think some of that would be competitive in the Eagle Ford.
So we don't advertise.
Again we make a bold statement that where gas prices are we're not accelerating our drilling program.
But we just believe in the years to come that with demand increasing and the rig count kind of down and production pretty flat overall for natural gas on a daily basis that the commodity will swing around and be a $4.55 commodity maybe more.
You can't run the company based upon that program in 2 years but you can certainly run the company based upon the inventory-ing the golden egg for the future.
And I think that's what we've done.
We thought [indiscernible] a little stronger than they are today but we're certainly pleased where prices are today versus the $1.90 a year ago.
So I think if you're talking just theoretical that's -- and I think we've always communicated that to you and everybody else about what our corporate plan is.
Well I appreciate that answer Jay.
And on the subject of shareholder value how do you view acquisitions? Or how do acquisitions compare to buying back stock in terms of creating wealth for shareholders? Well I don't think you spend money buying back shares.
If it causes you to give up a good acquisition and/or if it causes you not to add meaningful core acreage in Eagle Ford I think then you shouldn't be buying your shares back.
But I think with the -- well again our credit line we had a borrowing base of $570 million when we owned the Permian.
I mean after we sold the Permian our borrowing base was reduced to $500 million.
We only lost $70 million in our whole borrowing base and that was an $824 million event.
So I think we became much stronger.
We needed to become much stronger.
So it's unusual again.
You've got a company -- I mean you look today you look on the little ticker we're probably $800 million in market cap.
We have $760-some-odd million of liquidity.
And we're gas-rich and we're oil -- now starting to be oil-rich.
Because by the end of 2014 we think 40% of our production will be from oil.
So I think what we try to communicate with the shareholders who own this company we're not -- we'll take risks but we'll not be reckless in anything we do.
We're inventorying the Haynesville/Bossier.
People call all the time why don't you put some rigs into drilling? And we don't need to.
We've demonstrated we don't need to.
At the same time and again in 2010 and '11 and '12 we didn't have hardly any oil.
We've been in and out of material oil.
And it's almost laughable within our organization to think that we can't add acreage between now and year end or now and the end of 2014 in the core area being the Eagle Ford or another core area because Dan we always have we'll always have.
So that might be a fear of the public.
It's definitely not a fear of management or the board.
So that's how we look at all that.
Yes I understand.
And one last one for me if I may just for modeling purposes here.
Can you estimate for me or express for me the decline rate on natural gas production on the underlying natural gas production and how that might change over the next say 1 to 2 years? Again just for modeling purposes.
We said it may be as high as 32% this year in the Haynesville/Bossier.
Again we added a couple of wells which we had to drill.
And I think next year probably '15 '18 in the Haynesville/Bossier just probably -- For total company yes.
Yes total company.
That's probably the number that you use.
Your next question comes from the line of Cameron Horwitz representing U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Mark following up on what was asked earlier maybe I'll ask it a different way.
If you kind of -- if you take the geography out of the equation can you kind of quantify what performance improvement if any you're seeing? Maybe on a lateral foot basis as you've run these more intensive tracks or stimulations? I don't have that in front of me and we really kind of -- it's an ongoing process.
I don't know if we have enough data to give you a real definitive number yet.
We're still kind of evaluating what we get out of the longer laterals what we get out of the tighter cluster spacing the more pound per foot.
I really just don't have that number here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess with some of the improvements in the well cost at least what are you guys internally estimating from a rate of return perspective for the go forward for Eagle Ford inventory? Cameron this is Roland.
With wells that are obviously with the venture we think the rate of return to Comstock is approaching 50% for the investment -- for the drilling capital spend.
Obviously it's going to vary which part of the section you're in but it's very strong and -- for the overall program.
So we really can't match those returns in our other areas right now especially on the gas side.
That's where the capital is being focused.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just lastly Mark can you just remind us just looking at the map here on that Y-bar leasehold that you have there what the expectations for this acreage just given it looks like the only major block you haven't drilled a well on yet? There have been a lot of drilling around it and the performance of that has been very very similar to our acreage just to the East our Carlson and Hubbard acreage.
So we really expected it to perform like that.
It just that it had a lot more term on those leases they were a lot newer releases.
So we have a lot more term and we were able to put it into schedule a little bit later.
That will be a big focus in our 2014 program.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Sneeden representing Oppenheimer.
Maybe as a follow-up to one of the previous questions with the sale of the Permian you guys as you outlined Roland you have $264 million of cash in the balance sheet.
Could you maybe discuss what you might look to use that cash for over time? I know you talked about a potential refi of the 8 3/8% senior notes which become callable in October.
Or maybe could you just prioritize again kind of what you think you might want to use that cash for? Sure Sean.
The -- I think the top priority right now we plan to -- kind of depending on what the interest rate environment looks like and the overall liquidity market looks like at that time when we can actually issue the call but calling the bonds the 8 3/8% bonds which are callable on October 15 is kind of what we're right now considering -- something we would do now that's more -- I don't think that we really plan to refinance those at this time or issue new bonds because we like to kind of rebalance our debt between the lower cost bank debt and the bonds.
So that is top of our agenda.
Of course we have other -- we have an authorization for the stock buyback to the extent that we want to buy shares back also.
And then the other priority would obviously be any type of acreage opportunities that we feel real attractive.
Okay got you.
And then just kind of broadly speaking can you discuss about how you think about balancing paying and/or growing the dividend with liquidity and leverage.
Are there any particular targets you are looking to maintain? For instance are you planning to spend within cash flow or anything like that? That would be helpful.
Sure.
On the dividend payment the dividend is about $6 million a quarter.
So we view the level as a pretty good level for the company given today's environment where commodity prices are.
So we're not really targeting a particular yield at all.
The average yield for our space for the dividend payers is 1% so the 3% yield is more of a function of lower stock price right now than anything else.
But definitely the dividend is something that we do not want it to -- call this to spend less on the drilling program or get in the way of acreage acquisitions or increase the leverage to a point that's not optimal for the company.
And we feel like right now it fits in very well.
Our goal is for 2014 to have a capital program that's fully funded with operating cash flow.
And we think that that's kind of what the 6-rig program would appear to be based on commodity prices.
And as we put our hedges in place before we approve that capital budget we'll have more certainty to that.
So we think the dividend fits well with all those objectives.
So again we don't have a lot of shares outstanding so -- when people give a dividend.
It's not a very costly item to our cash flow compared to many other companies with a lot of shares outstanding.
Sure that makes sense.
And then just one last one for me.
But -- I mean I think you mentioned your target hedging on the oil side for next year but you didn't mention anything for gas.
Are you guys still playing to be largely unhedged just kind of given where we are before curve? Yes I think that we would look to add gas hedges when we look to drill gas again.
So I think that right now the forward curve doesn't support drilling for next year or this year as far as we're concerned.
So yes we wouldn't see to hedge that either.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif representing Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the -- with the Permian sale and the low tax impact of it is that going to change your 100% deferred tax rate for the foreseeable future for the next year or so? This is Roland.
Amir that's a -- it really has no impact.
What we had given the couple of years of low gas prices and a couple of years of high drilling -- a lot of dollars spent on drilling programs we had generated both NOLs and IDC that we didn't use that we're able to shield that very large gain that we made on the Permian sale.
We still have some of those attributes remaining.
But I mean really the deferral of most of the current taxes is really a function of our drilling expenditures and as long as we're primarily spending our cash flow for drilling.
We'll be able to defer most of the current taxes that continue to push those out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then for Eagle Ford can you just quantify how much acreage is in Atascosa relative to your total acreage? And when acreage explorations would start to come in terms of when you will have to either decide to let it go or drill it? Amir I don't have a count in front of me of that acreage that's still under primary term.
It's probably 2 000 or 3 000 acres that's still under primary term.
The acreage on the east side is all HBP the Lucas the DVR the Mesquite wells they held all that acreage.
So really it's pretty small acreage block that's remaining in terms of any decision making.
And that really goes out later this year and into -- probably into '14.
Actually we have an obligation well to drill I think in November or December.
That's a decision point.
So we'll decide then whether -- what we want to do with that acreage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the $12 million that you lay out for leasehold cost this year is that specifically for Haynesville? Or is that also in the Eagle Ford? Or is that also new acreage and new plays? That's an overall budget Amir for -- which includes capitalized interest.
So -- but I think we won't have a lot of capitalized interest for the second half of the year given that a lot of our unevaluated -- we sold a lot of our unevaluated acreage to Rosetta and then also the Eagle Ford is quickly becoming fairly evaluated.
So I think we only have like $5 million of that number.
So far the first 6 months of the year.
So it's really -- we'll really look at lease acquisition opportunities on a case-by-case basis versus setting that on a permanent number.
That would handle all of the more recurring things that you have such as free capitalized interest or just other kind of renewals that we had planned to do but wouldn't encompass a very large acreage purchase that we haven't specifically identified.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well Roland are those renewals in Eagle Ford or is it mostly just in the Haynesville? Before you go over the [indiscernible]...
I mean there's just 2 places where you might have a very inexpensive renewal.
But in total it's a pretty small dollar amount so they're not very material on either play.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a final question.
I know you guys mentioned that you feel the market's overly concerned about the inventory and you guys have always been able to create opportunities.
What inventory level in terms of your 6-rig drilling program would you feel that you need to get something done? Is it once you get down to 1 year 1.5 years 2 years? We always like to have a 3-year program.
I mean that's kind of the comfort zone.
A couple of years we don't have a hiccup on 1 year it's a little taxing.
It puts a little more pressure on you.
But I think if we had a strong 3-year drilling program that would be really good.
You have a question from the line of Ron Mills representing Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> One last real quick 1.
I'm assuming Mark or Jay from a at least exploration standpoint not really through Comstock's but where are we in the life cycle of Eagle Ford leases in terms of industry primary term coming up on explorations? Is that one of the primary sources here of bolt-on opportunities? Or am I too early in that assumption? No Ron we believe that's part of it.
There's a lot of acreage that was picked up anywhere from 2007 to 2010 that is coming up.
Some of it has extension rights some of it doesn't.
We think companies are just going to struggle to getting to some of their smaller acreage blocks and some of that will come available.
Your next question comes from the line of Rehan Rashid representing FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Quick question guys on CapEx for the year.
So the 1.6 wells that -- in the Haynesville that were supposed to be drilled or operated by others is that going to get drilled by year end? And then I have a quick follow-up.
Yes Rehan this is Roland.
Right now we haven't had any outside operator proposals in the Haynesville and that I don't believe we have any in hand.
So it's a possibility that it doesn't get spent.
We did drill the 2 operated wells and then we completed those very very early July.
So it's a possibility we spend no more money in the Haynesville but there could be some proposals that we think are worthy to participate in come later.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then going back to the kind of acreage inventory kind of discussion.
So on the Eagle Ford should we think about any kind of particular exit level in terms of ads by year end soon thereafter? In terms of kind of what you've been working through? As far as acreage? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Our goal is to like Jay said to add 5 000 to 6 000 acres.
Now whether or not we accomplish that by year end or not is the question.
But I think we'll make progress towards that.
Research Division</strong> And presumably these are in-fill acreages right around where you operate? Right.
I think you were talking about the numbers -- the smaller acreage acquisitions they need to be right around where we operate in order to be useful to us.
If they're going to be pretty far out of our operating area but then an area we like in the Eagle Ford they're going to tend to have to be a little larger to make more sense and be more contiguous so you can get a lot of drilling locations on it.
Those type of purchases would be on the high -- would be more expensive typically.
The larger the acreage track in an area that's proven the more value it has.
And conversely the smaller the acreage track even in a good area may have less value just because it can't be used by as many operators.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I continue to hear from you guys the strict discipline around kind of what you will spend money on and kind of what parameters that will have to bring to the table right? And then that's something we should continue to expect toward the next several quarters let the market comes to you rather than chase anything? Absolutely.
Definitely.
I know we've -- a lot of feedback we've gotten back from other investors in the industry especially the private equity and the commercial banks et cetera is they feel like the -- that the industry in general has the opposite problem.
They have way too much inventory way too many things that need to be drilled and -- just on the whole.
And they feel like that those opportunities would be there.
So our -- we plan to be very disciplined.
We have a very good year.
If we just stick to what we own today and run the 6-rig program and oil prices are supportive of that we have a very very good year next year.
So we don't want to mess that up by jumping off on to another area that may not be able to produce the same results.
So we're going to be very disciplined in finding the right opportunities.
But we do see overall in the long run that we want to add more oil opportunities for the company.
We just exited a very large 1 that probably before that we would say we don't want to add anymore because we have so much on our plate.
But just months ago that changed.
So we're open to those kind of ideas but we're not -- we don't want to stress the balance sheet nor do we want to create a lot of obligations for things that have to get drilled immediately or generate lower returns than what we can make now in the Eagle Ford.
So we're very very disciplined but -- and patient.
But we think those opportunities will obviously come they always do.
And then we'll add as we get -- as we barge down the next 3 years we will definitely have additional oil opportunities to keep us more balanced.
We don't want to go back to 98% gas in the long run.
In the company we do want flexibility to respond to the different challenges the industry throws our way.
Research Division</strong> I apologize for this theoretical question but along the same line.
So like kind of essentially what you guys were saying that there are very few underutilized operating platforms in the public capital markets such as an E&amp;P company if a private equity wants to come to you and say "Hey let me back into your public platform these set of assets." What would you demand in return? And how will you kind of shape something like that? Again it's theoretical I understand.
But all addresses the same kind of basic concern and questions the marketplace? Well I think I've had -- we would obviously want to see the immediate value that makes that a worthwhile proposal to us not only just for whatever part of our capital it uses or takes but also what part of our time and efforts there that our operations group and other group would have to spend on it.
So I guess we would just have to evaluate that opportunity with specifics.
But we do think like I said earlier that there are in general there are a lot of inventory a lot of projects out there that need a lot more capital than the companies that have them have.
And so I think we're sitting in a good position with a real strong balance sheet.
We'll see how that all plays out.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jay Allison for closing remarks.
Again we are always thankful that you participated in the conference call and that you're either an analyst or stockholder are interested in the story and I think the questions that were asked were excellent questions.
And hopefully we've given you some clarity on what the business plan is and we've been accountable for our entrance and our exit to the Permian and what we're attempting to do in the Eagle Ford as well as in [indiscernible].
So thanks for your time.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Comstock Resources Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Lisa.
Before we start I've got about 6 or 7 bullet points that I want to make sure that those that are attending the conference if they leave early they get these bullet points pertaining to the quarter.
As you all know this is the first quarter that we've had -- where we've had the Permian divestiture behind us.
With the proceeds from the Permian sale we have retired $735 million of debt really in the last 6 months.
So the question is what do we do with that? And the bullet points are one because of that we've now been able to double our Eagle Ford rig count.
We went from 3 rings to 6 rigs as you know.
And that allows our Eagle Ford oil production to grow anywhere from 33% to 36% over that production of 2012.
The sale of the Permian also allowed us really to be 20% oil at the end of 2013 as far as production.
And we should be 40% at the end of 2014 as far as oil production.
It also allows Comstock to complete I think somewhere like 15 additional net wells in the Eagle Ford versus our initial projections at the beginning of this year.
Now we've added 3 more even in this quarter.
It has allowed us to repurchase some shares.
We repurchased 1.3% of our outstanding shares.
And I think the other thing that it does we will spend $120 million to enter into 2 new oil basins.
So the question is are we having some science experiment? And the answer is quite frankly no.
We're not looking to enter into a science experiment that will dilute to strong return currently being seen in the Eagle Ford but rather invest in 2 areas each of which we think have the potential to be another Eagle Ford.
And we throw that $120 million out so you'll know that we're not going to get in financial strait.
That's the amount of money that we're investing in the future in 2 new plays.
And you'll also note after the divestiture of the Permian our bank credit facility should increase to $1 billion with $625 million initial borrowing base and our year-end oil production should be greater than what we had projected as if we had kept the Permian.
So all those are great points that I didn't want anyone to miss if they left the conference call early.
So with that welcome to the Comstock Resources' third quarter 2013 financial and operating results conference call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you'll find a presentation entitled Third Quarter 2013 Results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock.
And with me this morning are Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2013 third quarter operating and financial results.
If you go to Slide 2 please refer to Slide 2 in our presentation and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Now Slide 3 our 2013 third quarter highlights summarizes our third quarter results.
Our third quarter operating results were defined by continuing strong growth in our oil production and the prudent natural gas prices offset in part by declining natural gas production.
Our oil and gas sales increased to $112 million in the third quarter.
Our total EBITDAX was $82 million and our total cash flow from operations was $63 million or $1.31 per share.
Our Eagle Ford drilling program is providing strong oil production growth this year.
Our oil production increased 14% from the second quarter and is up 30% over last year's third quarter.
Oil made up 22% of our total production in the third quarter alone.
We expect our oil production this year to grow 33% to 36% over 2012 as I stated earlier.
In the first 3 quarters of 2013 we drilled 47 successful Eagle Ford wells and also completed 42 wells which had an average oil initial production rate of 793 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our results in our Eagle Ford program have improved considerably since last year.
Our 2013 completions had 30-day initial rates that are 25% higher than the 30-day rates in 2012.
While at the same time our average well cost had decreased by 13% from 2012.
We have a very strong balance sheet off the West Texas divestiture which closed in the second quarter.
The divestiture allowed us to retire $735 million of debt this year including the October 15 redemption of our 2017 bonds.
At the end of the third quarter our net debt has improved from 59% to only 35% of our total capitalization.
I'll have Roland Burns report on the financial results for the quarter in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
Slide 4 shows our oil production related to our continuing operations by region and on a daily basis for the last 3 years by quarter.
Oil production this quarter increased to 6 900 barrels per day and was up 900 barrels per day or 14% over the second quarter of this year.
The oil production was also up 30% from the third quarter of 2012.
Our Eagle Ford properties in South Texas account for most of our oil production at 6 600 barrels per day.
We're looking for our oil production to average between 8 300 and 9 000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter.
The wide range that we're providing for guidance for this fourth quarter is due to the very large amount of completions that are planned for December so the exact timing of those will have a big impact of how we finish up the year.
Slide 5 shows our natural gas production from continuing operations on a daily basis.
Our natural gas production declined by 5% to 148 million cubic feet per day as compared to the 156 million per day we produced in the second quarter.
Production from our Haynesville and Bossier wells which is shown in dark blue on the chart declined by 5 million per day to 103 million per day this quarter.
Production from our Cotton Valley well shown in green averaged 20 million per day.
And our South Texas gas production shown in light blue was also 20 million per day.
Other gas production shown in purple increased to 5 million per day.
We expect our natural gas production to decline further in the fourth quarter to approximately 130 million to 140 million cubic feet per day.
Slide 6 shows our realized oil prices related to our continuing operations for the third quarter.
Oil price realizations in South Texas weakened in the third quarter as the NYMEX-WTI contract outperformed the LLS Gulf Coast market indexes.
We realized $104.83 per barrel for our oil production as compared to $99.34 per barrel that we realized in the third quarter of 2012.
With the Gulf Coast premiums failing to keep up with the WTI contract our realized price averaged 99% of the average benchmark NYMEX-WTI price.
79% of our oil production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX-WTI price of $98.72.
After considering losses from our hedging program our realized price declined to $99.20 per barrel or 7% lower than the after hedging oil price we averaged in the third quarter of 2012 of $106.10.
Slide 7 shows our realized oil prices for the first 9 months of this year also related to our continuing operations.
We realized $103.47 per barrel in the first 9 months of 2003 up 1% from the $101.99 per barrel we realized in the first 9 months of 2012.
Our realized price averaged 106% of the average WTI price for the period.
83% of our production was hedged in the first 3 quarters of this year at a NYMEX-WTI price of $98.69 per barrel.
After our hedging program our realized price improved to $104.49 per barrel 1% lower than our after hedging oil price we averaged in the first 9 months of 2012 of $105.37.
On Slide 8 we outlined our hedge position.
We have a very attractive oil hedge position which protects the 2013 and 2014 drilling program.
We have 6 000 barrels per day hedged for the fourth quarter at $98.67 per barrel and 5 500 barrels per day for all of 2014 hedged at $96.31 per barrel.
We plan to hedge about 60% to 70% of our 2014 production so we'll continue to add some additional oil hedges as this year progresses.
Slide 9 shows our average gas price which has improved by 37% in the third quarter to $3.33 per mcf as compared to $2.43 in the third quarter of 2012.
Our natural gas prices this quarter fell about $0.38 from the prices we realized in the second quarter of 2013.
Our average gas price improved by 44% in the first 9 months of 2013 to $3.39 per mcf as compared to the $2.35 we realized in the same period in 2012.
Our realized gas price is averaging 92% to 93% of the NYMEX-Henry Hub gas price so far in 2013.
On Slide 10 we cover our oil and gas sales including realized hedging gains or losses.
Our decline in natural gas production was offset by growth in our oil production and improved natural gas prices in the third quarter.
So sales relating to our continued operations increased by 8% to $108 million in the third quarter as compared to $100 million in 2012's third quarter.
Oil production made up 58% of our total sales as compared to 51% in the third quarter of last year.
Sales relating our continuing operations increased by 7% to $316 million in the first 9 months of this year as compared to $296 million in 2012's first 9 months.
Oil production made up 53% of our total sales as compared to 49% in 2012.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX decreased by 5% to $82 million from the $86 million that we had in 2012's third quarter as we show on Slide 11.
$12 million of our EBITDAX in the third quarter of 2012 was related to our discontinued West Texas operation and $74 million is attributable to our continuing operations so EBITDAX from continuing operations increased by 11% this quarter.
Our EBITDAX increased by 6% to $252 million in the first 9 months of this year from $238 million in 2012's first 9 months.
EBITDAX from continuing operations only in the first 9 months was $238 million in 2013 and $212 million in 2012 or an increase of 12%.
Slide 12 covers our operating cash flow.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $63 million a 10% decrease from total cash flow of $70 million in 2012's third quarter.
However cash flow attributable to our continuing operations this quarter was 5% higher than the $60 million that we had in 2012's third quarter.
Our operating cash flow in the first -- for the first 9 months was $192 million 2% less than cash flow of $197 million in 2012's first 9 months.
Continuing operation's cash flow of $185 million for the first 9 months of 2013 increased 6% over the same period in 2012.
On Slide 13 we outline our earnings.
We reported a net loss today of $24 million or $0.52 per share this quarter as compared to a net loss of $44 million from continuing operations or $0.95 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
We have several unusual items in the third quarter results including the unrealized losses related to our oil hedges impairments on our unevaluated leases and a loss on property sales which totaled $9 million.
Excluding these items we would've reported a net loss relating to continuing operations of $0.40 per share as compared to recurring net loss from continuing operations of $0.73 per share in 2012's third quarter.
For the first 9 months of 2013 net income was $79 million or $1.63 per share as compared to a net loss of $22 million or $0.47 per share in 2012's first 9 months.
Including that net income was a gain on the sale of our West Texas properties and their related results of $149 million or $3.08 per share.
We had a net loss of $70 million or $1.45 per share related to our continuing operations.
Excluding the same unusual items plus the gain we had in selling our marketable securities in the first quarter we would've reported a net loss relating to continuing operations of $1.14 per share as compared to the recurring loss from continuing operations of $1.35 per share for the same period in 2012.
On Slide 14 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter related just to our continuing operations.
Lifting cost in this chart are made up of production taxes transportation and other field level operating costs.
Our total lifting cost this quarter increased to $1.24 per Mcfe as compared to $0.96 per Mcfe in the third quarter of 2012 and $1.21 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2013.
This increase is mainly due to the lower natural gas volumes and the fixed nature of much of our lifting costs and higher production taxes related to the stronger gas prices.
Production taxes this quarter were $0.24 per Mcfe and transportation averaged $0.26 in the third quarter.
Field operating costs remained unchanged this quarter at $0.74 per Mcfe.
On Slide 15 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative costs increased to $0.29 per Mcfe this quarter as compared to the $0.21 per Mcfe we had in the third quarter of 2012 solely due to the lower production volumes we have in 2013.
G&amp;A expenses per Mcfe decreased from the second quarter rate of $0.33.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 16.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the third quarter averaged $4.93 per Mcfe as compared to the $3.99 rate we had in the third quarter of 2012 and the $4.87 we averaged in the second quarter of 2013.
The higher cost of the oil production and a write-down of undeveloped natural gas reserves last year arising out of the very low natural gas prices are causing the increases.
On Slide 17 we detail our capital expenditures related to our drilling operations.
Capital expenditures from our discontinued operations after January 1 were reimbursed to us as part of the sales price are excluded from this slide.
So far this year we spent $234 million on our drilling program as compared to $266 million that we spent in 2012's first 9 months.
Capital expenditures in South Texas which are shown in red on this chart relate to our Eagle Ford drilling program which increased to $215 million so far this year as compared to the $163 million we spent in last year's first 9 months.
With low natural gas prices our spending for our natural gas properties in North Louisiana declined to only $19 million so far this year as compared to the $103 million we spent in the same period in 2012.
On Slide 18 we have an updated estimate of our 2013 drilling program in our capital budget.
We are now expecting to spend about $345 million for our drilling activity this year and we've also increased the number of net Eagle Ford wells being drilled to 49.6 as compared to 46.9 net wells in our prior budget.
Offsetting the increase in the Eagle Ford we're estimating we'll spend less on our natural gas fees in the Haynesville Shale.
In addition to the drilling expenditures we have budgeted $140 million to spend on acreage acquisitions including the $120 million on the 2 new oil plays that Jay referred to earlier.
The remaining $20 million are costs that we spent on our Eagle Ford acreage or capitalized interest or other acreage costs.
Slide 19 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the third quarter.
We had $228 million of cash on hand and $884 million of total debt at September 30 bringing our net debt down to about $656 million.
Our net debt is now 35% of our total capitalization as compared to 59% at the end of the first quarter.
On October 15 we used most of our cash and borrowed $100 million under our bank credit facility to redeem our 8 3/8% bonds due in 2017.
We are currently completing a new $1 billion 5-year bank credit facility that will have an initial borrowing base of $625 million and we expect to close that in the next couple of weeks.
Starting in June we began paying a $0.125 dividend per quarter per share.
The dividend cost the company around $6 million a quarter.
As shown on Slide 20 only 1/3 of the 61 E&amp;P companies we survey pay a dividend.
And of those 61 companies we have the second highest dividend yield at September 30 of 3.1%.
In the third quarter we also had some activity in our share repurchase plan which we detail on Slide 21.
We repurchased 1.3% of our outstanding shares or 631 096 shares for $9.2 million at an average of $14.63 per share.
We still have over $90 million to authorize for share buybacks in the future.
I'll now turn it over to Mark to review our drilling results in the third quarter.
Thanks Roland.
On Slide 22 we cover our South Texas operations where all of our current activity is in our oil-focused Eagle Ford Shale play.
At the end of the third quarter we had 26 500 net acres reflecting the recent acquisition of 2 300 net acres and the exploration of a similar amount of acreage in Atascosa County.
We are working on other bolt-on acreage acquisitions in our area.
We estimate that we have 300 operated drilling locations with a total resource potential of 70 million barrels of oil equivalent net to our interest.
Slide 23 shows the location of the 89 producing wells we have drilled on our acreage.
In the first 3 quarters of 2013 we drilled 47 horizontal oil wells 31.6 net and had 11 wells or 8.3 net drilling at September 30 of this year.
We have also completed 42 or 26.4 net horizontal Eagle Ford Shale wells including 6 or 3.8 net wells drilled in 2012.
The 42 Eagle Ford Shale wells that were completed this year had an average per well initial production rate of 793 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This rate is 22% higher than the average IP from 2012.
Slide 24 shows the results of the 89 wells which are currently producing.
We completed 17 more Eagle Ford wells since our last update.
They are wells 73 through 89 on this list.
The 89 Eagle Ford shale wells that were completed had an average per well initial production rate of 745 BOE per day.
These wells are being produced under the company's restricted choke program and the initial tests were obtained with a 14/64 to 16/64 inch choke.
The 30-day per well production rate for these wells averaged 588 BOE per day and the 90-day per well rate averaged 492 BOE per day or 68% of the initial 24-hour rate.
The 2013 completions have initial rates that are 22% higher than the initial rates in 2012 and have 30-day rates that are 25% higher.
The 4 third-quarter wells with the highest initial rates were the Swenson C #4H Forrest Wheeler D #1H and the Swenson #7H and #8H which are all located in McMullen County.
These wells had initial production rates in excess of 1 000 BOE per day.
On Slide 25 we track the costs of our Eagle Ford wells which have decreased considerably since we started drilling in August 2010.
In 2010 our first 2 wells averaged $11.4 million.
Costs have been reduced to an average of $7.8 million per well in the first 9 months of this year.
Faster drill times and lower well stimulation costs account for much of the savings.
We expect to average Eagle Ford well to cost $7.6 million in the fourth quarter of this year.
On the far right you can see the effect of the KKR promote on Comstock's realized well costs.
The effective average well cost to Comstock on an 8H basis improves to $6.6 million with the joint venture promote.
On Slide 26 we show the progression of lateral length over time on our wells in the Eagle Ford.
Even though costs have come down considerably the lateral length has increased by 44% since our drilling program began.
The average lateral length was 6 625 feet in 2013 as compared to 4 595 feet in 2010.
This increase is a function of our increased confidence in executing longer laterals without complication and our goal of maximizing our rate of return as well as utilization of all of our acreage.
On Slide 27 we show the increase in proppant pumped since our program began in 2010.
Half of this increase is due to the increasing lateral length.
We pumped 8.7 million pounds of proppant this year per well as compared to 4.4 million pounds per well in 2010.
We have increased the amount of proppant per lateral foot by 35% since 2010.
Slide 28 shows the net Eagle Ford wells being put on production per month so far in 2013 and what is projected for the rest of the year based on running the 6 rigs that we have in the program.
The monthly variation is due to multi-well pad drilling and subsequent multi-well stimulation operations which creates lumpiness in our Eagle Ford production curve in 2013.
Our expected fourth quarter Eagle Ford production will benefit from the increased number of completions due to doubling the rig count this year.
The large increase in completions in December is due to 4 4-well pads being drilled and then completed simultaneously.
This activity will provide sustained momentum into the first quarter of 2014.
I will now turn it over to Jay.
If you continue to stay on Slide 28 the full impact of our 6-rig Eagle Ford drilling program really shows up in the fourth quarter of 2013 particularly in December.
We expect to complete more Eagle Ford wells in December of 2013 than all of the third quarter of 2013 again that's because you start seeing the full impact of our 6-rig Eagle Ford drilling program.
If you go to Slide 29 our 2013 outlook.
I'll summarize our outlook for the rest of the year.
With continued weak natural gas prices we have been focused on increasing our oil production with our Eagle Ford Shale drilling program which provides high returns on our investment.
We will not start drilling natural gas wells until we can have high returns on those projects.
We expect the strong growth in our oil production will more than offset the natural gas production declines we are facing allowing us to have higher revenues and cash flow and be a much more profitable company in 2014.
We expect oil to comprise 20% of 2013's production even after the sale of our Permian Basin properties and will grow to 40% by the end of next year.
96% of the net wells we'll drill in 2013 will be oil wells and 96% of our budget will be spent on oil projects.
We're expanding our inventory of oil drilling locations by completing bolt-on acreage acquisitions around our Eagle Ford properties and by acquiring acreage in emerging oil plays.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
We now have a very strong balance sheet after the West Texas divestiture.
We'll have over $0.5 billion in liquidity after the retirement of our 2017 bonds that we completed on October 15.
For the rest of the call we'll take questions only from research analysts who follow this talk.
So Lisa I'll turn it back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ron Mills of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Actually this is Don.
Jay in your new ventures are you still focused on the 4-state area that you outlined in our conference of Louisiana Mississippi Texas and Oklahoma? Yes.
And the reason we gave you those areas are one we -- Don I think that the 2 or 3 things we needed to make clear when we sold the Permian is one we've got a great wealth creation group.
And you say "Well where have they created great wealth?" It's Texas Louisiana Oklahoma and Mississippi.
Those are the states that we've been very good in and that's where our core people have been very good in.
So we're staying within those states.
We give you a budget.
We're not going to spend $300 million $400 million $500 million chasing something.
We're going to spend $120 million.
And we've found the 2 areas that we really like we're attempting to lease right now.
And if anyone on the call ask if we're in a particular play we won't comment on it because we've not publicized that we're in any new play other than the Eagle Ford.
And then we have inventory at the Haynesville gas for future drilling when gas prices are anywhere from $4.30 to $4.50 or above.
But we have located 2 basins that we really like.
It's totally unanimous from the reservoir side the operations side and the G&amp;G side the tease or kind of look-alike potential of the Eagle Ford in the future.
Now maybe they will be maybe they won't be but there will -- we categorize as what the Eagle Ford might have looked like in the very first part of 2010.
We're spending anywhere from $200 to $1 500 or so per acre.
You can -- we've said that the goal is in each of these plays you're going to have a minimum of 20 000 25 000 acres and maybe a maximum of 50 000 acres.
And that's kind of your $120 million.
We never said that we're going to be like Rip Van Winkle and go to sleep and not acquire acreage because we acquire acreage.
When we got out of the Gulf we went to the Haynesville it worked.
From the Haynesville we go to the Eagle Ford it worked.
We go from Eagle Ford to the Permian it obviously worked.
And guess what? We're back working again.
And we're telling you the dollars that we're going to deploy to do that and we're going to tell you that we're going to attempt to have a somewhat balanced budget in 2014.
We'll talk about our budget in December but we're not going to become reckless because we have money.
But we're going to be accountable for all the shareholders.
We're going to give them a dividend and we're going to buy shares back if we think the shares are "not behaving properly" at the same time we'd love to invest in the future of the company and it should be 2 new areas.
So I hope Don that sets as good an answer as I can give you right now.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely and I appreciate that.
And looking into 2014 while I'm not looking for specifics can you comment just broadly on staying within cash flow like you had talked before? I mean with the new ventures are you going to have a lot of time on these leases in order to evaluate and not spend a bunch of money right from the first day? Well the goal is to have 2 new core oil basins 80-plus percent oil.
It's to have the equivalent of primary leases so the leases don't dictate that you have to have heavy drilling at all.
And you can filter in these 2 plays throughout 2014 and you can do it within a reasonable budget.
So our goal is to not materially outspend our free cash flow at all.
I mean we're going to try to stay within that ballpark.
I think once we're able to announce what we're doing then Don we'll put our budget together and believe me we'll be accountable for the dollars that we'll spend and you'll never see us become reckless because we shouldn't become reckless.
We fought really hard to reduce our debt the right way by being -- by creating a profit and we did that in May of this year.
So you can see that our borrowing base should materially increase.
Our production should grow.
We've got a hedging program for oil.
So we're going to protect ourselves from the downside.
We'd go from spending $103 million in the Haynesville to $19 million this year.
Next year it could be like $10 million.
We don't really see any obligation wells in the Haynesville that we have to drill.
We might just put a small budget in there just to have it there.
But we're going to be a good solid growth company with a good strong balance sheet.
Your next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for Mack (sic) [Mark].
I was wondering -- I didn't hear you talk about the oil/gas mix on the wells in McMullen the Swenson and the Forrest Wheeler wells.
Was it -- is it gas here as you go south? I'm assuming yes.
Yes.
Our -- we're between 80% and 90% oil on all of our wells.
Our GOR is not very high even in McMullen County so we're probably still over 80% on those wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I was wondering have you -- can you give me a sense of what the EUR is for on the 2 Haynesville wells you drilled this year and kind of what your plans are looking like into '14 there? As far as '14 we don't have any Haynesville wells planned.
We have a small budget that we'll probably include in our 2014 budget just for non-op and anything that comes up that might be an obligation but we don't have anything planned to drill in 2014.
I don't have the specific EUR numbers on those 2 wells.
They're probably in the 6 range something in there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it got it.
And maybe just one last quick one.
In terms of the acquisition would you be looking to have a partner on that or would you want to stay 100%? I think what we do on that Ray we see what our obligation might be and then if there's an increased amount of acreage that we could possibly acquire if we had a partner I think the goal is to be -- have a financially-sound balance sheet and CapEx budget at the same time drill several wells in 2014 in each of these areas to prove up the areas along with other operators that are in the areas.
And then if we can add more acreage and it makes sense to bring a partner in I think we'd look at that.
I think we have the potential to bring one in.
So in the past you didn't know if we could bring one in because historically we never have.
But I do think our relationship with KKR and/or others and our performance at the drill bit in the areas that we've been in would allow us to do that.
So I think that's just a financial decision where we don't plan on getting over-levered at all.
If we need a partner to take a little bigger bite out of the apple then maybe we'd do that.
But we're not telling you that we will.
We're telling you that if we had to we would.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jay your recent strategy in the Eagle Ford just curious if this has changed now that you have $120 million slated to go outside the Eagle Ford into -- to new basins.
I think the original plan was 6 000 or 7 000 a year being added in just kind of core bolt-on deals.
I think the answer is we're continuing -- like we added the 2 300 acres in the Eagle Ford in the last quarter but we're continuing to add Eagle Ford acreage.
I mean we've got some more acreage in the queue right now.
But I think we've got like a $20 million -- we gave you kind of a $20 million budget for that and that's the 3 000 to 6 000 acres or so.
So that is still what we're doing.
But you can't always rely upon the fact that you can get that amount of acres annually.
Now we think we have a pretty good shot this year and we already have some more acreage that we'll probably report at the end of next quarter.
However you still have to rely upon your big growth engine because -- which is our G&amp;G group to find new areas like they did in the Permian like they did in Eagle Ford.
But I think Mike the difference is we said that it was a $50 million to $100 million investment and now we've changed that.
We said "Well we really know now it's between $100 million and $120 million in these 2 new areas if what we're attempting to do we're successful in doing." So we thought it's fair for the shareholders and you as an analyst et cetera to know what we were doing with the dollars and to know that we're trying to create wealth in 2 other regions that are similarly looking to what the Eagle Ford looked like at the beginning of 2010.
Which goes back to Don's question earlier.
If you remember when we market with you when we went into Eagle Ford we put a rig and in July of 2010 we didn't put a second rig in until January of 2011.
So we let our outcome dictate the number of wells that we drilled in the Eagle Ford and along with the success from the other operators.
And these 2 new areas that we're attempting to acquire acreage in that is our same strategy.
So we'll make an initial investment of $100 million to $120 million in these 2 areas.
We'll filter in these wells throughout 2014.
We'll not become reckless.
Hopefully we'll add great inventory of oil locations in each of those 2 areas by the middle to latter part of 2014 by a little bit of our own drilling and maybe a lot of other operators' drilling.
So no.
It's basically the exact same footprint.
We're going to continue to add Eagle Ford acreage where we can find it.
We're not going to bank everything on doing that even though we've been successful this last quarter in acquiring acreage and not a lot of money in the Eagle Ford.
Does that answer that Mike? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
Two quick follow-ups on that front.
So if I took the $20 million that you have allocated to the Eagle Ford leasehold CapEx and just divide it by the midpoint of that 3 000 to 6 000 that implies you're paying about a little over $4 000 in acreage just wanted to confirm if that's what you're doing this at.
And then just the timing on the leasehold pickups in these 2 other basins.
You do have it in the 2013 budget.
Do you expect to be -- how much do you expect to actually get signed by the end of the year? Well the $4 000 is a good number.
I think give or take $400 or $500 that's a good number.
And then I think the reason we stick that $120 million in 2013 is because there's a great chance that that will happen in 2013.
And we don't want to surprise everybody at year-end and all of a sudden they see that we spent $100 million to $120 million when we've told the market it's between $50 million and $100 million.
We said it'll be between now and the next year and you don't know when those opportunities come around but they're here.
So we're kind of giving you a heads-up that that is -- there is a chance that that might happen this year which Mike could be good because then we could factor that into our budget in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My favorite question downspacing in the Eagle Ford it looks like you're still carrying 80-acre spacing any updated thoughts on that please? It's time to beat Mark up on that and he won't budge on me but I'll let him answer.
Rehan we're always evaluating it but based on our information our reserves and recoveries we don't think that downspacing is really an opportunity that we will pursue in the Eagle Ford at this time.
We think we're at the right spacing and we think as you get much tighter you really diminish your net present value on the properties by going down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any incremental changes to well design from here more stages more tighter cost of spacing anything on that front? We're testing several right now.
We're testing both of those really tighter cluster spacing and frac-ing less clusters per stage.
And we'll do those tests over the next couple of months and kind of see what kind of impact we get and then move forward with a revised design if we do see enough benefit for that additional cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the Haynesville front last time Jay and Roland we talked -- you guys had mentioned some kind of incremental work on longer lat curls any kind of update on that front from a permitting to /science work standpoint? Well we think in the core of the Permian if we kind of extend the laterals to 6.5 we could probably have a drilling program in the $4.30 price range.
However Rehan I think with the success we've had in the Eagle Ford and hopefully the potential purchasing of leases in 2 new key core areas within this oil basin we'll de-risk part of that in 2014.
And then we'll see Rehan where gas prices go.
We're trying to [indiscernible] the company up to say -- look we've got 60 cfe we think there's resource potential in the Haynesville.
I guess at a $4.30 price we could probably start some of the infield for 6.5 drilling laterals.
But we're really in a period of a $4.50 to $5.00 price that's when you can have a dedicated program when you can hedge and you can really develop your Haynesville better.
So we're -- that's why kind of in closing we say we don't think that we have to drill any Haynesville wells because we don't.
Now can we introduce it? Absolutely.
And the beauty of that is kind of like 2012 we spent $103 million holding acreage and completing wells in the Haynesville.
This year we spent $19 million.
I mean that's a lot of extra money we can spend on oil right now.
And that's what we're doing because that's what we should be doing.
Research Division</strong> And one quick one the share buyback with maybe capital allocation priorities changing into '14 with more acreage is that -- does that share buyback take a backseat from this point on? No not at all.
I think we -- that's what we try to advertise "Here is the amount of money we've invested we will invest or hope to invest in acreage in the future." We do hope to have 2 new oil regions and we'll filter in whatever budget we'll have in those 2 regions in a 2014 budget if we can close those by year-end.
But at the same time we're totally committed to a dividend which is at 3% yield.
At the same time we're committed to share buybacks if the shares what we call misbehaved.
So we bought 1.3% of the shares back and we can do that.
You can see our borrowing base should go up to that $1 billion with $625 million available.
So I mean we're getting stronger financially.
And the reason is we divested our sales of the Permian properties.
It unlocked our great strength and we're using those now.
You're just now starting to see it.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question can you give us a sense of how much of the $120 million you've spent so far? No we can't comment on that.
None as of the -- into the third quarter.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes good.
But a good chance that most of it should be done by year-end is that fair based on your previous comments? I think we'd like it for it to be spent.
Now whether that happens or not I don't know.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a quick question on the Eagle Ford production growth.
I mean just given the completions that you showed in that one chart with most of them coming in December even at the low end of your 8.3 to 9 range that's implying 20% sequential growth.
Are you -- you guys are comfortable with that based on the completions that were happening in 3Q? Yes.
This is Roland Amir.
Yes we -- yes a lot of that was achieved with the activity in third quarter not really based on the December activities.
So achieving the high end of the range with what-have-those contribute some but with those being pushed toward the very end of the year that's why we have kind of a larger range that we'd like to have for the fourth quarter because of the timing of -- do we get a month to production out of a lot of those? Do we get a half a month? Do we get a day? So that's -- accounts for the range.
But we're very comfortable that we can be in that range given the levels of production we're at now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that sounds good.
And just a final question on the Haynesville.
I mean if you didn't do any drilling next year what kind of decline rates would that field have 15% to 20% would be a fair number or would it still be higher than that? Well I think -- I know that we're looking at our total gas production to decline by around 15% to 18% next year so the Haynesville is probably a little -- as a component would be a little larger than that probably in the 25% range would be my guess.
But company-wide that 15% to 18% is a good number.
That's what we're looking at with no investment in gas at all next year so we can take that kind of a floor.
Your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Yes.
The downtick in the 3P reserves in the presentation from 78 million BOE to 70 million BOE what was -- did you condense some locations? Are you assuming smaller wells there? What drove that change from 2Q to 3Q? Well Marshall what we did is with the -- some of the acreage has expired and that's out of our acreage count.
And most of that that we didn't have locations on.
And then we added some new acres and that's really just a more refined calculation of putting -- we do have 300 operated engineered locations on our acreage that we feel like are -- will all be developed.
And then we just kind of put those in their real proper EUR category so we think it's a very fair number a much more precise number than before.
So I think it's just much more precision.
And there is some of our acreage that has a -- that's not been put in an operated unit yet that probably we have potential for but we're going to kind of wait and add that when we kind of get those put into a unit.
So I think it's really just more precision on the numbers than anything else.
Okay.
And in terms of the 2 new areas is it a bunch of small packages some sort of organic leasing or is there some -- a few key -- a couple of key packages you're looking for? I'm wondering if we're going to -- you would likely have an announcement or would it just be when your numbers come out you can reveal those positions? I think that if we can -- I think we have an obligation.
If we spend that amount of money between now and year-end then we'll put a press release on about it because I think that's a fair thing to do to the markets.
And Marshall I think if you kind of look at the rest of the year things could be different.
But before the fourth quarter update which obviously won't come until next year we see -- of course we'll finalize our bank facility so that should be pretty imminent coming out.
We'll report in our capital budget after approval by our board in early December.
But those 2 are things that are planned on.
And then I think that if we are able to complete significant leasings in these 2 areas in the fourth quarter which we think is probable we'll probably report on that also.
So I think those are the 3 kind of announcements we could say that are probably going to come before the end of the year.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Rehan Rashid from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Yes real quick.
On the inventory for Eagle Ford is that the remaining inventory? Is that the total? No Rehan that would be the total [indiscernible] on that acreage.
I would now like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Jay Allison for closing remarks.
Again I think this is the first quarter that we've had that is pretty much a clean quarter after the divestiture.
And you can see hopefully the direction that we're focused.
We're focused on telling you what our bank facility looks like telling you what the results are from the 6-rig program of what is -- in the Eagle Ford or what they should look like in October November December of this year.
And then being accountable to you for the entrance in the 2 new oil regions that we think we'll be successful in entering.
And if we are successful we will put a press release out on that and we'll be accountable to how we would develop those regions in 2014 and beyond.
So again we're always appreciative of your time and thanks for the conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2014 Comstock Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mark and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jay Allison CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Mark and welcome.
I know there are some competing conference calls today there may be 2 or 3 so again I thank you for attending this one.
I was visiting with Roland and Mark earlier and I decided that my opening comments and my closing comments are really about the same.
And the proof is in the middle which is the report that we'll give you and that's operations update from Mark and financial update from Roland.
But what I'd like to do I'd like to start out and tell you what's happened in the last year because that's a very important sticking point with us.
It's a good starting point.
On May 14 2013 we received a wire for $824 million upon selling our Permian assets and we reported a gain on the sale of $230 million or $3.21 per share for all of you which are the shareholders.
That's a year ago.
At that time our oil production was approximately 5 300 barrels of oil per day.
And this first quarter of 2014 we averaged at 10 400 barrels of oil per day almost a double from 1 year ago today.
In 2014 we think we can double our oil production.
Although our natural gas production has declined as we expected since we are spending no money on developing our gas fields our gas price realizations offset the production declines.
One of our great catalyst at Comstock is our ability to inventory approximately 6 trillion cubic feet of Haynesville gas reserves and 1 000 drill sites in the future when natural gas rebounds to the $5 range.
But we're at $0.30 from that happening in the current market.
And then last year our debt has been materially reduced as you've seen and our borrowing base materially increased as you've seen.
We're $340 million currently undrawn on our facility.
The stellar performance of our South Texas Eagle Ford region which Mark will go into in a moment our Bell-Cal [ph] asset today provides predictable oil growth as reflected in our numbers and our credit facility.
At Comstock we believe in our people and we invest in our people all of them.
As a result we've had exemplary success in our Haynesville region in the past then the investment in and selling of our Permian assets and now the South Texas Eagle Ford region.
The Comstock future is clearly visible.
As our $100 million investment in the 30 400 net acres East Texas Eagle Ford play in Burleson County should continue to be materially derisked in 2014 and 2015 as we join in with other active operators to aggressively develop this extension of the Eagle Ford shale play.
And our 52 200 net acres of the TMS which we think is in the core of the play should provide us great growth in 2015.
Our current plan is to spud a well at Wilkinson County in July to drill our first TMS wells.
We will join other operators who have committed $700 million in 2014 to drill approximately 60 TMS wells.
We think that the $57 million we invested in the TMS to-date should provide us year-after-year of material growth in the future.
Needless to say but we have never been more excited about where we are and where we're going at Comstock.
And the key really is balance which we have between oil and gas and our financial flexibility which we created by the profits we received 1 year ago today with our Permian sale and our investment and our people and their belief in the South Texas Eagle Ford region and now in the East Texas Eagle Ford and the TMS.
So with that I'll formally start our conference call of the first quarter of 2014 results.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources First Quarter 2014 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and clicking Presentations.
There you will find a presentation entitled First Quarter 2014 Results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock.
And with me this morning are Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2014 first quarter operating and financial results.
Flip to Slide 2 please refer to Slide 2 in our presentation and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Now our 2014 first quarter highlights to Slide 3.
Slide 3 lists some of the highlights in our first quarter.
The 119% increase in our oil production this quarter drove large increases in our revenues EBITDAX and cash flow.
Our oil and gas sales this quarter of $142 million are up 49% over 2013's first quarter.
EBITDAX this quarter of $110 million is 52% higher than 2013's first quarter.
And our cash flow from operations grew 72% this quarter to $98 million $2.05 per share.
We reported net income excluding nonrecurring items of $3.5 million or $0.08 per share for the quarter.
Our outlook calls for more oil production growth for the rest of the year.
Oil now makes up 34% of our total production in the first quarter and is expected to average over 40% this year.
We expect that oil production will grow 88% to 103% over 2013 driven by our successful drilling program our investment in our people.
In the first quarter we drilled 22 successful Eagle Ford wells and put 38 new Eagle Ford shale wells on production.
Our well costs continue to come down in our South Texas Eagle Ford program as Mark will go over in a moment.
In the first quarter our average completed well cost fell to $6.8 million before the KKR promote which is 11% lower than last year.
We're very excited about recent developments in our 2 new ventures.
I think they're box office hits this summer: the East Texas Eagle Ford and the TMS.
We added 9 000 acres in our Burleson County play in the first quarter by buying out our partner.
We also added 1 000 net acres in the TMS.
Most importantly offset operator activity in both plays which Mark will discuss in a few minutes has been very very encouraging.
I'll now let Roland Burns review the financial results for you in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
We recap our oil production growth which is driving the improvements to revenues cash flow and earnings this quarter on Slide 4.
Our oil production increased to 10 400 barrels per day this quarter and was up 2 800 barrels per day or 37% over last quarter.
It's also up 119% over the first quarter of 2013.
Our Eagle Ford properties of South Texas accounted for most of our oil production.
After falling behind on schedule completion activity late last year we caught up in January and we are now on track to meeting our goal of doubling our oil production this year.
For the first 3 quarters of 2014 -- I mean for the last 3 quarters of 2014 we are expecting the oil production to average between 12 400 to 13 700 barrels per day based on our current drilling and completion schedule.
This would represent an 88% to 103% growth over 2013.
Slide 5 shows our natural gas production which continues to decline.
It was down 30% from the first quarter of last year at 122 million cubic feet per day.
With no natural gas directed drilling taking place this year we expect our natural gas production to decline further in 2014 and to average approximately 102 million to 112 million per day for the remaining 9 months of the year or 23% to 30% less than 2013.
Slide 6 shows our realized oil prices this quarter.
Oil price realizations in South Texas improved some in the first quarter of 2014 but were not as strong as they were in the first quarter of 2013.
We realized $96.59 per barrel down from $105.82 per barrel we realized in the first quarter of 2013.
Our realized price averaged 98% of the average benchmark NYMEX-WTI price as the LLS premium to WTI was less than our transportation costs to get our oil to that market.
58% of our oil production was hedged this quarter at a NYMEX-WTI price of $96.42.
After our hedging program our realized price decreased to $95.20 per barrel 14% less than our after-hedging oil price we averaged in the fourth quarter of -- in the first quarter of 2013 of $111.19.
Slide 7 shows our current oil hedges for the remainder of 2014.
We have 7 000 barrels per day hedged at $96.60 per barrel.
This represents a little more than half of our projected 2014 production.
We'll look to hedge our 2015 oil production when longer-term oil prices approach the current levels.
Slide 8 shows our average gas price which improved by 49% in the first quarter to $4.70 per Mcf as compared to $3.15 in the first quarter of 2013.
Our realized price was 95% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
The higher realized gas prices offset the impact of the production declines that we had this quarter.
On Slide 9 we cover our oil and gas sales including realized hedging gains or losses.
The 119% increase in oil production and improved natural gas prices offset the lower natural gas production this quarter and drove sales up 44% over the first quarter of 2013.
Our sales increased to $141 million this quarter compared to $97 million in last year's first quarter.
Oil accounted for 63% of our total sales as compared to 49% in the first quarter of last year.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX increased by 52% to $110 million this quarter from $72 million in 2013's first quarter as shown on Slide 10.
Cash flow increased significantly this quarter driven by the increase in oil sales and lower interest costs.
On Slide 11 you can see that our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $98 million increasing 74% from cash flow of $56 million in 2013's first quarter.
Cash flow per share this quarter of $2.05 per share was up 77% from cash flow per share of $1.16 in the first quarter of 2013 reflecting the lower share count we now have after repurchasing some of the shares last year.
On Slide 12 we outline our earnings.
We reported net income of $1.2 million or $0.02 per share this quarter as compared to a net loss of $27 million or $0.58 in 2013's first quarter.
We only had one unusual item in the first quarter results which was a $3.6 million unrealized loss relating to our oil hedge position.
Excluding this item we would have reported net income of $0.08 per share as compared to our recurring loss from continuing operations of $0.48 per share in 2013's first quarter.
On Slide 11 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter relating to our continuing operations.
Our total lifting cost increased to $1.47 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to $1.07 in the first quarter of 2013 and the $1.36 we averaged in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase is mainly due to the lower natural gas volumes in the fixed nature of much of our lifting costs combined with the higher cost oil production including higher production taxes on oil.
Production taxes were $0.34 per Mcfe this quarter and our transportation cost averaged $0.23 in the first quarter.
Field operating costs increased to $0.90 per Mcfe this quarter as compared to $0.84 in the fourth quarter of last year.
On Slide 14 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative costs increased to $0.37 per Mcfe in the quarter as compared to $0.31 in the first quarter of 2013 mainly due to the lower gas production volumes we had this quarter.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 15.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the first quarter averaged $5.36 per Mcfe as compared to our $4.66 rate in the first quarter of 2013 and the $4.94 that we averaged in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The higher rate is due to the oil production representing a higher percentage of the company's total equivalent production this quarter.
On Slide 16 we detail our capital expenditures relating to our continuing operations.
We spent $188 million in the first quarter as compared to $58 million that we spent in 2013's first quarter just on continuing operations.
We did spend an additional $56 million on our West Texas properties in that quarter.
The $188 million includes $40 million of leased acquisition costs primarily related to our acquisition of an additional 30% interest in the East Texas Eagle Ford shale acreage and Burleson County Texas.
We also spent much of the $76 million that was budgeted for a completion of carryover wells of our 2013 drilling program in this quarter.
We do expect the capital spending for the remaining 3 quarters to be much more in line with the cash flow that we generate from operations.
On Slide 17 we outline the components of our revised 2014 capital budget.
In connection with the acquisition of additional interest in the Burleson County acreage we increased our capital budget for this year to account for those acquisition costs plus the higher interest in the wells in the East Texas Eagle Ford and a revised rig utilization schedule.
We expect to spend $510 million this year on development exploration projects and another $55 million for lease acquisition activity which includes the first quarter acquisitions.
The budget for drilling activity includes: $284 million to drill 65 wells 46 net wells in the Eagleville field in South Texas; $79 million to drill 10 Eagle Ford shale wells or 9.2 net wells on the new Burleson County Texas acreage; and then $33 million to drill 3 wells 2.7 net wells on our Tuscaloosa Marine shale acreage.
The budget also includes $76 million to complete 18 wells or 13.3 net wells that we carried over from last year and $38 million in facilities and other development activity.
The increase in planned activity has allowed us to increase our outlook for oil production this year but will have a much larger impact on our expectations for 2015 oil production.
Slide 18 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the first quarter.
We have $2 million of cash on hand and $949 million of total debt at March 31.
Our debt increased $150 million this quarter partly due to a large deferred lease bonus payment of $44 million for the TMS acreage we acquired in 2013.
That expenditure was reflected in 2013 but the cash payment is shown as a change in working capital this quarter.
We also had the acquisition of the additional interest in the East Texas Eagle Ford acreage this quarter combined with a high completion activity in the South Texas Eagle Ford.
At our spring bank [ph] meeting our borrowing base under our $1 billion bank credit facility was increased to $700 million giving us unused availability of $340 million.
We continue to pay a quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share to our stockholders as we show on Slide 19.
This dividend costs the company around $6 million a quarter.
If you notice on Slide 19 only 1/3 of the 62 E&amp;P companies that we track pay a dividend.
And of those companies we have the third highest dividend yield of 2.2% at March 31.
I'll now turn it over to Mark to review our drilling results for the first quarter.
Thank you Roland.
Slide 20 shows the location of the wells we have drilled in our Eagleville field in South Texas in the first quarter of 2014 along with our 2013 drilled wells.
We drilled 22 horizontal oil wells 16.5 net in the first quarter and had 7 wells 5.6 net drilling at March 31 2014.
Completion activity was very high in this quarter.
Since the beginning of the year we have put 38 new oil wells or 28.6 net wells on production in the Eagleville field.
The wells with the highest initial production rates since our last update on February 10 were the Swenson A #2H A #3H and A #4H wells in McMullen County which had IPs in excess of 1 000 BOE per day.
Slide 21 compares our 2014 completions to our prior year completions.
Our average 24-hour IP rates were lower this quarter at 663 BOE per day as compared to 785 BOE per day in 2013.
Much of this was due to 9 wells we drilled on our RTH lease which had short laterals due to the acreage configuration.
Excluding these short lateral wells our average 24-hour IP rate was much closer to the 2013 average at 746 BOE per day.
On Slide 22 we track the cost of our Eagle Ford wells which have decreased considerably since we started drilling in August 2010.
In 2010 our first 2 wells averaged $11.4 million.
Costs have been reduced to an average of $7.6 million per well in 2013.
Faster drill times lower well stimulation costs and more efficient field operations account for much of the savings.
The wells drilled in recent years have much longer laterals and larger stimulation treatments despite these lower costs.
In the first quarter we reduced our average well cost to $6.8 million.
Our joint venture further enhances our return as the effective average well cost in 2014 to Comstock on an 8H basis improves to $5.8 million when the KKR spud fee is considered.
Further savings are possible as our new frac contract will save us between $350 000 and $400 000 per well starting in the second quarter of this year.
On Slide 23 we show a detailed map of the East Texas Eagle Ford acreage in Burleson County.
We acquired 21 000 net acres for $67 million in 2013 and purchased the remaining 30% interest in these properties this quarter for $34 million.
We now have 30 400 net acres prospective for Eagle Ford shale development in this area.
Slide 24 shows recent activity in the vicinity of our East Texas Eagle Ford acreage.
Several wells have had initial production rates in excess of 1 000 BOE per day.
The most recent is the Stifflemire well drilled by Halcón adjacent to our acreage.
We have staked the first 5 wells of the 10 wells we plan to drill this year to test our acreage.
They are shown as red stars on this map.
We are currently drilling the Henry A #1H located in the center of our acreage.
We drilled a pilot hole to 9 990 feet and cut a 227-foot core and logged the Eagle Ford interval.
We have started horizontal operations and are currently drilling the lateral at 12 000 feet.
Projected TD for this well is 17 500 feet measured depth.
On Slide 25 we show a detailed map of the Tuscaloosa Marine shale play.
We now have 52 200 net acres in what we believe is the most prospective parts of this emerging play.
Our acreage is located in Wilkinson and Amite Counties in Mississippi and East Feliciana and St.
Helena parishes in Louisiana.
Our map on Slide 26 shows recent TMS wells with initial production rates over 1 000 barrels of oil per day including the very successful Goodrich Crosby well in Wilkinson County.
We expect to start drilling the first of 3 planned wells in July.
We have primarily been involved with leasing activities and forming units on our acreage.
Our timing is still very tentative and may change based on how units are formed and the time required to obtain the necessary permits.
We have entered into data trades with active operators to allow us to access proprietary well information to improve our well designs.
We are excited about the ongoing activity in the TMS.
On Slide 27 we show the permits by other operators near our acreage.
We will continue to monitor new wells to learn how operators are overcoming their initial drilling and completion problems encountered in this play.
I'll now turn it over back to Jay.
Well as Roland and Mark has said we are a balanced oil and gas company.
We do have a major gas field at Haynesville in inventory.
And at $5 we can start proving up our 6 Tcf reserves in our 1 000 locations.
We do expect our oil growth to double in 2014 by drilling wells not by buying oil.
We've added 2 emerging oil plays which we think will be stellar plays: the East Texas Eagle Ford spent $100 million on 30 400 acres; in the TMS we spent $57 million on 52 200 acres.
I think that's going to be our oil growth in the future.
And again we have a very strong balance sheet $340 million of liquidity.
The future has never looked better at Comstock ever.
So for the rest of the call we'll take questions only from the research analysts who follow the stock.
Mark I'll turn it back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Don Crist from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Can we start in the Southern Eagle Ford? The RTH wells were lower than your traditional IP rates in the area but can you talk -- give us a little bit more color around those wells and maybe lateral lengths and costs to those wells? And how they competed on an IRR basis? Yes Don.
This is Mark.
Those -- the lateral length averaged about 4 600 feet in that area and we were really restricted just because that's -- we drilled our entire lease and that's basically -- the shape of the lease allowed us to set up 2 units North and South at 4 600-foot length.
IP rates slightly less than your average on a foot -- per foot basis but only maybe 10% less not significantly less on a per foot basis.
So it really performed pretty close to our average.
Rate of returns these wells were very low cost because of the short laterals.
I think our average cost in these wells is probably around $6 million.
So on an IRR basis they're very competitive with the rest of our program.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That's exactly what I was thinking as well just given the lateral lengths.
And moving over to Burleson County a lot of activities going on there right now.
Can you give us an idea of how you're looking at the rest of the year? Obviously you're drilling your first well now but do you plan on keeping that rig active for the rest of the year? And maybe adding another rig given obviously the success or failure? Yes Don this is Mark again.
Yes our plan is to -- we have a rig running right now on the first well and we will run that rig through the year.
And in our new revised budget we have a second rig starting in October.
Now that rig is contingent on results so we'll have results before we move that second rig over there but that is our plan at this time.
And with all the encouragement we're getting from the offset results we are highly confident we'll have the second rig running in the play in the fall.
And Don this is Jay.
I think the goal in Burleson was could we really add another 9 000-plus acres because we thought acreage would be a lot harder to add there than the TMS.
Because there are fewer acres available in the East Texas Eagle Ford because a lot of that as you know was held by production from the oil fields back in the '80s.
So when we were able to get the other 9 000 acres and get a 30 000 net acre footprint we internally think that that acreage position is probably twice as valuable as our South Texas Eagle Ford acreage position.
If we are correct when we drill these wells and it continues to be derisked then a lot of these wells will look like our Gloria Wheeler wells did in McMullen which are our better wells.
So we're excited to get the 9 000 acres.
We continue to see stellar results from other operators around us that are very vocal about their success which we -- where we applaud.
And we look at that and you haven't had hardly any if any drilling or completion issues in this area.
I mean we drilled 140 South Texas Eagle Ford wells we think this is an extension of this same Eagle Ford play and these wells are pretty similar.
So hopefully they'll be better and we'll test that theory.
We did say based upon the 16 rigs that are active in that area today that we need to be prepared to have a second rig if we want to put a second rig in use fourth quarter or whatever.
So we're preparing that.
You've got to prepare -- as you know Don through the land.
It's a land issue really.
You've got to make sure that the drill sites are ready.
So on the Slide 24 we show you the 5 initial locations.
We tell you we'll drill 10 wells.
We own more interest in every well which we like because if they're good wells you want to own more of them.
So we think that in the last 90 days the -- this Burleson acreage has really materialized to be a lot more derisked than we thought it would be at this point in time.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question for me about Burleson.
A lot of debates have been swirling around on where that gas oil wet gas lines are.
Can you just give us a sense because your slide is a little bit cartoonish as to how much of your acreage is in the southeast portion which maybe in the condensate-rich portion of the play versus the black oil? Yes Don this is Mark.
If you look at our map we didn't label the colors.
But the gray is our estimate of the black oil area and the green would be volatile oil.
And then that -- kind of each color I guess would be condensate.
So that's how we have it broken out based on the gas oil ratios that we see in the other producers.
And that green to peach boundary may move north and south a little bit but it's getting pretty well defined.
So we believe that all our acreage is either in black oil or in the volatile oil window based on gas oil ratios.
Remember if you look at Gloria Wheeler it's in a volatile oil/black oil window that you have your better wells.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit from BMO Capital Markets.
Just sticking with that last question on the East Texas Eagle Ford how much of the leasehold sits in the volatile oil window by your estimate today? Dan this is Mark.
I believe about 25% -- 20% 25% of it it's in the volatile oil window and 75% of it would be in the black oil window.
Yes we saw the low was 15% and a high of 25%.
It's kind of in that range.
Okay great.
Next question then how might the capital expenditure budget change again as the year progresses? That is any chance capital has shifted out of South Texas and into East Texas or the TMS upon greater success? Yes Dan this is Roland.
I think that given that we're getting -- approaching the halfway point of the year it may be difficult to see a big change between regions.
I think what the real question would be how do we kind of set it up next year and I think those movements are definitely -- you can see you have more activity in the new plays than the old traditional play next year.
I think the real question is on the -- as we approach the mid-year point and we've already kind of factored in adding the second rig to the East Texas area will be the timing of when we start the work in the TMS.
I mean that's the most tentative I think part of our schedule right now whether that gets started up and we actually get the 3 wells in this year.
That assumes we start sometime in July.
But I think as we progress further than in plan we'll really be looking for a 2015 budget that based on results can really show more ramp-up in the new plays.
And I think the other thing we do have the ability -- which we didn't a year ago.
We have ability to balance our budget.
I mean you go back to 2012 we spent $102 million on gas.
Well it's 0 now.
We can go to 0 because we've done that.
If we choose to add the Haynesville it's because gas prices are $5 or greater but we can choose to do that.
Same way with the East Texas Eagle Ford would they rig we're in great shape.
We would choose to put a second one there to increase that budget.
But we don't have to do that because leases are expiring.
The same way with TMS.
As we discussed [ph] with you earlier we said well maybe 2 wells.
And then a month or so ago maybe 0 wells because we only have to drill 3 wells by the end of 2015.
And then as we've seen the success in the TMS and that footprint that we have we thought you know what it'd be a really good year in 2014 if we could exit with 1 and maybe a second TMS well but those are optional.
Those are very flexible.
That $20 million $25 million extra there we don't have to spend.
So we don't want to become reckless with our balance sheet.
That's why when the banks looked at us a couple of weeks ago we -- our borrowing base increased to $700 million.
And our goal is always to keep it at least undrawn what our CapEx budget might be for a given year.
Now we never end up accomplishing that goal but it is a goal we try to accomplish.
And we don't have to outspend our cash flow if we don't want to because again we have added our biggest part of our footprints in both of these plays.
Well I think we'll see the next 3 quarters that -- dependent on commodity prices that we're going to be much closer to the CapEx to operating costs.
And then hopefully we'll achieve that goal of balancing those the next 3 quarters with all of the no-unusual items kind of expected in those quarters.
Well and you won't have the $80 million carryover for completing all those wells which got our production up to that 10-plus-thousand barrels a day and that was a line item for our CapEx budget.
And a lot of companies backward date everything but we didn't.
We got our production up.
We want to keep it up and grow it.
Got it great.
Appreciate that.
And then just if I may quickly 2 follow-ups.
Just turning to South Texas then what is the game plan for the RTH leasehold going forward considering the limitation on lateral length yet competitive returns with what's drilled elsewhere in South Texas? Dan this is Mark.
The RTH lease is mostly developed so there's just a few locations left there.
And if they're competitive on an IRR basis then we'll drill them like everything else.
Okay great.
And then on the TMS forgive me if you've identified this in your presentation but where will the first 3 wells be located? We are working on permits.
This is Mark again.
But our plan right now would be to drill 2 wells on our northern acreage and 1 on our south to really test both areas and that there again is somewhat dependent on permit timing and on well results between now and then.
So 2 in Wilkinson and then we will have 1 elsewhere.
Your next question comes from the line of Kim Pacanovsky from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> You guys had said that you were looking at some data trade agreements with others in the East Texas Eagle Ford and I'm wondering if anything has been inked on that? And if you've had any insight into how Halcón's Stifflemire well? Kim this is Mark.
Yes we have inked a couple of agreements and we do have some of the information on the Stifflemire well.
But by definition data trade means you have to have something to trade which we're helping that with our first well.
So as we provide information we get information back which would be very helpful.
But yes we have a good bit of information on the Stifflemire.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Is there anything notable that you can share with us? No it's -- that's Halcón's information it's not ours.
It's a good well and it's right next to us and that's all I could say about it.
This is Jay.
You know our relationship with Petro Oil Halcón Floyd it goes back probably 2 decades.
Same way with Goodrich it goes back almost 2 decades so this -- you deal with people and we deal with people.
They are good people so.
LLC Research Division</strong> And when will you get the core data back on the East Texas the vertical you drilled before you kicked it out? Yes Kim this is Mark.
That data would kind of trickle in over time.
We've gotten a little preliminary data in now and we'll continue to get it probably over about a 3- or 4-month period.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you'll have all that data before you commit to a second rig along with a first well result or maybe first few well results? Yes that's our expectation to have that data.
And then there again it's trade data to be able to get data on another well too so which kind of doubles the value of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay great.
And then just another question on the TMS and timing.
I just want to kind of narrow this down because you -- initially you said mid-summer you'd drilled a well and then you said that it would be later in the year.
Now you're back to July again.
What would cause this well to not be drilled in July now? I mean if -- we have a couple of well results coming out from Halcón from Goodrich in the near future.
If either of these were maybe iffy would you put this well back off to the end of the year? Or are you committed to drilling this well in July the first well? Kim I've always told Mark we should probably wait and Mark being a stellar Aggie says you have to spend money to make money.
And if there's a party going on we want to join it.
So I do leave that up to Mark with a little asterisk.
So Mark you want to answer that question? Yes Kim.
Our plan right now is to go forward.
Now we don't have the permits finalized and the units finalized.
So there could be some delay if we just run into regulatory issues getting permits finalized so that would drag it.
Or a rig availability we do not have a rig for that just yet.
We're starting to look for one but we don't know exactly what the rig availability is.
So that timing -- that's where Jay had said earlier that timing is going to be pretty flexible because it's dependent on a lot of items that are not really in our control.
We do not expect well results to really deter our idea.
We have too many good well results for 1 data point to change our opinion.
Right.
So Kim our goal is to drill that well.
Yes the other really encouraging thing is we have seen several wells just in the last 2 months that have been drilled in 30 to 35 or 36 days which was a vast improvement over what it was maybe a year ago.
So we're seeing what we expected which is the learning curve building and the operator quality is really having an impact on results out here.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> You gave the well count completed in the Eagle Ford through April.
Could you give us the breakdown of expected completions for 1Q 2Q 3Q and 4Q? Ideally on a net basis but if it's a gross basis that's fine too.
I think Gary can get back to you with that later.
I don't think we have that kind of -- in front of us here.
I don't have it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Next question would be on the gas drilling.
The idea of if gas prices get above $5 you could potentially renew that.
Do -- would you look at the strip needing to go above $5? Or how much time would you need gas to stay over $5 for you to decide to do that? I think if we evaluate -- this is Roland if we evaluate the gas prices I mean it obviously needs to be a longer-term price so we're not just waiting for the spot price to hit a particular number.
So yes I think that's a big part that gets our attention that the 12-month strip is added area.
We continue to look at the gas economics especially in the core Haynesville which we believe is our top return gas projects and compare those and look at obviously applying new technology longer laterals better completions to those wells and look at those compared to what we're drilling.
And that debate continues and the more gas can gain a little ground the more of those can start to compete at a return basis with opportunities we have on the oil side.
But nothing's -- we haven't really seen the price yet to have us start shifting our budget.
And then Marshall [ph] we put all of them on a sheet of paper and decide which ones have the greatest rate of return.
They all compete against each other all these plays.
LLC</strong> Right.
And in terms of the first well in Burleson County that's drilling now when would it frac? And when would it -- do you expect it to be producing? And so when should we get results on that? We'll report that at the end of second quarter.
We never report well-by-well results.
Mark may want to answer that more micro.
But unless you dig the Railroad Commission reports whatever you won't hear it from us till into second quarter.
Yes Marshall this is Mark.
That's right.
We'll have it completed and online before the second quarter results come out.
I can almost guarantee that not -- never guarantee anything in our business but I'll almost guarantee that.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit from BMO Capital Markets.
Just one more follow-up if I may.
Recognizing it's early innings between the East Texas Eagle Ford and the TMS where do you see the better field level returns today? And maybe from a different point of view where do you see the greatest resource potential? Dan this is Mark.
I'll answer at least the first part.
I'll say that right now the better individual well return is in the East Texas Eagle Ford and mainly because the cost structure is less.
The results if you look at IPs and decline curves they're almost identical in the 2 plays.
And so really you're just talking about cheaper wells in East Texas.
And as far as resource potential yes we have more acreage in the TMS.
And I think the ability to grow acreage is better in the TMS so resource potential is going to be -- going to lean that way.
Yes see I would agree with that Dan.
And in fact that's why we went to both plays.
We looked at the East Texas Eagle Ford and we said well 21 000 net acres can we get anymore? We didn't know that we could get more and we thought it would be -- derisk quicker than the TMS.
And then TMS of course we got in it which was probably the fourth quarter of 2013.
It hadn't had the results the Blades well with the Goodrich.
You hadn't had Halcón reenter the play.
You hadn't had a -- kind of a reentry or resurgence of Encana and Sanchez et cetera et cetera.
And like Mark had mentioned earlier I mean we heard a well was drilled in less than 30 days in the TMS for one of the operators.
And one of the great strengths we have which hopefully we bring to the TMS is the operation success we had in the Gulf of Mexico the 100 wells we've drilled in the Haynesville the 140 wells we drilled in the South Texas Eagle Ford.
We've been very very good at operations.
So when we expanded to the East Texas Eagle Ford we didn't think that there's a great operational risk.
It was just you had to drill enough wells to derisk it as a play.
But if you go over to the TMS we think the 2 big things you have to have to have a successful oil and gas well is one you have to have oil or gas in place.
And quite frankly in the TMS where we are we internally don't have an issue that the oil is there.
We think it's there.
So now it's a pure cost issue.
The question is can you drill and complete these wells for $10 million or $11 million in the TMS.
And we think that we'd be able to.
I was looking at the chart this morning on the South Texas Eagle Ford.
To think that you could go -- we show $11.4 million.
A lot of the wells in South Texas Eagle Ford were a lot more expensive than that.
And now we are less than $6 million.
I mean it's like 2 for 1 and it's longer laterals and more profit.
It's amazing the costs how they've come down.
And we think that same thing will happen particularly in the TMS.
So they're pretty balanced plays.
We have -- if you're 100 acres 120 acres in the Eagle Ford you got 200 250 locations in East Texas.
If you go 700 feet apart from well-to-well in the TMS you've got 500 or 600 locations.
So there are several ways to answer that question.
The key is we think we're in really good plays and obviously other operators do also.
I appreciate that.
And Jay just maybe 2 follow-ups to your statements then with -- specific to the TMS.
Recognize you wouldn't have leased in the TMS or acreage -- prospective for the TMS if you didn't believe that there is obviously first original oil in place and that it could be extracted by economic means but is there anything about the rock and the rock quality itself that still causes any concern? And then second to that and specific your statement about getting bigger in parts of Louisiana and Mississippi what is the market for leasehold today that is prospective for the TMS? Yes Dan this is Mark.
In discussing the rock quality we see very consistent rock quality across that play.
And so I guess the concern would be you have maybe a dozen data points or 15 data points over 1 million-acre 750 000-acre area which looks pretty sparse when you look at it that way but the results have been so consistent and the rock quality on logs looks so consistent that we really aren't overly concerned about quality in that play.
Now the rock quality has lent itself to some drilling problems and I do believe that Goodrich Encana have kind of figured that out and have figured how to overcome the drilling problems associated with the rubble zone or the fracture zone that they're talking about.
And that's really the -- I guess the biggest concern about rock quality is more from a mechanical point of view than from a reservoir point of view.
In terms of acreage there's still a lot of blocks available out there but they're smaller pieces.
The big blocks and the big timber companies have been leased up and there's still what we feel like a pretty substantial amount of acreage available but it's in much smaller pieces and just takes more time to put together.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Jay Allison for closing remarks.
Again I want to -- I know we had some competing calls and they're all important.
And we want to again thank you for listening to this and we continue to try to create real wealth for every single share of stock that you own as a stockholder.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Comstock Resources Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Jay Allison CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Glenn.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources Second Quarter 2014 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and downloading the quarterly results presentation.
There you will find a presentation entitled Second Quarter 2014 Results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock.
And with me this morning are Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2014 second quarter operating and financial results.
If you go to Slide 2 in our presentation you'll note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
If you go over to Slide 3 I will cast some opening comments before we go to Slide 3.
In the second quarter our operations were smooth in all regions with the exception of the delay in the East Texas Eagle Ford Mach well completion which Mark Williams will expand upon in the operations update.
Our South Texas Eagle Ford drilling program continued to perform as expected and even somewhat better since total costs continued to come down for drilling and completions.
We're extremely positive about our East Texas Eagle Ford region where we have 30 600 net acres in Burleson County.
In fact we plan on moving a second rig into the area in the fourth quarter this year.
Remember on April 2 about 4 months ago we spudded our first well in our East Texas Eagle Ford regions the Henry well which is being completed with a 30-day IP rate of 774 BOE per day.
We are completing the mock well currently and finished drilling the Flencher wells spudded the current Henry A#1 [ph] well and have built locations for our fifth well the Cobar and sixth well in our East Texas Eagle Ford region all in about 4 months' timeframe which had great results from this region.
In our TMS region we have gone from 52 200 net acres in the first quarter to 60 600 net acres as of July.
So 8 400 net acres added at low cost per acre.
We have also built 2 locations at Wilkinson County and building a location in St.
Helena Parish currently.
As of this last weekend we started moving a rig on location to spud the CRK Foster Creek well in Wilkinson County our first TMS well that should be spudded by the middle of next week.
By this time next week we should have 5 rigs running: 3 in the South Texas Eagle Ford region 1 in our East Texas Eagle Ford region and 1 in the TMS.
Things are on track and very positive for Comstock as shown on Slide 3.
Slide 3 lists some of the highlights of our second quarter.
The 102% increase in our oil production this quarter drove large increases in our revenue EBITDAX and cash flow.
Our oil and gas sales this quarter of $155.7 million are up 44% over 2013 second quarter.
EBITDAX this quarter of $121.3 million is 45% higher than 2013's second quarter.
And our cash flow from operations grew 63% this quarter to $107.5 million or $2.29 per share.
We reported net income excluding nonrecurring items of $5.9 million or $0.12 per share for the quarter.
Our outlook calls for more oil production growth for the rest of the year.
Oil made up 40% of our total production in the second quarter.
It is expected to continue to increase the rest of the year.
We anticipate that oil production will grow 88% to 103% over 2013's production driven by a successful drilling program.
Since our last update we drilled 21 successful Eagle Ford wells and put 19 Eagle Ford shale wells on production.
Our well costs keep coming down in our South Texas Eagle Ford program.
2014 well costs have averaged $6.9 million before the KKR promote which is 9% lower than last year.
We are very excited about recent development in our 2 new ventures the East Texas Eagle Ford play and the TMS play.
Our first well the Henry A#1 was very successful at an initial production rate of 1 267 BOE per day.
We continue to increase our acreage in the TMS and now have over 60 000 net acres.
We'll spud our first well there at the beginning of next week.
Now we'll let Roland review the financial results with you in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 4 we recapped our oil production growth which is driving the growth we've had in revenues cash flow and earnings this quarter.
Our oil production increased to 12 200 barrels per day this quarter and was up 1 800 barrels per day or 17% over our first quarter rate.
Oil production is 102% higher than the second quarter of 2013.
Our Eagle Ford properties in South Texas are driving almost all of this growth in oil production.
For the first 2 quarters of 2014 we're expecting -- I mean for the last 2 quarters of 2014 we're expecting our oil production to average between 12 500 to 14 400 barrels per day based on our current drilling and completion schedule.
This would represent a year-to-year 88% to 103% growth over 2003's oil production.
Slide 5 shows our natural gas production which continues to decline and was down 29% from the second quarter of last year to 111 million cubic feet per day.
With our own natural gas direct to drilling taking place this year we expect our natural gas production to decline further in 2014 and to average approximately 98 million to 102 million cubic feet per day for the remaining 6 months of this year.
Slide 6 shows our realized oil prices this quarter.
Oil price realizations in South Texas continue to improve in the second quarter 2014 but were not as strong as they were in the second quarter of 2013.
We realized $99.90 per barrel down from the $100.06 per barrel we realized in the second quarter of 2013.
Our realized price averaged 97% of the average benchmark NYMEX-WTI price.
57% of our oil production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX-WTI price of $96.60.
Our hedging program our realized price decreased to $96.27 per barrel 9% less than the after hedging oil price we averaged in the second quarter of 2013 of $105.30.
Slide 7 shows our realized oil prices for the first 6 months of 2014.
We realized $98.39 per barrel in the first 6 months of 2014 down from the $102.60 per barrel we realized in the first half of 2013.
Our realized price was 98% of the average benchmark NYMEX-WTI price.
57% of our oil production was hedged for this period at a price of $96.51 per barrel.
After our hedging program our realized price decreased to $95.78 per barrel 11% less than the after hedging oil price we averaged in the first 6 months of 2013 of $107.89.
Slide 8 shows our current oil hedges for the remainder of 2014.
We currently have 7 000 barrels per day hedged at $96.60.
This represents around half of our projected 2014 production.
We'll look to hedge our 2015 oil production when longer-term oil prices approach the current levels.
Slide 9 shows our average gas price which improved by 19% in the second quarter to $4.42 per MCF as compared to $3.71 in the second quarter of 2013.
Our realized gas price is 94% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
Our average gas price improved by 34% in the first 6 months of this year to $4.57 per Mcf as compared to $3.42 in the first 6 months of 2013.
Our realized gas price was 95% of average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the first half of 2014.
On Slide 10 we cover our oil and gas sales including the realized hedging gains or losses.
The 102% increase in oil production and improved natural gas price has offset our lower natural gas production this quarter and drove our sales up 37% over the second quarter of 2013.
Our sales increased to $152 million this quarter compared to $111 million in last year's second quarter.
Oil accounted for 71% of our total sales as compared to 52% in the second quarter of last year.
Our sales increased to $292 million in the first 6 months of this year compared to $208 million in the -- in last year's first 6 months.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX increased by 45% to $121 million from $84 million in 2013's second quarter as shown on Slide 11.
Our EBITDAX for the first 6 months of this year increased by 48% to $232 million from $156 million in 2013's first 6 months.
Cash flow increased significantly this quarter driven by the increase in oil and gas sales and lower interest costs.
On Slide 12 you can see that our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $108 million increasing 63% from cash flow of $66 million of 2013 second quarter.
Cash flow per share this quarter of $2.29 per share was also up 63% from cash flow per share of $1.41 in the second quarter of 2013.
Our operating cash flow for the first 6 months of 2014 came in at $205 million increasing 68% from cash flow of $122 million in 2013's first 6 months.
Cash flow per share for the first half of this year was $4.37 and was up 68% from the cash flow per share of $2.61 for the first half of 2013.
On Slide 13 we outline our earnings.
We reported net income of $1.9 million or $0.04 per share this quarter as compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $21.5 million or $0.45 per share in 2013 second quarter.
Unusual items in the second quarter results include a $5.8 million unrealized loss related to our oil hedges and a $300 000 impairment on our [indiscernible] gas properties.
Excluding these items we would have reported net income of $0.12 per share as compared to a recurring loss from continuing operations of $0.32 per share in 2013's second quarter.
For the first 6 months of 2014 net income was $3.1 million or $0.06 per share as compared to net loss of $46 million or $0.95 per share in 2013's first 6 months.
Unusual items in our year-to-date results include a $9.5 million unrealized loss related to our oil hedges and the impairment.
Excluding these items we would have reported net income of $0.19 per share as compared to recurring loss from continuing operations of $0.78 per share in 2013's first 6 months.
On Slide 14 we share our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter related to our continuing operations.
Total lifting costs were $1.41 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2014 as compared to $1.21 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2013.
But they also decreased from the $1.47 rate we had in the first quarter of 2014.
The higher lifting rates in 2014 are mainly due to the lower natural gas volumes that we produced and the fixed nature of much of our lifting costs.
And also the higher cost of oil production including higher production taxes that we have on our oil sales.
Production taxes were $0.39 in the quarter and our transportation costs averaged $0.19 per Mcfe in the second quarter.
Field operating costs improved to $0.83 this quarter as compared to the $0.90 rate we had in the first quarter of this year.
On Slide 15 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative costs increased to $0.41 per Mcfe in this quarter as compared to $0.33 in the second quarter 2013 due to lower -- due mainly to the lower gas production volumes plus we had about $1 million of nonrecurring costs included in G&amp;A this period.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 16.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the second quarter averaged $5.64 per Mcfe as compared to our $4.87 rate in the second quarter of 2013 and the $5.36 we averaged in the first quarter of this year.
The higher rate is due to the oil production representing a higher percentage of the company's total equivalent production.
On Slide 17 we detail our capital expenditures relating to our continuing operations.
We spent $308 million in the first 6 months of this year as compared to $133 million that we spent in 2013's first 6 months related to our continuing operations.
The $308 million in 2014 includes $50 million of leased acquisition costs primarily related to the acquisition of the additional 30% interest in our East Texas Eagle Ford shale acreage in Burleson County Texas which was completed in the first quarter.
On Slide 18 we outline the components of our 2014 capital budget which remain unchanged from the first quarter.
We're currently on track to stay within budget for our drilling and completion costs.
We expect to spend about $510 million in 2014 on our development exploration projects and another $55 million for lease acquisition activity which would include the first quarter acquisitions.
Slide 19 recaps our balance sheet in the second quarter.
We have $4 million of cash on hand and $975 million of total debt on June 30.
Debt represented about 51% of our total book capitalization.
Our borrowing base under our $1 billion bank credit facility is currently at $700 million giving us unused availability of $420 million.
And now I'll hand it over to Mark Williams to review our drilling results and operations.
Thank you Roland.
Slide 20 shows the location of the wells we have drilled in our Eagleville field in South Texas in the first 6 months of 2014 along with our 2013 drilled wells.
We drilled 43 horizontal oil wells 29.6 net in the first 6 months and had 2 wells or 1.6 net wells drilling at June 30.
We had drilled 158 wells so far on our South Texas Eagle Ford acreage including 75 drilled in 2013 and 43 drilled so far this year.
Our wells have had an average per well initial production rate of 728 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our 30-day rates have averaged 79% of the 24-hour rate and our 90-day rates have averaged 67% of the 24-hour rates.
Slide 21 compares our 2014 completions to our prior year completions.
Our average 24-hour IP rates were lower this year at 685 BOE per day as compared to 780 BOE per day in 2013.
Much of this was due to wells we drilled on our RTH lease which had short laterals due to our acreage configuration.
Excluding these short lateral wells our average 24-hour rates were much closer to 2013's average at 743 BOE per day.
On Slide 22 we tracked the cost of our Eagle Ford wells which have decreased considerably since we started drilling in August of 2010.
In 2010 our first 2 wells averaged 11.4 million dollars.
Cost have been reduced to an average of $7.6 million per well in 2013.
Faster drill times lower well stimulation costs and more efficient field operations account for much of this savings.
The wells drilled in recent years have had much longer laterals and larger stimulation treatments despite those lower costs.
In the first half of 2014 we reduced our average well costs to $6.9 million.
Our joint venture further enhances our return as the effective average well cost in 2014 to Comstock on an 8H basis improves to $5.9 million when the KKR spud fee is considered.
On Slide 23 we have that East Texas Eagle Ford acreage in Burleson County.
We now have 30 600 net acres in this emerging play.
Slide 24 shows recent activity in the vicinity of our East Texas Eagle Ford acreage.
Our first well the Henry A #1 located in the center of our acreage had an initial production rate of 1 267 BOE per day.
The well averaged 774 BOE per day for its first 30 days of production.
We are completing our second well the Mach A #1 which is taking longer than anticipated as we are making repairs to the casing which was damaged during the frac treatment.
We've recently finished drilling the third well the Flencher A #1 which we drilled in 18.5 days.
This is a substantial improvement over the first 2 wells.
We have spud the fourth well the Currington A #1.
And as Jay said earlier we have our fifth location built and ready.
On Slide 25 we show our acreage in the emerging Tuscaloosa Marine Shale play.
We had 58 100 net acres at the end of the second quarter in what we believe is the most prospective part of this play.
Including lease activity completed in July we are now at 60 600 net acres.
Our acreage is located in Wilkinson and Amite counties in Mississippi and East Feliciana and St.
Helena Parishes in Louisiana.
The next slide shows the recent TMS wells including the very successful Goodrich Crosby well in Wilkinson County.
Our first well which will be spud next week will be located just north of the Crosby well in Wilkinson County in Mississippi.
I will now hand it back over to Jay.
Perfect.
Again Roland thank you.
And Mark thank you.
Everybody go to Slide 27.
I'll summarize our outlook for the rest of the year.
This quarter's results showed continued progress as we transition to a more balanced company by growing our oil operations.
We continue to hold off on drilling natural gas wells until we can have returns on those projects that are competitive with our oil opportunities.
Strong growth in our oil production has more than offset the natural gas production declines that we're facing currently which is evidenced by our strong growth that we had in the quarter in revenues and cash flow.
Oil made up 40% of our production this quarter and we expect that to continue to increase over the last half of this year.
All of our operated wells we plan to drill this year will be oil wells.
We are expanding our inventory of oil drilling locations by acquiring acreage in 2 emerging oil plays.
And we're excited by the level of activity in both of these plays as offset operators have had successful wells near our acreage.
And we have now drilled our own successful well in the very middle of our new play in Burleson County.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
Our natural gas properties in the Haynesville provide us substantial growth opportunity natural gas prices are improved.
We have over 1 000 undrilled locations on that acreage.
We will continue to have a strong balance sheet and to support our continued growth with $420 million of liquidity as Roland stated.
For the rest of the call we'll take questions only from research analysts who follow the stock.
So Glenn I'll turn it back over to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions on the East Texas Eagle Ford.
One we've seen the rig count pick up and we've seen a lot of good successful wells there.
Is there a lot of acreage to be captured or is this all buying kind of big packages now? And then 2 Mark can you maybe repeat what happened with the second well? I kind of missed that.
I'll comment on the acreage.
We picked up 200- to 300-acres Brian.
And we -- again we look for acreage all the time as some of the companies I mean Apache I think recently said they're going to have 10 rigs busy there.
That's a good thing for everybody.
Alcon has 3 or 4 rigs.
Clayton has 2 or 3 rigs.
So it is busy.
There's 15 or 20-plus rigs active in the area.
Some of the results had been as good as others.
So I think that to answer your question to get what we call Tier 1 acreage we ended up paying around 4 000 acres.
You're going to probably going to double triple or quadruple that to pick up acreage now.
I mean from what we understand that's why we haven't picked up acreage.
But it's going to be -- it's going to be a lot more expensive than what we picked up 3 or 4 months ago.
So that's a good thing for the industry.
And if we think we can drill all 100-acre spacing we have 300-plus locations and we're going to be in good shape there.
We do attempt to pick up more acreage but we're not willing to pay up materially for it at this moment.
In South Texas again we've added a few acres there not many.
We'll probably have 100 drill sites at year end with the program that we're on.
We've not been able to pick up really any Tier 1 acres there.
In the TMS we did pick up a little over 8 000 acres $500 or so per acre where we're adding acreage.
And at the rate we're going there we might get to our 80 000 net acre goal by year end.
What we've told you in the public [ph] is hopefully we'll add 4 000 or 5 000 net acres per quarter but we're on a good glide path to get that acreage.
So now I go back to Mark on that -- is it Mark Williams or Mark Williams? We'll go back to Mark Williams on the Mach well.
Yes Brian it's Mark.
What we did on that well is we frac-ed it.
All fracs went well 17 stages about 9 million pounds.
And when we went in to drill out the frac plugs with coil tubing we encountered a tight spot above the perforations.
So we have analyzed that spot.
And it's a deformity in the casing that makes it too small for the mill to go through.
So we have to go in and you wring that out get it big enough to get our equipment through it so we can get the frac plugs out and put the well on production.
So that's what we have scheduled right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then one final one and maybe for you Roland.
I guess I would have thought we would have seen the gas production declines flatten a little bit.
But it still seems to be pretty steep.
Can you maybe comment on that? I think the gas -- we said the gas is going to decline and I think it's within our expectations.
I mean there is absolutely no workovers or drilling or any operational support.
So I think you're seeing just kind of a pure decline right now.
We're in a high 35% 38% decline last year.
Brian this year looks like 25% to 30%.
I mean that what you really see here is purity in a pure play like the Haynesville or any of the gas plays.
If you don't have any recompletions or new wells you can see a steep decline.
And that's what -- we're the mirror image of that as Roland said.
[indiscernible] with our drilling programs coming from South Texas so...
Yes.
There's no supplemental gas.
The great thing about our in South Texas and the East Texas and the TMS they're all 85% 90% 96% oil.
Research Division</strong> And so if I look at '15 versus '14 I mean would you expect another 20% to 25% decline without -- I know you haven't announced the budget.
There's no more drilling.
We -- Would it be as low as 15% or would the declines be similar to what we're seeing this year at 25% or so? We haven't really given guidance.
I don't want to give guidance on gas without a budget or anything for 2015.
I mean as the wells get older the decline is going to soften as we're seeing right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Jay I think you mentioned a 80 000-acre TMS target in April to add for the $5 000 an acre also the $500 cost.
Where have you been able to add those 8 000 or 9 000 acres since the end of first quarter? Is it -- you're able to add any up in Wilkinson County or is more of it down in St.
Helena and East Feliciana? Or any more color on where? You can't have that type acreage anywhere near Wilkinson.
We are going to add a lot in Wilkinson and fill it in.
Most of acreage has been -- fill in acreage? Yes.
And so it is on the map.
So I mean the new map has been updated.
But because it was pretty much maybe additional interest in acres that we didn't have 100% of the tracks or just additional fill-in acreage.
That's really been our goal is to -- So there's not any new areas at all.
It is just all contiguous acreage to what we owned before.
It's not a new big block of acreage.
To get a big block of acreage in that core area where activity is you're going to pay up for that.
We're not paying up for big blocks.
I mean 33 000 net acres at Wilkinson.
I mean you don't find that type of acreage we don't available right now.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> From eyeballing the maps last night it looked like more of it was down on the Louisiana side than the Mississippi side and...
That's correct in the -- for the first 6 months and then maybe next you'll see more in Wilkinson in the third quarter because I don't want to disclose on there.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
and it sounds like the rig is moving on to location so you'll spud next week.
When you look at your -- the location you're building down in Louisiana is there -- are there any offset results near the location you're building down in Louisiana that we could look to as we look forward even past your first TMS well? This is Mark.
I guess it will be about halfway between the Goodrich Blades well and that recent [indiscernible] well.
Not neither one of them are real close it's just south -- it's just a little bit south of the Encana Anderson wells.
So I think there'll be more activity and more results over the next quarter or 2 in that area than there have been so far.
But those are the -- near spuds right now.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And is the plan still to drill 2 or 3 wells this year? Or the fact that the rigs moving in a little bit late does that limit how many wells you'll end up drilling? Well as to keep that rig very busy.
I mean with the first 2 of wells in Wilkinson in lieu to Louisiana.
And then really our goal is to continue to keep it busy in 2015.
I think we'll have 2 TD-ed by the end of the year.
So our count would be down to 2 and the third one would be drilling at the end of the year.
That's kind of how it's budgeted right now or projected.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Mark over in the Eagle Ford thanks for the description on the Mach well.
But looking at where the Currington is and the Flencher it looks like a lot of your activities is really more focused on your oil window.
Any color in terms of where the fifth and sixth locations are being built? I guess I'm just trying to get direction in terms of how far to the south and east do you think you'll test by the end of the year.
Is this year really focused more on the oil side? We were really just testing our acreage all the way across.
So if you look on the map the fifth dot a little further to east just east of the Henry is the Cobar [ph].
That would be our fifth well.
And then we've got 2 or 3 other locations working at least one of which will be south of that.
And I'm not sure which.
Just depends which one we'll have titled on and units formed and locations built in time.
So we're a little bit flexible after that fifth one right now.
But we plan to test all of our acreage pretty methodically and see -- make sure we know what to expect over the whole acreage position.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> The 2 rigs you'll be going to is that a thought of taking another one out of the South Texas Eagle Ford and moving it to East Texas Eagle Ford so you stay at 5 rigs? And if so is that the kind of activity level that you think you may -- that you think this field supports? Or do you think there's future acceleration opportunity as we look to 2015? This is Mark.
I think we'll continue to accelerate this play as we go forward and prove it up and get really get it set up for full field development which we're not set up for yet.
But yes we're planning on staying at 5.
We're moving a rig from South Texas do this play in the fourth quarter.
And that would be our goal would be to -- well we don't have a budget for 2015 but our goal would be to accelerate this play as we're ready to.
Yes right now it's a 5-rig program for East Texas or South Texas Eagle Ford rigs.
So 5-rig Eagle Ford program.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> 5? I -- Okay.
I thought it was 4 there and 1 in the TMS.
4 right.
Yes.
But we'll end up -- it'll -- what we're looking for now we've got 3 rigs right now in South Texas and 1 of course in East Texas.
We'll move 1 rig from South Texas to East Texas.
But then I think as 2015 progresses we will probably add another rig.
That wouldn't happen till '15 though.
One will be busy in the TMS.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Schmitz with Ladenburg.
Research Division</strong> Jay I think you mentioned with success you're going to have more than 300 locations in the East Texas Eagle Ford.
Could you remind us how many locations you have left in the South Texas Eagle Ford? And just following up on that last question how do you see the South Texas Eagle Ford program in '15 and '16 relative to this year from a magnitude standpoint? With the program that we have this year which is roughly 45 net wells in South Texas we'd have about 100 locations left in South Texas.
And if you look at the 30 600 net acres we have in East Texas Eagle Ford 100-acre spacing it's about 300 locations.
What our goal really is we're kind of issued the second withdrawn on that earlier.
Our goal is to have this maybe 4- to 5-rig program in our Eagle Ford play.
I mean right now we have 3 rigs in South Texas and again we have a rig in East Texas.
We have a 4-rig program.
We might end up with a 5-rig program sometime in 2015.
Right now it is a 4-rig program.
We'll move those 4 rigs kind of around in those 2 plays.
A lot of it will depend upon Mark and operations and our frac commitments and our drilling commitments.
All of the rigs that we have today can either drill the South Texas East Texas or they can drill in the TMS.
So we're trying to make the rig flexible and we're trying to make the completions flexible.
And a lot of it will be just locations.
And as Mark had mentioned earlier we want to make sure our land is far enough ahead of the drilling program so we don't start a big program in East Texas and then we'll catch up with land.
I think the problems were if we are going to have good problems and particularly since the results that we've had in our East Texas Eagle Ford program have been good.
And we're encouraged with all the offset operators being very active and having good results so...
Research Division</strong> 2 follow-ups.
The 100 locations at South Texas Eagle Ford that was the start of the year or is that after you drilled the 45 net wells this year? After this year.
We said initially we thought we have about 300 locations in South Texas.
By the end of this year with the drilling program we have this year we'll have drilled about 200 locations.
Like Mark said we drilled about 158 well so far.
We'll end up with about 200 wells being drilled from inception in our South Texas program by year end we think we've got about 100 locations left.
And we'll high grade [ph] those locations.
That's what we think right now.
Research Division</strong> And one last.
What are your current thoughts on adding oil hedges for next year? As our goal to add some oil hedges for next year we'll probably try to have those in place by the time we put our budget in place.
So I think the way the oil market has been working so backwardated it's been better not to jump into early.
We had 50% to 60% of our oil hedged.
And then as Roland said the last 2 quarters of this year we'll have about 50% of our production hedged.
Yes that's our goal for next year.
And that is our goal for 2015.
Nothing more than that yes.
And you didn't ask will but we still don't have any hedges for natural gas because we're not drilling any gas wells.
Your next question comes from the line of Kim Pacanovsky with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> First a question on East Texas.
Your 30-day rate on your wells was 774.
That's about 61% of IP.
I'm just curious if that's fits your type curve? Yes Kim this is Mark.
The 774 probably fits our type curve better than the IP did.
That well for whatever reason when we opened it up it responded more positively than we expected on the IP.
And then it kind of settled down and lined out more as you would expect it to act.
So the 774 that's above our type curve.
But the well has been behaving.
Since the first couple of weeks it's been behaving much more normally is what I'd say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you had mentioned that on the third well the 18.5 days were substantially better than the first 2 wells.
What was the average for the first 2 wells? Kim the first one I believe was 40.
Because we drilled the pilot hole and [indiscernible] LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That one doesn't count.
Let's say the second well? The second well was like 34 35 days.
We had a lot of trouble in the intermediate hole with loss returns.
Really unusual off the chalk [ph] is going to be that way in that area.
But the second -- the third well and the fourth well have been much more normal in the chalk.
That well I don't know we were just next to a big fracture or something.
It just gave us a little trouble.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then moving on to the TMS.
Goodrich with their Beech Grove well got lower than I guess anticipated IP rate there.
And they have at least preliminarily attributed that to a lack of natural fracturing.
But they had seen surrounding it of the vertical data showed that there was sufficient natural fracturing.
So I'm just wondering -- on the next well that you'll be drilling down on Louisiana what do you see as far as fracturing is concerned from nearby vertical wells? And could you also tell us what depth and contour that well will sit on? I will answer these question for us Kim.
I think the contour's about 12 000 feet.
I believe.
I don't have a contour map with me but what I recall that's about right.
I think these fractures are going to come and go.
And you just don't -- a vertical well doesn't seam any natural fractures.
First off you get a little indication on the logs.
But if they're older vintage logs they're very difficult to tell.
And if there is a core within the area then your coring a 6- or 8-inch diameter vertical hole you're just not going to see many of the fractures.
We're planning to -- right now anyway we're planning to core that well so we should get better data.
And plus all the vintage logs that will help us.
But I really think the natural fracturing issue is going to be kind of a location to location issue not more of a regional type issue.
LLC Research Division</strong> And it will be great if you guys could show your future locations on your map on your slide deck.
Well they're not ready yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just sticking with the TMS I'm wondering if you could provide any color around maybe what the AFE on that first well is going to be.
An any color you can give on the completion design and how you're planning to land it relative to the rubble zone? Brad this is Mark.
As far as the AFE I think it was just over $14 million which includes a pilot hole and a full suite of new vintage logs to capture as much data as we can on that well.
We do not plan to core that well because the Crosby well just across the way it was cored.
So it's kind of getting redundant on information if we do that.
Completion our plan is to copy the Crosby well that's the best well in the field and it's right adjacent to us so we will do everything.
Completion-wise it will be very very similar to that well and just to prove that we can reproduce those results.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just looking at CapEx for the year.
Obviously if you take the first half run rate that would end up being well above the budget.
Is there cost savings that you're expecting in the second half of the year or less acreage spending? Well if you look at the CapEx I mean if you look more at the second quarter stand alone I mean the first quarter had a lot of extra costs in it as went over at that call.
So I think if you look at this quarter this is more -- it's more closer to what we'll spend in the third and fourth quarter.
Maybe a little under.
Those will be a little bit higher but the 6 months is really skewed by the first quarter where we had an acquisition in there the Burleson acreage and we also had a lot of carryover completion costs.
There we spent $188 million in the first quarter $120 million in the second quarter.
So yes we're tracking kind of right on our budget for drilling and completion.
For acreage it's very opportunistic-driven so it's impossible to budget.
And so that area potential opportunities we could see more opportunities spend a little bit more on acreage or we could see less.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick South Eagle Ford one.
You featured 3 outperforming Eagle Ford wells.
I was just wondering was that outperformance due to lateral length or geology or both? Let me thumb back there a little bit Jeffrey.
which one is it? Inc.</strong> Like 850s or maybe it was around an 850 average or something like that.
Those wells are fairly long lateral but that's just in a good performing area kind of in the middle of our acreage.
And so those are probably -- of the group of wells we drilled this quarter that's probably the best acreage in the area.
Cortez wells and [indiscernible].
That's just kind of in the core of our acreage and it's been a good producing area.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's good.
Going to the East Texas Eagle Ford doesn't seem like anybody's drilling kind of say window wells yet.
Do you guys have any plans to do that any appetite to test the condensate? Jeffrey this is Mark.
We plan to test all of our acreage.
The southernmost acreage we believe is in the volatile oil window not in the condensate window but we won't know for sure until we drill it and test it.
Inc.</strong> I mean is it -- is that kind of a Southern acreage test in mind for maybe sometime in 2015? We should drill the wells -- Jeffrey I think we -- we're planning to drill a well near the end of this year as we work our way south.
But I don't know if it will be right at end of the year or if it will roll over into early '15.
Just depends when we can get the acreage and the units put together.
Yes.
We'll probably drill one year-end or first of next year.
Inc.</strong> Quickly when we -- you -- based on the data you've got when you compare the East Texas Eagle Ford and the TMS and you compare the decline curves in each play do you see a lot of similarity? Or are there any discernible differences between the 2? Jeffrey this is Mark again.
We see a lot of similarity between all 3 of the plays between the South Texas Eagle Ford the East Texas Eagle Ford and the TMS.
I think if you look at some of the properties the thickness the pressure the age of the rock.
They're all very similar.
There's some differences in gas oil ratio that may affect it a little bit.
But all these horizontal plays have been following a fairly normal -- I wouldn't say normal.
I would say a fairly standard decline curve.
Inc.</strong> And the last question I'd like to ask.
The second quarter '14 Encana talked about the Haynesville re-completions that costs $1 million per.
And they were IP-ing at an average of 400 -- 4 million cubic feet a day.
They say they're the highest return wells in their portfolio including condensate oil wells and their effort is ramping up.
I'm just wondering have you heard about this? Are you keeping an eye on it? Do you have any potential interest in trying anything similar? Jeffrey this is Mark.
We have heard about it.
We're monitoring the results of both Encana and EXCO.
It's so new that there's not much public information other than just what's they're saying.
But yes we'll monitor it.
We don't have any money in our budget for this year to do that.
And we look at it hard for 2015's budget if the results hold up.
At this time we have no further questions.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Allison for the closing remarks.
All right.
It was always -- Glenn thank you and -- for hosting the call.
And we want to thank all the shareholders that followed the stock for a long time.
And we thank you for your time that you spent today.
Hopefully we [indiscernible] you in detail.
And we're working daily to create value for the shareholders so thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 3 2014 Comstock Resources Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Matthew and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Allison Chairman and CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Matthew thank you and thank you for all the stakeholders that are joining us.
I know there's a lot of competing conference calls during this hour so thank you.
I've got a few opening comments before we go through roughly 26 pages of slides where we'll report our results for the quarter.
We acknowledge that oil is going through an ugly cycle right now and we don't nor does anyone else know when or where the cycle will bottom.
So before Roland and Mark report let me make some observations about Comstock.
First we are pleased to report strong growth in oil production which drove grow revenue and cash flow growth for the quarter.
Our [ph] shale drilling program in South Texas continues to be successful and we are now derisking our 31 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford shale in East Texas.
In fact we're extremely pleased that Apache which has 8 rigs currently active in the play may significantly increase their rig count.
And Anadarko along with partner KKR about 10 days ago announcing that they may drill as many as 500 wells in a region that we're in.
And we see Clayton Williams at Halcon continuing their drilling programs in the Eagle Ford shale and East Texas.
All of that is good news for Comstock because we believe our 300-plus drilling locations in the region will be materially derisked earlier due to all the aggressive drilling in the Eagle Ford shale in East Texas.
Our goal to you as a stakeholder -- we have several.
We'll put them before you before we go over the results.
One we want to keep a low-cost structure; two hopefully increase our EURs and IRRs of Eagle Ford wells with new completion designs Mark Williams will talk about in a moment; three to test our natural gas growth opportunities with improved completion technologies in the Haynesville where we have 6 TCF reserve potential and over 1 000 drilling locations; four which may be more important than the others is to maintain a strong balance sheet in 2015 as we have today.
We have about $400 million in liquidity today and we expect to target our 2015 drilling program close to operating cash flow.
And we need to note that we wouldn't like to but we can manage our drilling obligations in 2015 we think with 2 rigs.
Lastly we want to continue to provide the shareholder with return by maintaining our $0.50 per share annual dividend.
When we put the dividend in place May of 2013 we had very little oil producing and the natural gas was about the $3 range.
Today we have increased our oil production significantly and the natural gas price is about $4.
So with that let me go to Slide 1.
And welcome to the Comstock Resources Third Quarter 2014 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
You could view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to the website at www.comstockresources.com and downloading the quarterly results presentation.
There you'll find a presentation titled Third Quarter 2014 Results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock.
With me this morning are Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Williams our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2014 third quarter operating and financial results.
Slide 2.
Please refer to Slide 2 in our presentation and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities law.
While we believe the expectations of such statements to be reasonable there could be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Now our 2014 third quarter highlights which is Slide 3.
Slide 3 lists some of the highlights in our third quarter.
The 78% increase in our oil production this quarter drove significant increases in our revenues EBITDAX and cash flow.
Our oil and gas sales this quarter of $145 million are up 30% over 2013's third quarter.
EBITDAX this quarter of $114 million is 40% higher than 2013's third quarter and our cash flow from operations grew 60% this quarter to $101 million or $2.10 per share.
We reported a small net loss excluding nonrecurring items of $2.5 million or $0.05 per share for the quarter.
Oil made up 41% of our total production in the third quarter and is expected to continue to increase the rest of the year.
We anticipate that oil production will grow 83% to 91% over 2013 production driven by our successful drilling program.
In the first 3 quarters of this year we drilled 59 successful South Texas Eagle Ford wells and put 80 on production.
Our well costs keep coming down in our South Texas Eagle Ford program.
2014 well costs have averaged $6.7 million before the KKR promote which is 12% lower than last year's.
We're very excited about recent developments in our 2 new ventures the East Texas Eagle Ford and the TMS.
Both areas have been successfully offset -- have seen successfully offset activity and have been derisked considerably since the beginning of the year.
We feel we are back on track in the East Texas Eagle Ford after our second and third wells had completion problems which Mark will review in a moment.
Our fourth well the Curington was recently put on production at around 1 000 barrels of oil per day.
We continue to increase our acreage position in the Tuscaloosa Marine shale and now have over 70 000 net acres.
We're currently drilling the lateral of our first TMS well.
Now I'll let Roland review the financial results in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 4 we recap our oil production growth which has been driving the growth that we've had in revenues cash flow and earnings this year so far.
Our oil production increased to 12 200 barrels per day this quarter which is flat to the second quarter rate.
We've fallen behind in our new ventures area given the completion setbacks in Burleson County and then we've had higher-than-expected shut-in activity and especially in the month of September for offset frac activity on 14 wells.
Our oil production has increased 78% from the third quarter of 2013.
The last quarter of this year we're expecting oil production to average between 11 500 barrels to 13 500 barrels per day and that rate will be very dependent on the timing of completions that we have planned for the fourth quarter.
Overall this would give us 83% to 91% growth over last year.
Slide 5 shows our natural gas production which continues to decline and was down 29% from the third quarter last year to 105 million cubic feet per day.
With no natural gas-directed drilling taking place this year we expect our natural gas production to decline further into the fourth quarter and to average around 96 million to 101 million per day.
Slide 6 shows our realized oil prices this quarter.
Oil price realizations as compared to WTI continued to improve in the third quarter of 2014 but were not as strong as they were last year.
We realized $95.92 per barrel down from the $104.83 per barrel we realized in the third quarter of 2013.
Our realized price averaged 99% of the average benchmark at NYMEX-WTI price; 56% of our oil production was hedged in the quarter at a NYMEX-WTI price of $96.60 per barrel.
So after our hedging program our realized price decreased slightly to $95.59 per barrel 4% less than our after-hedging oil price we averaged in the third quarter of 2013 of $99.20.
Slide 7 shows our realized oil prices for the first 9 months of 2014.
We realized $97.51 per barrel in the first 9 months of 2014 down from the $103.47 that we realized in the first 9 months of 2013.
Our realized price average 98% of the average benchmark NYMEX-WTI price.
And 57% of that production was hedged at a WTI price of $96.54.
So after hedging our realized price decreased to $95.71 8% less than our after-hedging price we averaged in the first 9 months of last year of $104.49.
Slide 8 shows our current oil hedges that are outstanding for the last quarter of 2014 where we have 7 000 barrels per day hedged at $96.60.
This represents around half of our projected production.
We'll look to add some hedges for 2015 maybe for oil or gas depending on how we come up with our 2015 drilling program but right now we don't have any positions in place for next year.
Slide 9 shows our average gas price which improved by 16% in the third quarter to $3.85 per MCF as compared to $3.33 in the third quarter of 2013.
Our realized price was 95% of the average NYMEX Henry Hub gas price for the quarter.
Our average gas price improved by 28% in the first 9 months of this year to $4.34 per MCF as compared to $3.39 in the first 9 months of 2013.
Our realized gas price was also 95% of the Henry Hub NYMEX gas price.
On Slide 10 we cover our oil and gas sales which includes realized hedging gains or losses.
The 78% increase in oil production and improved natural gas prices offset lower natural gas production this quarter and drove sales up 34% over the third quarter of 2013.
Our sales increased to $145 million this quarter as compared to $108 million in last year's third quarter.
Oil was 74% of total sales this quarter as compared to 58% in the third quarter of last year.
Our sales increased 38% to $437 million for the first 9 months of this year as compared to $316 million in last year's first 9 months.
Our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization and exploration expense and other noncash expenses or EBITDAX increased by 40% to $114 million this quarter from $82 million in 2013's third quarter as shown on Slide 11.
Our EBITDAX for the first 9 months of this year increased by 45% to $346 million from $238 million in 2013's first 9 months.
Cash flow has increased significantly this quarter driven by the increase in oil sales and lower interest cost.
On Slide 12 you see our operating cash flow for the quarter came in at $101 million increasing 60% from cash flow of $63 million in 2013's third quarter.
Cash flow per share this quarter of $2.10 was also up 60% from cash flow per share of $1.31 in the third quarter of 2013.
Our operating cash flow for the first 9 months of 2014 came in at $306 million increasing 65% from cash flow of $185 million in 2013's first 9 months.
On Slide 13 we outline the earnings reported for the quarter and for the first 9 months.
We reported a net loss of $1.9 million or $0.04 per share this quarter as compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $24 million or $0.52 per share in 2013's third quarter.
Unusual items in our third quarter results include a $12.4 million unrealized gain related to our oil hedges and $11.4 million charge to write off the Mach well.
Excluding these items we would've reported a net loss of $0.05 per share as compared to the recurring loss from continuing operations of $0.40 per share in 2013's third quarter.
For the first 9 months of 2014 net income was $1.2 million or $0.02 per share as compared to a net loss of $70.1 million or $1.45 per share in 2013's first 9 months.
Unusual items in our year-to-date results were a $2.9 million unrealized gain related to our oil hedges and the impairment and the dry hold costs.
Excluding these items we would've reported net income of $0.14 per share as compared to a recurring loss from continuing operations of $1.15 per share in 2013's first 9 months.
On Slide 14 we show our lifting cost per Mcfe produced by quarter related to our continuing operations.
Our total lifting costs were $1.55 per Mcfe this quarter as compared to $1.24 in the third quarter of 2013 and have increased from the $1.41 rate we had in the second quarter of 2014.
The increase in 2014 is mainly due to higher ad valorem taxes and other field operating cost on the increased oil production we have.
Production taxes were $0.39 per Mcfe.
Our transportation costs averaged $0.19 in the third quarter.
These were the same rates that we had in the second quarter.
On Slide 15 we show our cash G&amp;A per Mcfe produced by quarter excluding stock-based compensation.
Our general and administrative costs improved to $0.31 per Mcfe produced this quarter as compared to $0.41 in the second quarter of 2014.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization per Mcfe produced is shown on Slide 16.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the third quarter averaged $6.10 per Mcfe as compared to our $4.93 rate in the third quarter of 2013 and the $5.64 rate we averaged in the second quarter of this year.
The higher rate is due to the oil production representing a higher percentage of our -- of the total -- of the company's total equivalent production.
As we're able to add some proved reserves on the new plays we hope to see this rate start coming down.
On Slide 17 we detail our capital expenditures related to our continuing operations.
We spent $446 million in the first 9 months of this year as compared to $249 million that we spent in 2013's first 9 months on our continuing operations.
The $446 million includes $71 million of lease acquisition costs including the acquisition of that 30% interest in the East Texas Eagle Ford shale acreage in Burleson County that we completed in the first quarter.
On Slide 18 we outline the components of our 2014 capital budget.
We currently are on track to stay within our budget on drilling and completion costs and we expect to spend about $505 million in total on all our development and our exploration drilling.
We now expect to spend about $75 million for all our lease acquisition activity including the first quarter acquisitions.
Slide 19 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the third quarter.
We had $6 million in cash on hand and about $1 billion of total debt at September 30.
Debt represents about 51% of our total book capitalization.
The borrowing base under our $1 billion bank credit facility is currently at $700 million giving us availability of $395 million.
I'll now hand it over to Mark Williams to go over the operations and drilling activity.
Thanks Roland.
Slide 20 shows our South Texas acreage and our 2013 and 2014 drilling activity.
We have completed 181 wells so far on our South Texas Eagle Ford acreage through October of this year.
Our wells have had an average per-well initial production rate of 736 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Wells reported this quarter averaged 792 BOE per day higher than last year's average of 780 BOE per day.
Slide 21 illustrates our well cost history in our South Texas Eagle Ford program.
The cost of our Eagle Ford wells have decreased considerably since we started drilling in August of 2010.
In 2010 our first 2 wells averaged $11.4 million.
So far this year we reduced our average well cost to $6.7 million.
Faster drilling times lower well stimulation costs and more efficient field operations account for much of the savings.
Our joint venture further enhances our return as the effective average well cost in 2014 to Comstock on an 8-age [ph] basis improves to $5.7 million when that KKR spud fee is considered.
Our next group of completions we will reverse this trend with larger stimulation treatments.
The larger frac jobs which involve more stages more proppant and more fluid will increase costs by 20% to 25%.
We expect to see improved IP rates and EURs of up to 30% based on this change.
The net result could be up to a 50% improvement in well rate of return.
Slide 22 shows the acreage we have accumulated in Burleson County targeting the Eagle Ford shale.
We are up to 31 000 net acres in this play.
Slide 23 shows recent activity in the vicinity of our East Texas Eagle Ford acreage where we are currently operating 3 drilling rigs.
Our first well the Henry A #1 located in the center of our acreage had an initial production rate of 1 267 BOE per day.
Since then we've had 2 completion setbacks on the next 2 wells.
The casing in the Mach A #1H was damaged beyond repair during completion and we had to abandon this well.
In the Flencher well only 2 645 feet of the total 7 449-foot lateral is producing due to location restriction in the lateral.
With the shorter lateral this well had an initial daily production rate of 327 BOE per day.
On a per-foot basis this well is performing in line with other wells on the field.
We recently completed our fourth well the Curington which was drilled to a total depth of 16 620 feet with a 7 095-foot lateral.
This well had an initial daily production rate of 996 BOE per day of which 83% is oil.
We are currently completing the Kovar which is our fifth well and the frac was completed on November 2 and we're currently drilling frac loads.
Our sixth well the Ozell A #1H has been drilled and is scheduled for completion in November.
We are also moving the larger stimulation treatments in this area with more stages proppant and fluid.
The Ozell will be the first with the new design.
While the new design will increase costs we expect higher production and improved IRRs here also.
On Slide 24 we outline our current lease position on the TMS.
Our ownership is up to 71 000 net acres at the end of the third quarter.
We would -- we should end the year with over 75 000 net acres in this play.
Slide 25 shows recent TMS wells including the very successful Goodrich Crosby well in Wilkinson County.
Recent results continue to be encouraging and are illustrating the consistency of this play.
Our first well the CMR Foster Creek 28-40 #1H is currently drilling just north of the Goodrich Crosby well in Wilkinson County Mississippi.
We have drilled approximately 4 500 feet of the planned 7 500-foot lateral.
We plan to drill a second well near the Crosby well and then start the Meeks 56 #1H in St.
Helena Parish in Louisiana around the end of this year.
I'll now turn it back over to Jay.
All right.
Thank you Mark.
And also thank you Roland.
On Slide 26 I'll summarize our outlook for the rest of the year.
Growth in our oil production has more than offset the natural gas production declines that we have seen.
Our oil made up 41% of our production this quarter as expected to increase 83% to 91% over last year.
We're expanding our inventory of oil drilling locations by acquiring acreage in 2 emerging oil plays.
We're excited about the level of activity in both of those plays as offset operators have had successful wells near our acreage and we've now drilled our own successful wells in the middle of the new play in Burleson County.
We think we've added over 300 locations in our inventory in Burleson County.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
In fact our new completion designs as kind of Mark alluded to for our Eagle Ford wells should increase our EURs and our IRRs.
Larger fracs can result in 30% higher IP rates and 20% higher EURs.
The result is a potential for a 50% improvement in the well's IRR which could help offset lower realization of oil prices.
Improved completion technology opens the door for our natural gas properties in the Haynesville.
We have to have good returns even in the current natural gas pricing environment.
The longer laterals and better fracs allow these wells to have much higher IRRs.
We also have the potential to refrac our 135 producing Haynesville wells which could increase gas production for a small capital investment.
The most important message we want to deliver today is that we will maintain a strong balance sheet rolling into 2015 with the current oil and gas price uncertainty.
We have around $400 million of current liquidity and we'll be targeting our 2015 drilling program to stay close to the cash flow that we will generate.
We have a lot of flexibility with our assets and can manage drilling obligations in 2015 with only a 2-rig program.
Lastly again we currently plan to maintain our $0.50 annual dividend.
So for the rest of the call we'll take questions only from the research analysts who follow the stock.
So Matthew I'll turn it back over to you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Don Crist of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Starting in East Texas Jay can you talk about the current well cost? I mean obviously we know what the Mach costs with the write-down.
But can you talk about what the Curington costs and what EURs you're are using for that and what you think that will go to with the enhanced completion? Mark -- yes I'll let Mark start it.
And then Don I'll finish it.
Yes Don this is Mark.
Our type curve has not changed for the area.
We don't have enough information yet really to make a change to the type curves.
I think our original type curve was around 400 MBO and that's kind of what we're basing our economics on and our decision-making on.
As far as well costs our first 2 wells were pilot holes.
Those costs you can kind of throw out the window with all the science and learning curve and everything else.
Our Curington I think should run around 9.5 million which is kind of what we expected these individual wells to cost with their -- with the original frac design.
I think the Flencher was actually a little bit less than that even probably average maybe in the 9 million range on those.
And then the frac design change in this area is not quite as dramatic as it is in South Texas.
So we're probably looking at about $1 million to $1.5 million increase in the frac design cost.
And Don we've -- again we've -- I think we're on our ninth well now in that East Texas Eagle Ford program.
I know we're drilling on Platsach [ph] With 2 rigs.
We have 3 rigs active there today.
We've got a Helmerich &amp; Payne rig that's kind of the roving rig and it's drilling on all 4 to 6 sides of the acreage that we own the 31 000 net acres.
And then we're infill drilling the first Henry well that we drilled.
We've got 2 rigs active infill drilling that.
And again if you -- I mentioned earlier that's -- kind of to the west and to the north of that is where Anadarko had announced their big program.
We think with KKR and Apache it's like I think to the north of it.
So -- now and another thing I would comment on the well spacing.
The wells that we're drilling right now are anywhere from 800 to maybe 1 000 feet apart.
We're going to drill probably 6 or 7 of those.
I think some of the offset operators are drilling wells on 500-foot spacing so we don't really know which is the best formula there.
We're going to do both.
And in the interim we're going to drill hopefully on all 4 to 6 sides of our footprint and materially derisk that by year end.
Our goal beginning of -- really the end of 2012 beginning of 2013 when we knew that we would monetize the Permian -- and if you think about the time frame on that I think it was May of 2013 that we got the wire and we made the $231 million of profit.
So we knew that by the end of this year our South Texas program we would've drilled at least 2/3 of our locations in South Texas and that's going to be true.
So we knew a year ago that we had to start adding new regions and that's when we added the East Texas Eagle Ford.
Again we think we have more drill sites there than we've ever had in South Texas because we have more acreage and we don't have a partner.
And people would ask "Do you know -- do you -- can you get a partner?" Well I don't know.
Well a week ago Monday 10 days ago KKR which is our partner in the South Texas Eagle Ford joined Anadarko.
And I think the lease cost were anywhere from $10 000 to $12 000 an acre.
We've got -- I think we have $100 million in our 31 000 net acres more or less.
So it looks like people are excited about the area.
It looks like there's a lot of activity in the area.
It looks like we did trip and fall on 2 wells and we acknowledged that early on.
If you notice in South Texas we were at 59 for 59 or whatever.
So we've got a really great track record there.
And I think the wells that we're drilling now we're experimenting a little bit on do we need to increase the cost to drill and complete this wells mainly the fracs; and if we can spend another $1 million and have a 50% increase in our IRRs then that would make sense.
If not Don we can pull back in and we can drill wells for less money and put a smaller frac on them and downspace and drill more of them.
But I think to enter the Burleson County area when we did and how we did with -- again I think we could keep one rig busy there for all of 2015 and meet all of our lease obligations.
I think we've made some good moves.
Again we -- I think this time last year we had about 6 600 barrels of oil per day in our South Texas Eagle Ford and they were what 12 000 12 500 or something and growing.
So I think the program works even though it doesn't show up in the stock.
And our liquidity we haven't given up any of our liquidity to add the plays out of the East Texas Eagle Ford or the TMS.
So I guess that's a long way to answer your question but it gives you a little bit of the future and how we got here and where we think we're going.
Mark didn't comment on the William well.
We're at about 3 400-foot in our lateral length.
And then on the Henry 3 we're about 6 400-foot on our lateral length.
So the wells after the Flencher and the Mach -- knock on wood -- we haven't had issues.
So maybe we're through that turbulence.
But I think you need to know we'll tell you when we have some turbulence.
And we had it and we report it and we wouldn't be adding a second third rig in that area if we didn't get a [indiscernible] so...
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Right and you touched on it in some of your comments there but can you walk us through your current 5-rig contract schedule and the flexibility that you have in actually dropping those rigs and when those can be dropped if the current environment persist? Yes we have a rig on contract through November of 2015.
We have another one August '15.
We have another one December '14 and another one.
The other 2 are kind of mid '15.
So all of those I mean they're all in pretty good shape.
If we wanted to drop a couple of rigs we could have.
We have a 5-rig program right now.
We have 1 in South Texas 3 in East Texas 1 in the TMS.
We do have a rig that is on order that we can bring in and either add it to the fleet or get rid of one that we have but there's some flexibility in what we're doing.
We don't have 2- and 3-year rig contracts at all.
Mark may want to add some color to that but that's what I know.
That's exactly right.
Everything that we currently operate expires by the end of next year between now and -- between December 31 this year and the end of next year so we have a lot of flexibility to reduce the rig count if we feel we need to.
And I think that going into the TMS I mean we're extremely positive about the TMS.
I mean we think the reserves are in place.
The issue there is can you reduce the cost? And I think the other operators in that area have shown you that their EURs are exceptionally strong and their drilling costs are coming down.
Now the wells that we're drilling I mean we're going to spend probably 80 days or so drilling this well maybe longer because it's the first well.
We're drilling a pilot hole.
We had to deepen it.
We had to log it.
We had to plug it back and then we had to -- and that's the well that we contribute the data to this consortium of companies.
And so you -- we knew it'd be longer take a longer time to drill it but the question is can we drill those wells in the TMS in 35 days or less? And we think we can.
But I think more important in the ugly oil cycle that we're in is do we have to drill any wells in the TMS to hold our 70 000 75 000 net acres.
And what we've looked at right now we would keep this rig busy through the third well which is the Meeks well.
We'll drill the 2 Foster Creek wells.
And again the well we're drilling now in the TMS we're offsetting the single best well in the play which is the Crosby well -- the Goodrich well.
So we'll complete that.
We'll drill another well pretty close to that.
We'll drill the Meek well and then at that point in time with a low oil environment we could shut the program down and -- I mean I don't think we'd lose any acreage in 2015.
I mean maybe we have to pay $1 million or $2 million to extend some leases or something but it's very very nominal.
We could shut the program down after these 3 wells.
And we're going to look at doing that.
We may take this -- it's $72 million a year to keep a rig busy.
I mean the stock is $10 today.
I'd rather own 20% of the company for that amount of money.
I mean our liquidity is almost equal to our market cap.
It's that type of silliness that's going on out there.
We didn't enter the Burleson area at $10 000 $11 000 and $12 000 an acre.
We've got 31 000 net acres net for about $100 million.
We didn't pay up to get in the TMS.
We've 70 000 to 74 000 net acres for about $74 million.
We've spent $10 million or $12 million whatever it is on one well.
We hadn't spent hundreds of millions on wells out there.
We hadn't spent anything on the Haynesville in 3 -- in 2 years except 2 wells that we drilled in 2013.
And you may want Mark to go into a little bit about what we're thinking about the refracking of the 135 wells that we drilled and the longer laterals.
I mean our return to the $4 gas in a vast majority of the Haynesville area they're pretty phenomenal and they whip the returns we get on our oil play.
Now we've got to go in and see if they're real because we haven't drilled a longer lateral and we hadn't refracked any of these wells.
But that's what we think.
And we're going to focus on that in 2015 also.
Your next question comes from the line of David Amoss of Iberia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jay I want to ask again on -- a follow-up on the refracs in the Haynesville.
Do you guys have kind of an order of magnitude estimate on what that may cost? And then how quickly can you get going on those? And when should we see the first flood [ph] of results from that program? Yes and again I want to preface all this.
This is kind of early innings but I mean we're super excited about it.
But it is early innings and what we don't want to do is go spend a whole lot of money and figure out it doesn't really work as we would project it to work even though there's 2 or 3 companies out there doing it right now.
So I mean we're -- we always take that baby attitude; that's a little bitty baby step at a time.
And if we see it works and we'll be a Michael Johnson and be a world-class sprinter but -- so with that let me give it over to Mark and he can give you the color that he wants to give you right now.
All right.
Yes David this is Mark.
As far as costs go we think those costs will range between $1.5 million and $1.8 million per well to go [indiscernible].
We've got to remove the tubing clean the well out refrac it reinstall the tubing flow the well back do all that to get them cleaned up.
So that's kind of what we're looking at.
We're screening candidates right now and plan to have something in place to -- kind of a pilot project on this about right around the end of the year.
And then we'll look at those results and build the component of our budget next year based on those results.
It'll probably be an add-on to the budget or a change in the budget sometime next year if we see the results are positive but we're not talking about a big incremental change in budget dollars when you're talking about $1.5 million a well.
And if you did 10 of them you're -- it's $15 million so it doesn't really move the needle much capital-wise.
But results we've heard anywhere from $1.5 million a day up to about $4 million a day kind of on the high end is what we've been hearing from some of the other operators.
We plan to try to share information with some of them to obtain more data on what they've done and what's been successful to help us along the way too.
But right now I'd call it kind of a pilot project and not really an implementation of something known.
Kind of like Jay said we want to prove to ourselves it works and then we'll look at implementing it on a grander scale.
Now in addition to that we are thinking about redrilling -- drilling some of the Haynesville wells and drilling them out either 5 000-foot or 7 500-foot laterals.
And with the new completion techniques that debuts in the Marcellus elsewhere you take that new-age technology in the Haynesville I mean -- yes the Marcellus is the #1 shale gas field in the world but it had to jump over to Haynesville in 2012 to get there.
And the Haynesville was developed with old completion technology.
You add some of that in -- the new technology in today and it's going to be pretty eye-opening we think.
As far as the rate of return we might get at the Haynesville program again we've owned that acreage forever.
It's been paid for forever and we've only drilled 10% of our footprint.
So we think there's a lot of upside particularly gas is $4 today and winter has just started.
So we will take a hard look at that and sometime in the middle of December we'll come out with our 2015 budget.
And if you need to know as a stakeholder we have no hedges in play for oil or gas in 2015 right now.
So we're going to take where the SRP [ph] is and work in a budget and see what that will allow us to spend in all of our areas knowing that the 2-rig program we can keep all of our acreage but knowing that we need to grow our production.
But more than grow it we're going to look at rate of return.
That's where we're going to be focused on.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then one more.
In East Texas some exciting results there.
It sounds like you're increasing the rig count as we speak.
Mark can you kind of give us -- if you're in development in '15 and your pads how quickly are you drilling those wells? And I guess the number I'm really after is 3 rigs can drill how many wells in development mode in '15.
David we've been drilling our wells -- our well time from spud to TD has been averaging about 19 days.
So on -- pad to pad you're looking at about 10 days.
And on an existing pad you're looking at about 5 days.
So say on average about 26 27 days.
So you're looking at 13 wells per year per rig is about a pretty good average.
Maybe 14 if we improve things a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell of Thule Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> First thing I wanted to find-- this is -- not trying to kick you when you're down.
I just want to kind of understand it better.
Can you add some color on why you had the casing failures in East Texas and what you're doing differently to avoid it in the future? What you learned from it? Yes look.
That's not kicking us when we're down.
That's just a good honest question so we should be accountable for that.
And I'll turn it over to Mark to be accountable.
Mr.
Williams? Yes Jeffrey.
Yes really we had 2 different issues on 2 different wells.
The first one the Mach we kind of -- an issue where we perforated a little bit higher in the section than we really probably should have and we had ended up resulting in a casing collapse above the last set of perforations.
When you run the calculations on the strengths of materials and things like that there's no reason it should do that but it did.
So it's -- one of the things we're doing there is we're going to be cognizant of that fact and be more careful to stay away from our intermediate streams stay away from the upper part of the Eagle Ford down -- stay more down in the target window with our perforations and eliminate that issue in the future.
And even though we shouldn't have collapsed with the integrity of the casing we did make a human error and we completed it too far into a depleted formation.
So it's a human error.
We did that.
That's a corporate failure.
And we -- it is what is so we don't color it any different.
On the second well on the Flencher well we had a casing obstruction after the sixth set of -- sixth frac stage when we went in to drill out the plugs.
And we've looked at our frac data.
We don't see any indication of that during the frac job.
We believe that is probably a geologic hazard that we -- a small fault or some type of movement that we created with the high pressures of the frac job.
We see that on a rare occasion in both the Haynesville and the Eagle Ford and we hear about it in the other plays as well.
It doesn't happen often.
I mean it's been much more prevalent in the TMS than it has been in the other plays.
It doesn't happen very often but it does happen.
The main things you try to do there is you try to minimize drilling through any geohazard that you can see with any seismic that you have available.
The other thing we did is we changed our casing design.
We basically strengthened it one step up.
And even though there again when you run the numbers it shouldn't have come close to a failure point; but just to provide us more safety factor we've increased that and then we're looking for any geohazards on our steering plots.
And if we see one we'll adjust the perforations to try to avoid that a little bit more than we have in the past to try to minimize that risk of that happening in the future.
Inc.</strong> Okay that was more forthright color.
I appreciate it.
You brought up the subject of TMS and cost and I think it's pretty obvious that's what people care about because we're seeing good wells coming out and no one seems to care.
Can you give us some kind of idea of what sort of combination of EUR and well cost you would need to get to to be able to be able to make acceptable returns in the TMS if we stay in this sort of persistently low oil price for a while? Well I think what we look at initially I mean we were hoping we could have somewhere north of 500 000 recoverable EUR and -- I mean I think Goodrich averages 500 000 to 600 000.
I think that's very achievable.
And I think even in Canada they said 600 000 to 750 000.
I mean we -- when we went in the TMS -- you have to go back when we went in.
And when we went in it Encanca have not had the success they had this year.
They had failures.
Devon had had their failures.
Halcon had had failures and then they reentered it.
Sanchez is not there and Goodrich was struggling.
In 2013 I think there's 6 7 8 of the TMS wells may be drilling completed.
This year maybe there's 50 or 60.
And we went back in it geologically because our geological -- geophysical group felt like the oil was in place.
So that's one of the big checks is if we can reduce the drilling and completion costs for the reserves there we've got to let [ph] that work.
That's why we've got that little stretch of property maybe 60 miles long 20 miles wide or so.
And then as Halcon comes back in and Encana has success and others have success we say "Wow we think our geological group was right in the core." And then again we -- the very first anchor that we put in the TMS was Wilkinson County because we wanted to -- the big old oak tree is the Crosby well which Goodrich has and we wanted to be near it.
So we lease from the Crosby family that 33 000 net acres.
So as it has been derisked we said "Well okay the reserves are there." The question is though do you drill above or below the rubble? Well it took companies a couple of hundred million of dollars to figure out you probably drill below.
And then the question is well what are your real costs? I mean these costs initially to drill and complete were $14 million $15 million $16 million.
Then they were coming in at $14 million and then $13 million.
And then when you see this kind of these companies being able to repeat their success without having glitches that was the big thing for us.
I mean Goodrich I mean they had 5 or 6 wells with no glitches and then Encana had wells with no glitches.
Now again we're -- if you look at our first Foster Creek well you'll say Oh my goodness.
This horrible terrible Charles Barkley bad." No it's our well and it's the well that we said we did all the science [ph] project and we would contribute to the other 4 5 in this consortium of companies.
We're 4 700 feet to lateral on that but we think that you should be able to TD these wells anywhere from 30 to 35 days.
And if we can have 500 000 to 600 000 EUR not even a 750 000 and have $11.5 million well cost we think it will be -- I mean these are going to be viable at $80 oil.
That's what we think.
Now we -- we're not there.
And I think the beauty of that is other people have had great success.
We're not there but quite frankly we don't have to be there right now because when we leased our footprint we assumed that it would be the end of 2015 before that play would start being derisked and it's been accelerated with the success that the peer companies have had.
So that's how we look at it.
We look at risk.
We look at rate of return.
We focus on return.
We don't focus on aggressive production ramps [ph].
We don't focus on "Well how many acres per well? Is it 160 acres? Do you have 200 to 400 drill sites?" We don't really care.
We try to blend the company in with what kind of gas opportunities what kind of oil opportunities and then there's all kinds of different regions for oil opportunities to not get in trouble and to grow and to create value per share.
And again we haven't issued any equity for 10 years.
So we're trying to protect that share value and that's our -- that's how we look at it in the TMS.
Now Mark do you want to add to that? I can add a little bit to that Jeffrey.
Jay was accurate on the cost.
I mean our initial model was around $14 million for these first wells without problems.
And then once we got into kind of drilling mode on single well pads we're looking at about $13 million.
And then our plan in kind of full a development mode with the efficiencies of scale which should get cost down between $11 million and $12 million.
So if you look at that at $80 oil and 600 000 to say a 500 000 MBO type curve you're still looking at probably 25% to 30% IRR.
If you're at a 600 000 MBO-type curve like Encana and Goodrich or projecting off their wells you're probably still looking in between 30% and 45% IRRs.
So I mean it's an economic play.
If you can eliminate the problems and get more consistent results.
And obviously with us we just have to drill one well.
So far we don't have anything to make -- to talk about from a consistency point of view but we're seeing it with Encana and Goodrich and Halcon in the field in terms of being able to drill the wells with many less problems than they were having early on and stimulate them and get them on production at pretty significant rates and the wells are holding up.
So we're pleased with everything we're seeing.
We just need to get on that learner curve with those guys and prove we can do it.
Yes that repeatability factor that's what the play needs.
It needs to be repeatable from 1 or 2 or 3 operators including ourselves.
And then you can structure in that cost and then -- I think the EURs are going to be really good.
We would never worry about the EURs.
We always worried about the costs.
Inc.</strong> I think that was a very helpful overview.
If I can ask one last question.
I was just wondering -- because we've talked about this before -- what's the current timeline to do a test of the wet gas in the East Texas acreage? And is that going to be delayed due to the current commodity prices? And that's it.
Now once the William well is KD'ed [ph] which the William I think we're 3 400-foot lateral right now I think that well moves over to the Lewis.
I may be wrong and then the Lewis is kind of southeast.
Is that right Mark? Is that where it goes? Yes.
And then that'll start testing -- again the southeastern part which is where we think we'll probably have 60% 70% oil and the rest gas.
I mean it'll be...
Yes I think we -- we're working our way down depth kind of as we built units and can get units put together.
Texas is a much more difficult land situation to build long units than Mississippi and Louisiana or so it -- it just takes more work to do that.
But I'll say this we don't have any wet gas acreage that we -- as far as we understand it we think we are either black oil or volatile oil.
So I don't know that we're going to test the wet gas anywhere.
Yes.
It -- I mean we're as excited about that acreage as any of our acreage.
And then we'll move that rig north kind of northeast and it's what's what we call the Kathy well.
And that's an H&amp;P rig.
It's kind of the roaming rig that's drilling all 4 to 6 sides.
And then we'll use a couple of rigs to drill these pad wells with the Henry and they will come out in the middle of December with a budget for 2015.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And yes we'll stand corrected and call it volatile oil from now on.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Sneeden of Oppenheimer.
Roland certainly appreciate the commentary on living within cash flow next year.
Just assuming if you were to do that what do you think your overall production decline profile might look like? I think looking that we'll -- looking at next year's opportunities that we won't have a production decline.
We'll actually be able to -- if we add some -- a little capital toward the gas side I think we'll be able to maybe have a little bit of growth in gas production and then have a -- we'll probably have a fairly low increase in oil production given that we ramped it up so much this year.
So we're still looking at what and where we want to allocate the capital to to generate the best type of production profile for next year.
And given commodity prices are moving around a lot now we'll make our final decisions in December.
But I think by taking away the gas decline we've had this year I think our overall production probably won't be down next year like it is this year.
The models we've looked at right now -- we've got several different models.
We've already looked at them.
We -- like Roland said we'll have -- if you stay total within cash flow we should have slight oil growth and we could have -- depending [ph] upon how the wells turn out in the Haynesville you could have some pretty decent growth in gas and the numbers look pretty decent.
And that again that's keeping our almost $400 million of liquidity.
That's pretty phenomenal for a company like ours.
Sure.
No that's helpful.
Maybe as a follow-up to that.
If you were to kind of ballpark your current corporate PDP decline where do you think that stands as we sit here today? That's hard to gauge but I think the gas is obviously a lot much more mature now and not near a lot of -- we don't have a lot of the -- the higher -- the early years that have the higher declines in the gas production.
So it's probably 15% to 18% kind of base decline expected as we get beyond the fourth quarter.
Well we've got a lot of new oil online so I'm sure that GDP is fairly -- is still fairly high over 50% type decline in our oil production with no new drilling.
Okay.
No that's helpful.
Maybe just one last one on the balance sheet.
In order to have -- how I should be thinking about next year but would you say in broad strokes that your general goals is to maintain leverage under 3x and have a minimum of call it $150 million or so of liquidity? Or maybe talk to me -- talk a little bit about how you're thinking about that.
Yes definitely.
Those -- we would definitely want to exceed the 2 goals that you just said both on the leverage -- our overall target is to stay at 2.5x and that's been -- that's our -- one of our -- that's the number we feel like we should be -- try to keep the company around so -- and then we'd like to have a little more liquidity than that so at least a couple of hundred million $250 million of liquidity that's just available that's not committed to a capital program.
So yes we really have more than that now so it's really about what do we spending for next year.
This year we invested a lot in acreage.
We don't really see a need to invest in acreage next year.
We've got a lot of big portfolio projects to work on.
So we'll see -- we'll just see maintenance costs to maintain our acreage next year and not the big investment there.
Well I think with the derisking of our East Texas Eagle Ford footprint I mean we're -- when you add that with the TMS companywide we'll have never had more drilling locations period.
Plus we will have never had higher oil production rate.
Plus we've never had a higher potential program in the Haynesville.
When we first drilled the Haynesville in '08 '09 '10 '11 it was in the infancy of shale completions.
I mean I think we're sitting on a gold mine.
So with a good balance sheet -- and all that was because we never really felt comfortable that oil is $100-plus commodity and we made the greatest derisking move in our corporate history by selling the Permian and monetizing that.
And like Roland said then we spent -- out of our $231 million of profit from that we spent about $175 million on the acreage position that we have in the TMS and East Texas Eagle Ford and I think those were good bets.
And we intentionally looked at how the leases were structured because we thought if oil prices collapsed which -- I've been doing this 20 -- 34 years and at least 6 7 8 of these horrible cycles -- and that's not only oil it's gas too -- you have to prepare for some downtime.
And we didn't want to monetize the Permian and get in trouble with lease obligations and get back in the same rut and you can see today we're not in that rut.
But that's -- a lot of that was -- most of that was intentional.
Some good fortune but it was intentional.
I now would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Allison for the closing remarks.
Matthew again I love your speech.
I know you're not from Texas and I'm so thankful that with the competitive companies that have the conference call between 10:00 and 11:00 those of you that chose to listen to this I mean we're going to work our hardest every day.
We're not going to color something different than what it is.
If it's really good you'll know it.
If it's really bad you'll know it.
And if we're in tents [ph] somewhere in between you'll know that too.
We acknowledge that oil is in an ugly cycle and we think it could get worse.
Now I hope it doesn't.
We hope gas stays at $4 or above.
And our commitment to you is to not lose our liquidity and to manage this company as you would expect us to because you trust us if you're a stockholder.
So with that I'll adjourn the meeting.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Comstock Resources Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we’ll facilitate a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
Now I’d like to turn the presentation over to your host for today to Mr.
Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer.
You may begin.
Frances thank you and welcome to the Comstock Resources’ fourth quarter and year-end 2014 financial and operating results conference call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our Web site at www.comstockresources.com and downloading the quarterly results presentations.
There you’ll find a presentation entitled Fourth Quarter 2014 Results.
I’m Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock.
With me this morning are Roland Burns our President and CFO; and Mark Williams our CCO.
During this call we will discuss our 2014 fourth quarter and year-end operating and financial results.
Forward-looking statements please refer to Slide 2 in our presentation.
Note in our discussions today we’ll include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Securities Laws where we believe the expectations of such statements to be reasonable there could be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Slide 3 the 2014 highlights.
Slide 3 lists some of the highlights of 2014 which was all focused on oil growth.
Unfortunately the bottom fell out of oil prices in the fourth quarter but the progress made by the company to build up its oil operations will serve it well when oil prices improve.
The 86% increase in our oil production in 2014 drove significant increases in our revenues EBITDAX and cash flow.
Our oil and gas sales including hedging gains of $564 million were up 34% over 2013.
EBITDAX in 2014 of 446 million is 41% higher than 2013 and our cash flow from operations grew 57% in 2014 to $392 million or $8.41 per share.
We drilled 68 successful South Texas Eagle Ford wells placed 91 on production.
In our East Texas Eagle Ford shale play we drilled 11 wells with 10 being successful.
We placed six of those wells on production have eight more to be completed in 2015.
We drilled our first wells in TMS where we have currently 82 000 net acres.
We were only able to complete two-thirds of the lateral due to mechanical problems in our first TMS but otherwise we’re very very pleased with the results which Mark will go with you in a moment.
We have delayed further development in TMS until the oil prices improve.
I will let Roland review the financial results with you in more detail.
Roland? Thanks Jay.
On Slide 4 we recap our oil production growth in 2014 which drove the growth we had in revenues cash flow and earnings for the year.
Our oil production increased to 12 400 barrels per day in the fourth quarter and for the year we’re able to grow our oil production by 86% over 2013.
With the rapid fall in oil prices we have shutdown our oil drilling program in late December but we do have eight additional wells in our South Texas Eagle Ford and nine additional wells in our East Texas Eagle Ford area that we expect to put on production in the first quarter of 2015.
So we do expect a little more oil growth in the first quarter but then we expect oil to decline later in the year with no additional drilling budgeted.
For all of 2015 we’re expecting oil production to average between 9 500 and 10 500 barrels per day.
Slide 5 shows our natural gas production which continued to decline in 2014 with really no gas drilling and it was down 29% from the previous year.
Gas production in the fourth quarter averaged 98 million cubic feet per day.
We did announce in December that we’re moving two rigs to the Haynesville shale to drill long lateral wells and by restarting our program in the Haynesville this will allow us to grow gas production in 2015 where we estimate our gas production will increase to 145 million to 160 million cubic feet per day.
On Slide 6 we summarize our fourth quarter financial results.
The 63% increase in oil production in the quarter offsets the 26% decline in our gas production to provide strong growth in revenues cash flow and EBITDAX.
Oil production made up 43% of our total production as compared to 26% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our realized oil price after hedging decreased 11% to $83.55 per barrel our gas prices improved by 6% to $3.55 per Mcf.
Revenues this quarter were up 20% to 127 million EBITDAX was up 27% to 100 million and cash flow was up 34% to 86 million or $1.85 per share.
Lifting costs in the quarter were up 6% and our DD&amp;A was up 17% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Both reflect the higher cost associated with oil production as compared to gas production.
Our G&amp;A costs were down 26% in the quarter to $6.5 million.
We did have two significant charges in the quarter.
We recorded a $60 million impairment on our producing properties due to the decline in oil and gas futures prices.
As we’re a successful efforts company we use the forward-looking prices to access impairment on a property by property basis.
We also incurred a charge of $6.7 million which is included in exploration expense for payments made to release two of our operated rigs before their contracts expired.
These charges account for most of the $55 million or $1.19 per share loss we had in the quarter.
Excluding these items we would have a net loss of about $0.19 per share.
Slide 7 covers our annual 2014 financial results.
We grew our oil production by 86% while our gas production declined by 29%.
Overall we’ll have made up 39% of our total production as compared to only 20% in 2013.
Our realized oil price after hedging decreased 9% to $92.50 per barrel gas prices improved in 2014 by 23% to $4.16 per MCF.
For the year revenues were up 34% to 564 million EBITDAX was up 41% to 446 million and cash flow was up 57% to 392 million or $8.41 per share.
Lifting costs in 2014 were up 15% and DD&amp;A was up 12% for the year.
Our G&amp;A costs were down 7% in 2014.
In impairments the rig termination fees and drop in oil cost accounted for most of the $54 million or $1.17 per share loss that we reported.
Excluding these items we would have had a net loss of $0.05 per share for 2014.
On Slide 8 we detail our capital expenditures for 2014.
During 2014 we spent $483 million on development and exploration activities and $98 million on acreage and acquisition costs.
We also spent an additional $6.7 million to release two rigs early which had contracts that would expire in 2015.
We had originally budgeted to spend $505 million on our drilling activity in 2014 but we pulled back that activity mainly in the TMS late in the year.
In 2014 we drilled 80 horizontal oil wells or 54.7 net to our interest and we drilled one natural gas well.
We also put 98 new oil wells on production in 2014.
We have a slide on our proved reserves and finding costs on Page 9 of the presentation.
Our proved reserves at the end of 2014 were estimated at 620 Bcfe as compared to 585 Bcfe at the end of 2013.
We operate 96% of our proved reserves and there were 68% developed at the end of 2014.
Our drilling program in the Eagle Ford shale added 5.1 million barrels of oil and about 5 Bcf natural gas or about 5.9 million barrels of oil equivalent to proved reserves in 2014.
Reserves in the Haynesville shale and other regions added 73 Bcf of proved natural gas reserves in 2014.
Our 2014 finding costs came in at approximately $28.56 per barrel of oil equivalent.
On Slide 10 we outline the components of our current 2015 capital budget which we announced in December.
We put out our press release on the budget.
We announced our plans to suspend our oil drilling with the rapid falloff in oil prices and reallocate two of our operated rigs to the Haynesville shale.
We estimate we’ll spend $307 million in 2015 under this budget.
This budget basically includes drilling 18 new horizontal wells in 2015.
168 million of that will be spent to drill 14 long lateral wells in the Haynesville shale and then another 17 million to refrac 10 of our existing producing Haynesville wells.
We’ve also budgeted 30 million to finish drilling four wells on our East Texas Eagle Ford shale acreage that we’re in process at year-end and then we intend to spend $50 million for completion costs of eight Eagle Ford shale wells that were drilled in 2014 and will be completed at 2015 and then we have an additional $42 million budgeted for facilities recompletions and other capital projects.
As natural gas prices have weakened some since we approved our December budget we’re currently considering dropping back to one rig in our Haynesville program.
This would save us about $80 million from this budget.
In the fourth quarter we had some activity in our share repurchase plan which we detail on Slide 11.
We repurchased 2.1% of our outstanding shares or 1 million shares at an average price of $8.09 per share.
We have $83 million authorized for share buybacks but have not made any additional purchases in 2015 as we’re protecting our liquidity.
Slide 12 recaps the balance sheet at the end of 2014.
We had $2 million of cash on hand and $1.70 billion of total debt outstanding.
Debt is about 55% of our total book capitalization.
The borrowing base under our $1 billion bank credit facility is 675 million giving us unused availability of $300 million.
With the rapid fall in oil prices this year we are guarding our liquidity.
We currently have adequate liquidity for 2015 to weather this downturn.
We’ve made substantial reductions to our drilling budget and we’re considering additional reductions.
We’re also looking at asset joint ventures as a possible way to increase liquidity and other potential financings to add to our liquidity.
We’ll also be looking at reducing the dividend.
I’ll now hand it over to Mark Williams to go over the operating results.
Thank you Roland.
Slide 13 shows our South Texas Eagle Ford acreage.
We currently have 24 000 net acres in the South Texas Eagle Ford where we have drilled 196 wells.
We have 62 mapped operated locations left to drill in this area without down spacing.
Slide 14 shows our 2013 and 2014 drilling activity on these properties.
We’ve completed 192 wells so far on our South Texas Eagle Ford acreage.
Our wells have had an average per well and initial production rate of 741 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Since our last operational update in October we have completed 11 additional wells.
These wells had an average per well initial production rate of 816 BOE per day.
This is a little higher than the 792 BOE per day average that we had last quarter.
We have four additional wells 2.2 net wells that are scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of 2015.
Slide 15 shows the acreage we’ve accumulated in Burleson County targeting the Eagle Ford shale.
We have 31 000 net acres in this play.
Slide 16 shows the recent activity in the vicinity of our East Texas Eagle Ford acreage.
We are continuing to delineate our acreage in this play.
Since our last update we have completed three or 2.3 net wells with an average initial production rate of 741 BOE per day.
The Williams A #1H the Kovar A #1H and the Ozell A #1H wells had initial production rates of 919 BOE per day 683 BOE per day and 620 BOE per day respectively.
We have eight or 7.8 net wells in Burleson County that we also expect to complete in the first quarter of 2015.
One of these is located on the far south end of the acreage and the remaining seven are offsetting our very successful results [ph].
On Slide 17 we outline our current leased position in the TMS.
Our ownership is up to 82 000 net acres.
With the drop in oil prices we have suspended our leasing program in this play but we intend to retain most of our acreage position for development when oil prices improve.
During the fourth quarter we completed our first well in the TMS.
The CMR Foster Creek 28-40 #1H was drilled to a total depth of 19 312 feet with a 6 764 foot lateral.
Due to mechanical issues we were able to complete only the first 4 537 feet of the lateral.
The well was completed with an initial production rate of 874 BOE per day.
The initial production rate of 194 BOE per day per 1 000 foot of lateral compares favorably with other successful wells in the play.
In East Texas and North Louisiana we have 69 000 net acres prospective for natural gas in the Haynesville and Bossier shale as outlined on Slide 18.
This acreage has 6 Tcfe in total resource potential.
We think that by applying improved completion techniques such as longer laterals and larger frac jobs this area can generate acceptable returns at current gas prices.
We are implementing a refrac program that can add additional production and reserves from our 189 Haynesville and Bossier wells.
We have budgeted to refrac 10 of our wells in 2015.
Slide 19 shows the evolution of our development plan in the Haynesville.
We expect to enhance recovery and improve the economics in the Haynesville in two ways; by increasing the lateral length and by significantly increasing stimulation size.
The well graphic on the left illustrates our previous development approach where we drilled sectional wells with [indiscernible] laterals at 660 foot well spacing.
The graphic on the right shows our 2015 plan to drill wells covering 1.5 sections which provides lateral length of 7 500 feet.
The extended laterals should increase recovery per well by about 64%.
The other major changes is the significantly larger stimulation treatment.
On a per cluster basis we plan to increase profit amount by 200% and fluid amount by 40%.
With this we anticipate a 60% increase in recovery due to those larger treatments.
Along with the larger treatments we will expand well spacing to minimize well to well interference and maximize the economics of the wells.
Slide 20 provides more detail of our new Haynesville development plan.
We have budgeted $13 million initially for well costs with cost expected to decline to $11 million during 2015 as we fine-tune our approach and take advantage of declining service costs.
We expect that ultimate recovery will increase from the 5.5 Bcf to 6 Bcf range that we previously obtained to the 14 Bcf to 16 Bcf range.
We expect an initial production rate of around 23 million a day with this new development approach.
Slide 21 shows the expected economics of the new Haynesville approach and sensitivity to capital cost and gas price.
The program should generate 21% rate of return at an initial well cost of $13 million and $3 NYMEX gas price.
As well cost is reduced the program economics will improve significantly delivering a 33% rate of return at the same $3 NYMEX price.
As you can see there’s significant upside in this program with the rebounding gas prices.
I’ll now turn it back over to Jay.
Mark thank you and Roland thank you.
If you look at the outlook slide which is Page 22 I’ll summarize our outlook for 2015.
As Mark I think really discussed we are restarting our natural gas program at the Haynesville and we’ve drilled over 180-some odd wells there.
We’re very confident in that and we think that it will materially improve based upon the completion technology which he showed in a slide.
We do have over 6 Tcf serve potentials in the Haynesville/Bossier shale with over 550 drilling locations.
It’s a pretty balanced program with our oil program.
Our natural gas properties are located near the growing Gulf Coast market with premium price realizations which is a gift for us.
Our current drilling budget will deliver strong natural gas growth with gas production in 2015 expected to increase by 35% to 50% over 2014.
And if you noticed in Mark’s model at $11 million to complete the wells that are $2.50 gas priced should give us a 16% ROR or the $3 gas price should give us a 54% ROR so we’re very confident in that and that that will give us some great returns on the money we’re spending.
Our oil program is on hold in the current low oil price environment.
We plan to protect our leasehold positions with lease extensions as budgeted in Roland’s charts.
When oil prices do improve we do have some great upside.
We’ve got 235 future operated Eagle Ford shale locations.
We have 327 future operated TMS locations and we also have maybe some down spacing in our South Texas also that will give us some great rate of returns.
We continue to have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry which will serve us well in the current environment.
We will safeguard our balance sheet in 2015 with the current oil and gas price uncertainty.
We haven’t issued equity in over 10 years.
We protected our share count.
We do have 300 million in liquidity right now which equals our drilling budget this year.
We have reduced drilling activity and we continue to evaluate our activity level based upon oil and gas prices which you’ve seen us do as recently as December to go to a gas program.
For the rest of the call we’ll take questions only from research analysts who follow the stock.
So Frances turn it back over to you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question will come from the line of Kim Pacanovsky from Imperial Capital.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Kim.
So you mentioned that obviously gas pricing has decreased since you announced your transition to the Haynesville and possibly dropping one of the two rigs.
And I’m not asking you to give me an exact price that you would do that at but how do you think about what would make you pull the trigger on dropping that second rig? Kim this is Roland.
I think the gas prices have weakened since we put out the budget and we continue to look at that.
So I think that we feel like there will be good returns.
We want to see some results from these initial wells but overall spending we would like to see lower with the lower prices.
So I think it’s something we’re looking at pretty hard in the face of current gas prices.
Any improvement in gas prices would support us keeping the program as it stands today [ph].
Roland would you wait to see results on your first well before you would make that decision just because obviously from your Slide 21 you still can get very strong returns at some of these lower price decks.
So I’m wondering if you would just wait and see what the results are? And then maybe if you could also just talk about what your confidence level is on some of the projections that you’re giving us in your slide deck? I think overall that we’re pretty confident in the results because we’ve seen it in other select wells that have the same design.
Especially the early results we think they’ll be – we’re pretty confident in those.
I think it’s really more of the overall level of spending and where liquidity just trying to safeguard liquidity and that’s one of tricks we can pull.
So I think it’s really looking at all these factors along with other potential financings we may look at.
So a lot will play I think over the next month.
So I think over the next month I think you kind of get some of those results from the early wells from the refrac which will be interesting.
Depending on maybe the results of the refrac it may be less expensive to try to generate gas with that program.
So there’s a modest effort in play so I think within a month or so as we finish up the first wells and get through the first quarter I think that’s when we make that decision.
Okay.
And what’s kind of the expected rate on a refrac? Can you just maybe summarize what others are finding? Kim this is Mark.
What we’ve been told and are seeing is anywhere from an increase to about 1.5 million up to 5 million or 6 million cubic feet a day.
Okay.
It’s real variable and everybody is experimenting with designs so much that you’re not seeing the consistent results yet.
So we just have to go try a couple and look at our own results.
Okay.
The other thing on our – we have two rigs now in the Haynesville.
I think one terminates in June – we have one in August and then the other one is in November so you’ve got the rig expiration dates those two dates and I think the first well we’re just casing on and it drilled four five days quicker than we thought so that’s a good thing.
And again we’ve drilled a bunch [ph] of these.
We’ve never had a lack of a high IP rate in Logansport where we’re drilling so I think our confidence level there is really high and I think the longer laterals and the more frac fluid that we use you’re going to have some pretty big wells and they’re going to be we think the 14 15 16 Bcf type reserve potential wells.
We’ll have three of them TD’d by probably the next six weeks.
That sounds about right.
We’d probably have three of them TD’d in the next six weeks.
The first one again we said casing on already.
The second one we’re how far? We’re 10 300 feet.
We’re setting our intermediate casing right now.
So you give it another 30 40 days it will be TD’d.
And I think these are three strategically located wells.
They’ll be pretty good markers on what the program should look like.
And going back to Roland’s comments on JV partners we do have partners that would like to come in with those type of returns as you mentioned and maybe own a piece of the wells and the acreage and have a program there.
Now what you hate to do is give up a really good program for a JV when in fact we don’t have to do that.
We could hold it but you got to look that it’s some kind of production growth for the year.
And that’s where we came up and said well maybe after the third well or fourth well we’ll see where gas prices are see where oil prices are.
If we could go move a rig back into East Texas Eagle Ford or the South Texas Eagle Ford if we needed to because oil prices were a lot higher but we’re trying to keep all that flexibility with our primary goal as Roland said to protect our liquidity.
We don’t want to be put in a box.
We have to do something that’s really dilutive when we don’t have to.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
So we definitely apologize to all the analysts.
We know that it’s difficult to have precise models because we are keeping a very fluid program but as we see changes we’ll communicate those but the company has a lot of options and we’ll navigate this year which it’s hard on everybody in this space because of these low prices for both oil and gas.
Your next question will come from the line of Ron Mills from Johnson Rice.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Maybe Mark for you on the well economics you provided there you just boil it down to one comment you talk about the plus or minus 2 Bcf per thousand lateral foot of EURs.
Is that based off of recent Encana results in that particular Logansport or DeSoto Parish area versus what ESCO talked about in their press release yesterday in their Shelby area in East Texas? Ron this is based on total analysis in North Louisiana.
It’s not really an apples-to-apples comparison when you look at Shelby County so we don’t really look at that data and try to analyze it and use it as an analog for us.
So this would all be Encana and other well data in our area in DeSoto and I guess Bossier Parish over there in that area.
But in terms of the economics I’m assuming this was reservoir modeling but is there also any inclusion of recent well results that it sounds like Encana is both on the refrac and the new drilling side? Are you sharing data with them? Is that something you will do? We’re not sharing data with them but we have data.
There’s a lot of public data available on some of this work and so we’re utilizing that.
We utilizing all the variations that we had done in the past.
It’s kind of a combination of looking at our data and some of their public data as well.
Okay.
And then in the TMS you talked about a mechanical issue in terms of that last couple thousand feet you weren’t able to get out.
Is that – what was the mechanical issue? Is it related to the above zone – below zone commentary other companies have talked about? Ron it was a drilling issue.
We had gotten a little bit too low in our window and we’re concerned about being able to finish drilling the well so we backed up and made a side track at about – I’m trying to remember now – at about 15 800 feet I believe is what it was but that may not be the right depth.
I’m going off the top of my head here.
But we sidetracked the well while we were drilling.
We were able to finish the well.
We did it at TD.
But when we ran our production casing it hit that spot in the sidetrack and reentered the old hole instead of the new hole and we could not get it to turn and go into the new one.
We decided it was less risky to go ahead and set pipe and complete the well there than it was to try to pull that casing and risk and recondition the well and try again.
So we set pipe and just abandoned that open hole section passed the sidetrack.
So we had no trouble completing the well.
The frac jobs all went very well.
The plugs drilled out just like they do in our other areas so the completion part of it went just fine.
It was just a steering issue and not getting production casing to bottom.
And then lastly if you look at the Williams versus the Kovar versus the Ozell I think the Ozell was one of the first wells to start testing more proppant.
I think you were going to put even more proppant in the Williams.
When I look at those well rates the Williams look like it’s probably in line with a type curve.
Was there anything from a drilling or completion or mechanical problem that occurred with the Kovar and Ozell or can you comment on those results and also on the gas oil split particularly or the Kovar since that was your Southern most test so far? Yes Ron.
This is Mark again.
The Williams definitely kind of fits our type curve and what our expectation was.
The Ozell has underperformed it somewhat.
No mechanical issue or completion issue there.
I think it’s just a factor of you see some [indiscernible] in the rock and some variation across the field and that’s just a well.
It’s kind of an anomalous well that doesn’t seem to fit any of the wells around it.
It doesn’t fit the broad neck [ph] or the Stifflemire the Halcon well or Henry well or the Williams.
So it’s kind of just an anomalous well.
One of those things it’s hard to put a finger on but we figured it’s just a local phenomena right there in that area.
The Kovar well is a high GOR well and that’s why it’s performed differently than the other ones.
It’s about 7 000 standard cubic feet per barrel 6 000 to 7 000 I believe I don’t have the number in front of me but compared to the Henry which is about 2 000 standard cubic feet per barrel.
So it’s definitely getting gas here as you move to the South and that’s why it’s acted differently than those other wells that on a flow rate basis it flows were a pretty high rate but it was just a lot more gas.
All right great.
Thanks guys.
Ron some cleanup comments.
We did look at the Goodrich Crosby well.
We looked at per thousand feet what your BOE per day was and I think the Crosby well is about 193 BOE and I think our Foster Creek was like 194 or so.
So even though we weren’t able to complete the extra couple thousand lateral feet we thought the per thousand foot was pretty comparable to the Crosby well and I think that well is 2 2.5 miles away from our Foster Creek well.
I agree with that statement.
I mean it’s in line with the wells on a lateral foot basis.
Yes.
Again it’s the first one we drilled and so to have that in line shows you that I think the reservoir quality is there.
And the other reason we haven’t continued to end the TMS which we think is a good play is oil prices are low.
So we shouldn’t see -- Is the plan to drill your second commitment well or just maybe pay lease extensions then? Right now in our budget we just pay lease extensions.
I think that’s the safest thing to do to see where oil prices end up and to see where gas prices end up.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ve got the option to do that.
Your next question will come from the line of David Amoss from Iberia Capital Partners.
You may begin.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Mark you mentioned the thinking about spacing in the Haynesville as you go back there for the first time in a couple of years and I’m curious how you’re going to monitor the potential interference between wells? And then what are the options if you do see something between your first couple of wells where you can wind the spacing? And then one last question is when you think about the refrac program with the new well is that something we should view as a complementary program or are they two separate and unique concepts? Yes.
On the first point – this Mark.
As far as interference we’re probably not going to be doing many spacing tests out here because of the rig count.
With one or two rigs it’s hard to really get any developed full units.
So our picture on interference is based on the other data that we had analyzed and the idea that with the bigger frac jobs you need to put the wells a little bit wider and those tests were done in some other areas by Encana.
And so that public data has helped us to determine that the six wells per spacing is the correct spacing right now.
In terms of the others they’re really independent programs.
The refrac program and the new well program they’re really totally independent.
Now we may utilize refracing as part of our new drill program if we’re fracing a new well and have an existing offset well we may chose to refrac the offset well at the same time to gain some benefit there.
But initially we’re going to test the concept on some stand-alone wells and make sure that it works.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
And then one other question.
So you guys were talking a little bit about the potential to drop a rig and it sounds like you’ve got contracts coming up in August and November.
So when we look at our model and if you do drop that rig how should we think about any risk to guidance in the back half of the year? And then what '16 might look like with that Haynesville program? Well if we decide to drop a rig we’ll have to revise our gas guidance though oil wouldn’t be affected at all because the Haynesville’s all 100% gas.
So we’ll come back and do that at that time.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Jeff Robertson from Barclays Capital.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Mark a question on the new well design in the Haynesville can you talk about their reasoning behind going to unrestricted flow-back versus the restricted choke program you all ran on the old wells? Yes Jeff.
We have had much more time now to gather the data since we did the program in '09 and 2010 and we looked at the data in our Logansport wells and really haven’t seen the benefit from the restricted choke program that we saw early.
You take a really early time data and project it out and you think you see something and then you get three years of data and go back and look it again and you say well it really didn’t work out that way.
So we saw very little benefit from the restricted break program and you see a significant benefit to rate of return by going unrestricted so that’s why we’re going that way now.
So they settled out on the same terminal decline then no matter – or at least of what you think you would get on an unrestricted well? Is that the point you’re making? Yes.
In our better areas especially we’ve seen no change in EUR no benefit in EUR on the choke back wells.
Okay.
And then on your well costs is there anything other than just falling service costs in terms of what you all are trying to do to achieve the $11 million well costs and what are your AFEs on these first couple of wells you all are drilling this year? Our AFE on the first couple of wells is about 12.7 million.
And so primarily it’s going to be service cost reduction.
The frac costs are coming down quickly.
I’m sure you guys are hearing it from everybody and we’ve already seen about a 15% decline in frac costs just in the first few months of this year without really impact of the drop in the rig count.
So everything we’ve talked to the vendors we expect to see a significant reduction in frac costs and in other ancillary costs as well.
So we trim a couple of days of drilling off from what we’re doing right now and we add that to the frac savings that’s where we’re getting our $11 million.
Okay.
And last question how much of the 11 to 13 is the completion part? Is it 50% or 60%? Is that about right? About 65% I believe it’s about 65% completion.
Yes 4 million or so to drill and then about 8 million to complete.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question will come from the line of Mr.
Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Is it snowing in New York? It’s freezing but we’re used to it now we’re all numb.
Referring to Slide 21 I’d like to approach this a little bit different way.
What’s the minimal acceptable rate of return that you guys are shooting for to support the 2015 Haynesville drilling? And how much of your production is hedged currently at a price that supports this rate of return? None of it is hedged so it’s whatever the market price is it’s going to generate the rate of return plus the well costs which is I think moving toward the – probably has a higher probability of moving to the best returns on the slide.
Okay.
I mean it’s a very dynamic year obviously with commodity prices and that’s why we have a very dynamic budget.
Understood.
Roland can correct me if I’m not quite right here but my guidance from them typically is a 20% rate of return is kind of our threshold and that’s where we try to look at on all of our projects.
And sometimes there’s extenuating circumstances but generally that’s what we look for.
Yes that’s our goal.
Okay great.
If you do decide to drop another rig can you do so without penalty? And if you do have to pay a charge do you have any idea what it might be? It depends on when we drop it but I think it would be somewhere probably less than 3 million most likely to drop one.
So that compared to the amount of cost that come with drilling the wells it’s a small percent of that.
Okay.
Just going back to oil what stable oil price do you look for to be able to return to oil development and how long will it take you to get back up and running drilling oil wells? As far as to return back I think it would be something we could do fairly quickly if we were to take our existing operating rigs and move them back to where they were because they’ve moved over to the Haynesville that’s relatively not that far apart.
But it’s something that we could do fairly swiftly and we do probably have enough locations maybe where we’ve done work that we could move back into – especially in Burleson.
The oil price a lot of that is going to be dependent on where we think service costs are settling down at.
So as we reduce service costs we can look at lower prices kind of lower prices to achieve and [indiscernible] with our prices.
So my guess would be in as we approach the $70 a barrel we’re probably getting to where we could find oil projects that made our return levels if service costs don’t go back up but oil prices go up.
Okay.
Some of your peers have talked about how if we got service cost reductions where the old $90 return became the new $70 return that that would really work.
It kind of sounds like maybe that’s what we’re talking about here? I think that’s right.
It’s all relative.
Of course if everybody’s returned to the same level of activity I don’t know if you could expect service cost to be down that far but there’s going to be some meeting in the middle there when oil settles out in a level and the service companies figure out where they can make things work.
And I think that will take some time to settle out.
If I can ask one last question.
Could you add a little color on the unsuccessful Burleson County well? I mean was this a mechanical issue like there’s been in the past or were you just testing some fringe acreage or what was the story? This is Mark.
When we reported over this well before this is not a new well that came on in this quarter.
It was our mock well and in the very last frac stage the casing parted and we were never able to return – reenter the well and drill the plugs out.
The well wouldn’t produce.
Okay.
Yes I’m familiar with that one.
So the point is it wasn’t a new well.
You’re including that old well in the set? That’s correct.
It was in that set.
And talking about our acreage a little bit one thing if we look at the map you can draw it different ways.
I think that’s Slide 16.
We feel really comfortable about 60% of our net acreage is in the oil window.
We’ve probably got another 10% maybe that’s kind of on the oil/gas transition and then based on the Kovar well we’ve got maybe 30% of our acreage.
It’s more down in the wet gas window.
Sometimes you look at these maps and you draw a line and you just add it up in your head and it doesn’t look quite like that but the way the net to gross works out it’s really about 60%.
And then we’ve got all those Henry wells.
We’ve got seven Henry wells left to complete that we’re starting on this week.
They are all in that oil window and should provide significant oil uplift.
Okay great.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Phillips Johnston from Capital One.
You may begin.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
Just a couple of questions for Roland on the revolver.
What drove the reduction in the borrowing base to 675 million from 700 million? And what are you guys expecting looking out into the spring and the fall redeterminations? The 675 was the last redetermination that was done in November so that was the new number that came out.
And we’ll have another redetermination in May so we’re looking at that because we’re looking at their prices.
Their prices will be down potentially.
It will be in the magnitude of 10% to 15% kind of lower prices especially on the oil side more so than the gas side.
So we’ll be monitoring that and that’s why we want to safeguard on liquidity so we don’t have to worry about not having enough borrowing base compared to what we have outstanding.
Okay.
And was the reduction driven by an asset sale or something? For the 25 million I think it was just based on where pricing at the time.
Okay got it.
And then Jay I think you mentioned in your opening comments potential for down spacing in South Texas Eagle Ford which I think is the first time you guys have alluded to that.
I think you’ve developed most of your acreage on 80s if I’m not mistaking so are you talking about possibly going down to 40s there at some point? This is Mark.
A lot of the companies have tested down spacing and have talked about it being advantageous so everything can be infield when prices are right and the service cost are right and so we’ll always keep looking at that as an option.
And at some point we’ll probably need to go in and test some infield locations and see how they work.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Dan McSpirit from BMO Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Thank you folks.
Good morning.
Hi Dan.
Turning to the balance sheet what options would be considered as sources of capital to enhance liquidity meaning what do you view as your cheapest cost of capital today? I think there are different things.
We can look at different financings to the extent that we have activity we want to finance.
I think that looking at the low returns that are available in oil drilling and kind of a tenuous return on gas it doesn’t make a lot of sense for us to want to go out and mature a lot of financing for those programs but there are options; the asset joint venture is up that that maybe something we want to look at to kind of help enhance the returns on the projects like we did in our Eagle Ford play.
And so that’s something that we’ll continue to look at for both our old plays and it maybe even potentially in the Haynesville which offers those returns for a joint venture today.
So those are the main ones.
I think there are other type of debt financings we can look at also.
Okay great.
Got it.
And as a follow up to that it was mentioned earlier in the call $17 per barrel being somewhat the economic breakeven price or the price at which you may commit more capital to drilling the Eagle Ford or maybe even the TMS.
The question is would you hedge at that price? Potentially.
I mean we typically have liked the hedge to match the drilling program.
So a lot of it – the $70 is relative on where we feel like costs are at that time.
I think that’s a pretty fair number and maybe it could go a little lower than that in the South Texas Eagle Ford.
On the same question Dan with gas at 3 3.25 3.50 whatever if we had a Haynesville program that was aggressive we would hedge.
Okay great.
And then on the subject of the TMS what is acreage going for today in the play just trying to get a marker on valuation? We really wouldn’t know.
You’d have to – I think it’s fairly not a real active play at the time but there’s no real – there’s no market for acreage any particular time that you can – you have to kind of see what players are adding acreage.
Okay.
And what is your cost basis I guess put differently? Our cost is probably about $1 000 an acre.
Yes it’s about 1 000 on acre.
Okay great.
For the acreage remember that we paid as low as 200 or so for the acreage to the South East.
If you blend it again it’s probably 1 000 -- Yes maybe slightly less.
Okay great.
And then just a last one if I may on the subject of the Haynesville.
I know some questions were asked about the old versus new completion designs.
But if you could clarify and apologies if I missed this what are the first year decline rates on the old and new completion designs just trying to get a sense of how the shape of the curve changes with the larger treatments under the new completion design? Dan this is Mark.
I don’t think the shape is going to change much if you compare unrestricted to unrestricted.
So you have to be careful what wells you’re looking at.
If you’re looking at original wells that were completed using a small choke size and a float at a very restricted rate they’re going to have a much flatter early time to climb than these wells will.
These wells are probably in the 75% to 80% range.
I don’t remember the number we used on our type curve but I think that’s about right 75% to 80%.
And that’s pretty similar to the un-choked wells that we completed in the very beginning of the play before we initiated the restricted rate program.
Very good.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Dan Guffey from Stifel.
You may begin.
Good morning guys.
If we returned to $70 where does your first rig go East Texas or South Texas? That is probably hard to say.
I mean it obviously has to go to East Texas first as it keeps going to South Texas of the same track.
Makes sense.
And I guess can you discuss give some color on the size and quality of your remaining South Texas Eagle Ford inventory comparing the expected future results in wells to ones that are already on production? Dan it’s Mark.
Primarily our undeveloped acreage is in Anascossa and Freole County so those are going to be lower IP wells probably 400 to 500 barrel a day IP maybe in that range.
That’s where most of our undeveloped acreage is.
If we go back down to South Texas with pricing increasing and if the data supports it we may initiate an infield program and test that concept first which would be in our McMullen acreage or maybe in LaSalle County.
So it really depends on the analysis at the time and kind of what our goals are with the capital at that time.
Okay.
And you guys have talked about 10 refracs this year.
How deep do you see that inventory being? How many opportunities you have in the Haynesville? We still have over 100 operated wells and every well out there is a refrac candidate.
So we will just line them up in terms of where we feel like the highest potential benefit to the lowest and work down that list.
We got to do a few and see how they work because there just isn’t much data out there and what little bit of data we’ve seen is pretty sporadic.
So we need to get some more consistent results with our program and then we can apply it really across all of our acreage.
Okay great.
And then last one from me.
Have you guys been in discussions with your banker about the possibility of loosening your debt to EBITDA covenant? And if so can you give an idea how that may affect the borrowing base and/or borrowing cost? No we haven’t really started those discussions yet.
As we looked at the new borrowing base I think that’s something that’s definitely very doable.
We used to have a much higher leverage ratio before and so that was really set for a higher price environment.
So I don’t suspect that will be a big issue at all.
So that will be something that we will address in May with – and kind of reset the borrowing base.
Okay good to hear.
Thanks guys.
It looks like we have time for one more question and that will come from the line of Mr.
Mike Beard from Hodges Capital.
You may begin.
Yes.
You mentioned you had a redetermination in your bank line in November.
What prices did the bank use at that time compared to what they were using earlier? I don’t know the exact answer to that.
I think that the prices since then are probably lower potentially by another 10% to 15%.
But I don’t recall how they compared it to the spring before.
Okay but it must have been a pretty small drop I guess? Yes it wasn’t – I mean if you remember in November things were just starting to come down a little bit.
We kind of had our redetermination at the end of the season and prices had started to weaken up.
Okay.
All right well good.
It shouldn’t have much of an impact on your borrowing base no matter even at 15%? Right.
We’re not expecting a material increase and we also will have new reserves so it’s not a static number.
We have a lot of new producing oil reserves that are coming on line that will really help offset some of that.
In your first Haynesville results by then too? Right.
And I think the potential to really have a significant increase in undeveloped reserves kind of based on proven up our new kind of design there and we haven’t reflected that in our reserves at all at this time.
We really have – any Haynesville reserves in our reserves are based on our old historic performance which is three to four years ago type design.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
All right thank you.
Good question.
At this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jay Allison for your final remarks.
All right again Frances thank you.
Our goal is to use our capital wisely protect our liquidity test the Haynesville play; I know it’s a Tier 1 gas play test it and continue to look at maybe down spacing in South Texas Eagle Ford if we put rigs back in that play and we do have 62 locations right now that we can down space.
Look at East Texas.
Again I think Mark said 60% of our acreage we’re very comfortable with an that’s to the Western part.
We’ve got seven or eight wells that we’ll report in the next quarter which are near the Henry wells.
I think that will be good.
The TMS well although we were 2 000 feet shorter than we wanted on our lateral per thousand feet 194 BOE was a good number.
And then again we’ll protect our liquidity and report if we make any changes in our business plan.
I appreciate the time and we’ll be good stewards for the money.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect and enjoy your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Comstock Resources' Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We shall facilitate a question-and-answer session at the end of the conference.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Jay Allison.
You may proceed.
Derek thank you.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources first quarter 2015 financial and operating results conference call everyone.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and downloading the quarterly results presentation.
There you will find a presentation titled First Quarter 2015 Results.
The highlight of this call really will not be the numbers we report today you've seen those but really the return of Mack Good as our Chief Operating Officer and his overview of the company and our position.
After 3.5 year break Mack has returned to help us navigate through these difficult times with low commodity prices.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock.
And with me this morning in addition to Mack is Rowland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2015 first quarter operating and financial results and our plan for the rest of this year.
If you go to slide two please turn to slide two in our presentation and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations and such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Slide three is a quick overview of the first quarter where we saw the rapid fall of both oil and gas prices.
Without hedges in place we felt the full brunt of the rapid decline in oil and gas prices in the first quarter as our realized oil price fell by 53% and our average realized natural gas price declined by 47%.
The 11% increase in oil production was not enough to overcome the low prices of our oil and gas sales fell by 53% to $67 million EBITDAX came in at $40 million and cash flow from operations $20 million or $0.43 per share.
Our operations in the first quarter were focused on ramping up our oil drilling program and restarting our Haynesville shale program with improved completion designs.
Our first two extended lateral wells in Haynesville were very successful as both had IP rates in excess of 20 million cubic feet per day as Mack will go over in detail in a few minutes.
Our first rig frac in a producing Haynesville Shale well was also successful and was featured in Schlumberger's earning call.
We expect to start growing our gas production again in the second quarter of this year.
In March we completed a $700 million bond offering which paid off our bank credit facility and added liquidity to our balance sheet.
Our goal was to establish a fortress balance sheet to weather this down cycle.
We now have no debt maturities until 2019 and we have total liquidity of $279 million at the end of the first quarter.
In order to safeguard our liquidity we have significantly reduced our drilling expenditures for the remainder of 2015.
I'll have Roland review the financial results with you in more detail.
Roland? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</strong> Thanks Jay.
On slide four we recap our oil production growth.
Our oil production averaged 11 500 barrels per day in the first quarter an 11% increase over the first quarter of last year.
With the rapid fall in oil prices we shut down our oil drilling program in late December.
We experienced some delays in completions planned for our East Texas Eagle Ford property in the first quarter and we had excessive downtime for offset fracs and artificial lift installation in the quarter which caused our oil production to decline from the fourth quarter rate of 12 400 barrels per day.
With little drilling activity this year planned for our oil projects we expect oil production to decline further.
For all of 2015 we're expecting oil production to average between 9 500 to 10 500 barrels per day.
Slide five shows our natural gas production which continued to decline in the first quarter of 2015 and was down 25% from 2014's first quarter.
Gas production in the first quarter averaged 91 million cubic feet per day.
Our Haynesville production was down a little more than expected due to the delay in completing our first extended lateral well.
In addition we had to shut in some production in March while we completed our first two extended lateral Haynesville wells.
We expect the Haynesville to start drilling again in the second quarter.
For all of 2015 we expect our gas production will average 130 million to 155 million cubic feet per day.
On slide six we summarize the first quarter financial results.
The 11% increase in oil production was not enough to offset the 25% decrease in our gas production in the quarter.
This combined with 53% lower oil prices and 47% lower gas prices caused our revenues cash flow and EBITDAX to decline.
Revenues this quarter were down 53% to $67 million EBITDAX was down to $40 million and cash flow from operations declined to $20 million or $0.43 per share.
Our lifting costs in the quarter were down 14% with the lower sales.
However our DD&amp;A was up 3% due to an increase in our DD&amp;A rate in the quarter.
Starting next quarter we'll see some benefit from our new Haynesville program which will help lower the DD&amp;A rate.
Our G&amp;A cost in the quarter were down 5% to about $8 million and we also had two significant accounting charges in the quarter.
We recorded a $41 million impairment on our unevaluated properties for our southern Burleson County acreage due to poor drilling results.
We also had a charge of $1.8 million included in exploration expense for payments made to release one of our operated rigs and a charge of $3.7 million for the early retirement of our bank credit facility which was offset in part by a $1 million gain on the repurchase of $2 million of our unsecured bonds.
Including these charges we had a $78.5 million loss or $1.71 per share.
Excluding these items we would have a net loss of $1.06 per share.
On slide seven we detail our capital expenditures in the first quarter.
We spent $121 million on development and exploration activities not including the $1.7 million we spent on acreage.
We also spent an additional $1.8 million to release the operated rig before its contract term expired.
In the quarter we drilled five horizontal oil wells or four net to our interest; two horizontal natural gas wells or two net to our interest.
We also put four South Texas Eagle Ford wells and four East Texas Eagle Ford wells on production in the quarter.
In March we announced our plans to release another drilling rig and reduce our capital budgets to $248 million which is detailed on slide eight.
We estimate that we'll spend $238 million this year for drilling and completion activities $95 million of that will be spent to drill 9 Haynesville shale extended lateral wells and another $23 million will be spent to refrac 14 of our producing Haynesville wells.
We also budgeted $30 million to finish drilling four wells on our East Texas Eagle Ford shale acreage that were in process at year-end and we budgeted $50 million for completion cost of eight Eagle Ford shale wells that were drilled in 2014 but will be completed this year and $40 million on facilities recompletions capital projects.
The spending was heavily weighted to the first quarter with almost half of the budget being spent in the first quarter.
Slide nine recaps our balance sheet at the end of the first quarter which includes the $700 million bond offering we completed in March.
We have $229 million of cash on hand and about $1.4 billion of total debt outstanding.
Net debt represents 53% of our total book capitalization.
We no longer have a bank facility that is limited to a borrowing base.
We do have a new $50 million four-year bank commitment that is not subject to reduction based on a borrowing base redetermination.
So our total liquidity at March 31 was $279 million.
We chose to do a larger bond offering due to definitions in our existing bond indentures which made a second lien facility and a borrowing-based bank credit facility unworkable for us.
This new structure removes any concerns over future reductions in borrowing capability for the company.
Our first debt maturities do not come until 2019 giving us a long runway to survive this down cycle.
I'll now hand it over to Mack Good who we're very happy to have back at the helm of our operations during these difficult times.
Thanks a lot Roland.
It's good to be back.
And I'll tell you what if you work in the oil and gas business you're never bored.
That's for sure.
What's made my return a lot easier is the opportunity to work with all of the many talented people here at Comstock and we have a great team here and I'm really proud – pardon me – I'm really proud to be part of it.
Since coming back to the company diving into the things the first thing that hit me was all the economic opportunities we have within our East Texas and North Louisiana region.
And as everyone can see on slide 10 we have 69 000 net acres prospective for natural gas in both the Haynesville and Bossier shales.
This slide also shows that the acreage has 6 Tcfe of total resource potential and that every bit of it is operated by Comstock.
Maybe some of you have seen this slide before.
Slide 10 demonstrates the magnitude of the resource.
I think this was a good slide the first time we showed it and it's even better now and I'll tell you why.
It's better now because we are very confident that given our current drilling and completion strategies we can take real advantage of economies of scale at the completion level.
By doing this we become much more efficient and cost-effective in gaining production from our shale gas assets.
I know that in this first quarter we have proved this to be true to ourselves and our partners.
And in addition we've also identified numerous Haynesville wells that are excellent candidates for refrac.
So during the first quarter we implemented a refrac program that could add additional production and reserves from our 186 producing Haynesville and Bossier wells going forward.
I know that many of you might wonder why we would go back to the Haynesville in this low price environment.
The reason is pretty simple.
Last year our technical team became convinced that the return profile of our typical Haynesville wells could be greatly improved by applying the newest drilling and completion technologies specifically extended laterals and larger stimulation treatments pumps across more stages and within certain pumping guidelines are very common in all the active shale plays today.
And using this approach our new Haynesville wells have 27% to 47% rate of returns at natural gas prices varying between $3 to $3.50 per Mcf.
Refracs of our existing wells have a rate of return that vary between 40% to 69% at natural gas price deck $3 to $3.50.
So the Haynesville makes sense for us because we have an extensive inventory of drilling and recompletion opportunities that we can execute with positive economic benefit within a low price environment.
As evidence of these opportunities we've mapped over 700 Haynesville locations on our acreage including 91 with extended laterals.
And in addition we have 530-plus Bossier locations including 108 with extended laterals.
And last but not least our refrac program has identified approximately 186 refrac candidates within our Haynesville and Bossier assets.
And we consider it a real benefit that our Haynesville gas is located within a premium gas market close to the Henry Hub.
Comstock unlike many of the other Haynesville operators is not burdened by expensive transportation obligations.
So because of this we can take advantage of a market with excess capacity.
Moving on to slide 12 you'll see the results of our first three Haynesville projects of this year.
All three are in our Logansport field area in DeSoto Parish Louisiana near the state line of Texas.
And let me give you some of the numbers.
We began the year by executing our first refrac of a Haynesville shale well during the first quarter of 2015.
Following the refrac the Pace 33 #1 well in DeSoto Parish Louisiana had an initial production rate of 4 million cubic feet per day which was an eight-fold increase from its 0.5 million per day production rate before the refrac.
We're currently producing this well at a stable rate of 3.5 million cubic feet per day.
We also recently completed our first two new extended lateral wells using our new completion strategies and design.
The Pyle 6-7 #1 was drilled to a total vertical depth of 11 183 feet with a 7 598-foot lateral.
This well was tested with an initial production rate of 26 million cubic feet per day which is a new company record for us.
The second well the Shahan 5-8 was drilled to a total vertical depth of 11 233 feet with a 7 421-foot lateral and this well was tested at an initial rate of 22 million cubic feet per day.
We have our third lateral well that's currently being completed.
A fourth well waiting on completion and we're currently drilling our fifth extended lateral Haynesville well and all of these wells are in DeSoto Parish.
On slide 13 we have a comparison of how our new extended lateral well design compares to the most common design that we and everyone else was using about five years ago.
And as with any business there's nothing that improves results like the development of better technology coming together with more and better evaluated information.
So based on current service costs our new design cost is between $9.5 million to $10.5 million to drill and complete.
Given all of our work and the results of our new wells we expect that our extended lateral wells will have ultimate recoveries approaching between 14 Bcf to 16 Bcf.
This compares to the 5.5 Bcf to 6 Bcf range that we previously obtained drilling and completing the shorter laterals with very similar D&amp;C costs.
So we expect an initial rate from our new wells in the Haynesville to average around 20 million cubic feet per day with the new design that we're fracking the wells with.
Slide 14 shows the expected economics of the new Haynesville approach and the sensitivity to capital cost and gas price.
The program should generate a 27% rate of return at an initial well cost of $11 million at a $3 NYMEX gas price.
As the well cost is reduced to around $10 million the program economics improve significantly delivering a 35% rate of return at the same $3 gas price.
And our goal is to do these jobs these new Haynesville wells at a $10 million D&amp;C price.
Now move on from the Haynesville to our South Texas Eagle Ford acreage.
Slide 15 shows this acreage.
We currently have about 24 000 net acres in the South Texas Eagle Ford where we have drilled 196 wells.
In the first quarter of 2015 we completed four wells 2.2 net that were drilled last year.
And these wells had an average production rate per well approaching 750 barrels of oil equivalent per day; 90% of this was oil.
These will be the last wells we will drill and complete in this play until prices improve but we'll be ready when they do.
Our technical team has mapped an additional 105 locations left to drill and we also think that many of our earlier wells are excellent candidates to be refracked and we are working on a plan to execute some of these re-fracs starting in the second quarter of this year.
Slide 16 shows the acreage we've accumulated in Burleson County targeting the Eagle Ford shale.
We have 32 000 net acres in this play.
Recent drilling results that include the Lewis wells show higher than expected GORs and this has caused us to remap the oil window in our southern Burleson County acreage.
As a result we now feel that 58% or 18 400 acres are prospective for oil development.
We've written off the cost of the gassy southern acreage this quarter.
The northern acreage looks very good where we drilled the William and Henry well.
We consider the William well one of the best wells drilled to-date within the play.
And we believe that our oil window acreage is prospective for about 125 future drilling locations.
Slide 17 shows recent activity on our East Texas Eagle Ford acreage.
We completed four wells 3.8 net in the first quarter.
Three of these wells the Henry A2 A3 and A4 wells had an average per well initial production rate of 764 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
80% of it was oil.
Our Lewis A1 had an initial rate of 101 barrels of oil and 2.9 million cubic feet of gas.
There are four additional wells our Henry B wells that are cleaning up after the respective frac treatments.
Moving on to the TMS; on slide 18 we outline our current lease position there.
Our ownership is now up to about 82 000 net acres and our technical staff has mapped most of it as highly prospective.
A significant portion of our leasehold is offset by some of the best wells drilled in the play to-date.
Obviously with the drop in oil prices we suspended our leasing and drilling activity in this play.
But we do intend to retain most of our acreage position for future development once oil prices improve.
Importantly I also want to point out that we are preparing to reenter the play by continuing to actively participate in the TMS Consortium Group that was formed to exchange drilling and completion information between operators in this play.
Our goal is to be technically ready and up to date so we can reenter the play when the time is right.
So that's it from the Haynesville through the Eagle Ford and on to the TMS.
And now going full circle I'll hand the baton back to Jay.
All right.
Again thank you Mack.
If everyone would please turn to slide 19 I'll summarize our plan for the rest of the year.
With the rapid fall in oil prices we decided to refocus on our largest assets as Mack said the Haynesville shale where improved completion technology has potentially improved the economics of the play.
We have a vast resource there with over 6 Tcf of reserve potential and over 1 200 mapped drilling locations.
The play is near the Gulf Coast market which offers premium price realizations compared to other regions in the country.
The Haynesville program will deliver strong natural gas production growth in 2015 while our oil program is on hold in this low oil price environment.
With the oil prices improving and well cost declining we have a good inventory of projects to pursue including 230 future operated Eagle Ford shale locations and in addition to that 327 future operated TMS shale locations.
We'll continue to maintain our low-cost structures.
We have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry.
And most importantly we'll safeguard our balance sheet in 2015 with oil and gas price uncertainty and our lack of hedges.
We entered the quarter with $279 million of liquidity and we have significantly reduced drilling activities to conserve this liquidity.
So for the rest of this call we'll take questions only from the research analysts who follow the company.
So Derek I'll turn it back to you.
And our first question will be coming from the line of Kim Pacanovsky Imperial Capital.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning and welcome back Mack.
Thank you.
If you look at the vertical results around your Haynesville acreage and your previous mapping what percent of the extended lateral locations do you think would be as high of quality as the two wells that you just drilled? Well that's a great question.
A considerable percentage.
I don't have an exact number for you Kim.
I mean we're – the 90 or so laterals that – extended laterals that we mentioned is just targeting a specific part of the Haynesville acreage that we own.
We have significant assets as you know to the South.
We would like to see a little higher gas price before we start drilling an extended lateral in those areas.
But we have absolutely – really good confidence that we can extend these concepts throughout our entire acreage.
Okay.
So the 91 locations are based upon the current commodity scenario.
Right.
We have...
Okay.
...dozens and dozens in increments of $0.10 to $0.25 per Mcf higher stable gas price that we can go for at that time.
Got it.
Okay.
And then on the refracs versus the new drills obviously the rate of return on the re-fracs is much higher.
How do you look at weighting refracs versus new drills? Is the weighting more heavily here toward new drills because there's spottiness with the refracs or because of logistical issues.
Because it takes a lot more refracs to equal the same tick up in production as a virgin well.
How do you look at that? Well Kim.
You just identified all of the reasons why we target the new wells preferentially to execute the refracs it's a more labor-intensive work-intensive set-up to get these wells ready to refrac to get partner approvals et cetera.
We have numerous candidates.
We have AFE circulating.
We also have the same identified candidate list in terms of numbers in our Eagle Ford play.
So I think the important thing here is to keep our options open.
We're going to do several refracs in Haynesville this year.
And as you know we've budgeted several in the Haynesville and we also have a handful that we like in the Eagle Ford as well.
Okay.
Great.
And then one last question if you could just give us your thoughts on the Bossier? Well the Bossier is extensive throughout our acreage and it really develops more strongly on our Southern side of the acreage that we operate.
We have drilled several using older completion techniques with laterals less than 4 500 feet.
5 000 feet I think is our longest lateral in the Bossier play that has extensive opportunities for us going forward.
Okay.
Great.
Kim when you drill the Haynesville remember you drill to the Bossier and if you look at DeSoto Parish its extended laterals again you mentioned the 91 in the Haynesville and as we come up with 108 extended laterals in the Bossier that's your several hundred extended lateral wells right there.
Okay.
And there's – and how many of those locations would actually overlap? A bunch.
Yeah do you have map percentage? I mean we have – again we don't have a percentage.
I don't have the map in front of us.
Okay.
But it's significant.
Okay.
Great.
Well thanks a lot guys and congrats on those excellent two wells.
Thank you Kim.
Your next question will be from the line of Ron Mills Johnson Rice.
Hey Mack just a clarification on one of Kim's last questions the 91 Haynesville and 108 extended laterals in the Bossier that's not limited by – I guess let me ask it better.
Is that limited by unitization rules or is that just identified in I guess the better part of the area.
What's the limiting factor there? I suppose the total is 700.
So the limiting factor – sure Ron.
The limiting factor is basically how we set up the units so far.
We have a number of additional units that can set up that we haven't done so yet for extended lateral development especially on our southern acreage.
And remember Ron the return on – we think the laterals that you drilled per section now I think EP is doing that.
Chesapeake is doing that.
It's probably 4% less than the return we get on the extended laterals.
That's what our guess looks like.
So if you get a 35% rate of return for $10 million well that's extended lateral.
You maybe get a 30% 31% rate of return of just the section well.
But the point is that...
It's not what we're looking at.
And as far as the answer the – say the 200 locations we have right now that's really based just upon acreage.
It's not quality.
It's just based upon acreage because it's kind of hard to get contiguous acreage back to back to give the right to have extended laterals.
Okay.
All right.
And then also on the re-fracs in the Haynesville I know you – I think you had talked in the past about $1.5 million to $2 million and you just – today you gave us an idea of economics.
But one is that what your refrac cost you? Two you have 13 more refracs planned this year.
When are they going to occur? And then three any commentary on EUR uplift versus the production uplift that you've highlighted so far? Yes.
So our increment EUR – I'll answer the last question first – the EUR uplift is over 2 Bcf between 2 Bcf to 2.5 Bcf.
We feel like the cost structure on these refracs we can get it down to between $1.5 million to $1.8 million.
And in terms of timing we have two that are on our to-go list right now.
We're prioritizing for obvious reasons the use of our money.
We have several other AFEs that are circulating to partners.
I'm waiting for another couple of weeks here Ron to see if some of these other AFEs are approved.
And if so we'll be doing another refrac this month.
Okay.
Great.
And then on the Henry well anything – the batch of Henry wells that you mentioned in the release today the 764 BOE per day compared to the original – the rate on the original well of 1 200 BOE per day was there any differences in the way they were completed or flow back managed or any comments on that? They were not completed appreciably different.
We did manage the flow backs differently.
We went very gradually to the average IP rate.
We're a little more aggressive on the Henry A1 with the flow back.
I think these wells – the other Henry wells would have done a 1 000 BEO per day if we wanted to open them up much but we decided not to do that.
Great.
And then one last one any – I know you've had legacy acreage in North Louisiana and you used to have a lot of Cotton Valley activity way back when.
Any thoughts on prospectivity as the horizontal Cotton Valley in – coming from East Texas to North Louisiana heats up? Absolutely.
We've got – and I'm glad you asked that question because we've got a significant position as you know in the Cotton Valley.
As a matter of fact the production in the Cotton Valley is what held Haynesville and a lot of our acreage.
So we have it throughout the East Texas region and the West Louisiana we've mapped numerous opportunities for horizontal drilling in the Cotton Valley but it's HBP Ron so we're proceeding with the Haynesville program because of the high rate potential.
Okay.
Great.
Let me let someone else in.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thanks Ron.
Your next question comes from the line of David Amoss IBERIA Capital.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I'm just trying to get a feel for the trajectory in LOE as you switch back to the Haynesville through this year.
Can you just kind of give us your general thoughts about when that's going to dip and how much potentially? Well I'm looking at a nice little decrease in LOE not only because of the Haynesville rates.
As you know David I'm sure you do LOE per unit of production in natural gas play dry gas play it doesn't really need significant treatment to get it to market it's pretty darn low.
So as we increase the rates we'll be able to take advantage of economy of scales.
I think our LOE will go down by 10% or so at a minimum.
The other aspect of that is these are high-pressure high-rate wells they're not going to require compression.
So that's another big advantage that we can take – get the benefit of of course.
Unlike some other situations where the wells fall off fairly quickly in terms of pressure and you need compression these are totally different beasts.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> And a couple of other cost factors on the Haynesville the new wells are exempt from severance taxes for their first couple of years so that will be a plus.
And then our transportation rates to market as a lot of our commitments are coming; some of them are expiring this year.
We're going to – we're renegotiating some of them and we have a lot of uncommitted gas now.
So the transport rates are about a third of what they used to be.
So lots of positives as the new Haynesville gas comes in the numbers.
Remember none of it was in the first quarter not one molecule.
Those new wells came on in April.
So we'll see LOE improve and DD&amp;A improve.
So those are kind of the side effects from the Hayneville program.
And we should be able to book some good reserves by year-end with all these wells being drilled.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then Mack another question on the Eagle Ford refrac.
It sounds like you're going to have something planned for the second quarter.
Does that mean you're actually going to go in and refrac a well in the second quarter? And then how many of those do you think you need before you get comfortable enough to add that to the program? Well David that's – second quarter is our goal.
That's for sure.
We'd like to perform more than one Eagle Ford refrac in this quarter.
In terms of the uplift it'll – we have a number of models here 20% rate of return as you know our hurdle rate for going forward with any project in this environment.
And I always say for today's conversation that the preliminary economics that we've run significantly exceeds our hurdle rate.
So we're excited about the opportunity to go in refrac some of our older wells to get that uplift.
Got it.
And then one last one Jay.
If you don't mind just kind of relay out the decision matrix as you've seen the oil price come up what are the commodity prices that would lead you to add rigs in various plays or move them around a little bit this year? I think there's two answers to that.
One you have to tell me the commodity price for gas.
And if we got a $3 $3.50 price right now near-term gas is right at $2.90.
So $3 gas price $10 million drill and complete.
If we get that down to $9.5 million then you're looking at a 40% 42% rate of return on gas and you're going to add a lot of reserves.
So if you look at that prospect and you say well what comparable oil price do I need to be competitive like that then you got to start out with $65 oil and really go to $70-plus oil.
Because we have – again in the Eagle Ford we've got 100 – we're thinking about 125 locations and another 105 so we have 230 locations.
That's probably three years four years' worth of drilling I mean particularly in the world that we live in today.
So we think we've a got a great inventory of Eagle Ford locations and then at the same time we do think Goodrich is de-risking the TMS.
So we know we're right in the heart of the TMS.
If they can continue to de-risk that for several years we got another 300-plus locations there.
And then you add that in to the 1 200 locations in the Haynesville particularly the 200 extended laterals and we've got a really good kind of entrée of things that we can spend money on.
And at the same time we almost have $280 million of liquidity.
And like Roland said our CapEx budget this year we almost spent half of that in the first 90 days which is just not a good thing but it's a fact and it's over and now we're going to try to live within our cash flow.
So to answer that question I have to – I've got no idea on the commodity prices.
I like our oil upside.
I like our gas upside.
I like our realizations.
I like our locations and I like the fact that we haven't bought a big acreage position where you have to have four rigs or five rigs drilling to keep the acreage intact.
In fact the Haynesville HBP South Texas HBP we got to pay $3.5 million I think to keep our East Texas Eagle Ford totally intact and I think $7 million to the TMS and we've budgeted that in our CapEx.
So I like our position.
I don't like the fact that we have zero hedges.
That's not a good thing; it's a bad thing.
It showed up in the first quarter.
But the one thing that did show up in the first quarter at the side of Mack is that what we thought we could do in the Haynesville work to mean you can take a concept that the Chesapeake and others have said they've been participating in then all of a sudden we have our own wells and like Mack said that probably one of the two best wells we've ever drilled for gas wells ever.
And usually your first well or two wells are not your best.
So I think the future is pretty good for Comstock.
Hope that answers it.
It does.
Thanks guys for all the commentary.
Appreciate it.
Yes sir.
The next question will be from the line of Brian Corales Howard Weil.
Good morning guys.
Hi Brian.
Question on the refracking in the Eagle Ford.
Can you maybe talk about what the current production rates are of what you plan to refrac and what do think it can ultimately go to? Sure.
The wells that we're currently targeting are wells that make anywhere from 50 to 150 barrels of oil per day.
We think we can get to a 5 to 6 times uplift on those rates.
Those wells that we're targeting are on artificial lift.
They're older wells.
So of course we would get the artificial lift on the side of the road and prep the well for refrac and the well would be flowing after refrac for a significant period of time.
Typically it's about six months or so and then reinstall the artificial lift that we've set on the side.
Okay.
Helpful.
And similar type cost to the Haynesville? Yes $1.5 million to $1.8 million.
Okay.
And then more on the Haynesville I think if I remember correctly you all used to restrict the chokes and kind of have a flatter production profile.
Can you talk about – I think those were just test rigs.
Do you have anything longer term at the extended laterals and how do you plan to produce the wells? Are you going to kind of go back to the restricted choke? And I can't remember if it's 10 million or 15 million a day flat for a while.
What's the thoughts there? Well rather than talk about rates we'll talk about pressure drawdown at the completion.
Okay.
We're looking at – and we monitor this very closely.
We don't want to exceed a certain level of pressure drawdown across the completion.
So that drawdown is what dictates the flow rate.
Now these wells that we brought on and I'm glad you asked the question because the flowing pressures are so significantly higher than we anticipated that we're able to flow these wells at a significant rate without violating our pressure drawdown window.
So right now these wells IP'd at – one IP'd at 26 the other 22 and we're flowing them at around at an 18 million to 19 million a day rate.
And staying within our pressure drawdown window.
So these – the results are more than just about the rates.
It's about how can you flow the wells without putting excessive pressure drawdown across the completion and across the network of fractures that you've created thereby increasing.
If you did violate your window and the reason why the window is important is that you don't want to risk damaging the completion by putting too much pressure drawdown across it.
So we're pretty conservative right now about how we're approaching it.
So we're – and we plan to remain so going forward with the wells that we're going to complete.
We're going to let the pressure drawdown dictate the rate that we flow the wells.
And Brian I think Mack said earlier that our third well is halfway completed and we're waiting to complete the fourth and we're drilling the fifth.
So the program seems to be really really really working.
No very helpful.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Your next question will be from the line of Leo Mariani RBC.
Hey guys.
Just to follow-up on the Haynesville here.
Trying to get a sense of what the well cost were on those first couple wells.
And you guys indicated getting these well costs down to $9.5 million to $10 million.
Just wanted to get a sense if that included some service cost reductions to get down to those levels? Sure.
Yeah.
We're taking advantage of the service cost reductions.
If you look at this time last year the same wells would have cost us $14 million to $15 million and now we're talking $11 million and we're going to $10 million.
Obviously the real benefit of getting the 7 500-foot laterals in terms of cost is the economies of scale.
The cheapest part of the well is that last 2 500 feet on the lateral that we drill.
So that's a fairly minor cost adder but you're getting a huge cost savings in terms of just the D&amp;C cost Leo when you look at the fracs.
The fracs now are one-third to 40% of what they were costing just a few months ago.
So we think we can get the cost down into the $9.5 million $10 million range.
As far as the first two we were very very conservative going forward with our estimates and the first two averaged one was $10.8 million and the other one was $11.2 million.
So that's where we came up with $11 million.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess in terms of those first two wells can you just let us know when did those come on line? Did those make the first quarter at all? It sounds like maybe they didn't were those kind of early second quarter? No.
They were for the second quarter.
We brought them on in mid-April.
I think the beginning of the second week of April was well 1 and then well 2 was the third week of April.
Back to your original question on cost the other thing that's amazing is that the drilling times are coming down and we're talking with a 7 500-foot lateral.
So if you go back to our 5 000-foot lateral wells – one of the wells that we drilled of the three that we have now – or four pardon me one of them we set a record for drill time and despite the fact that it added another 2 500 feet of lateral line.
So that's a big plus as well in terms of the D&amp;C cost Leo.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just getting back to your acreage position of 69 000 net acres I wanted to get a sense if you had any breakdown of that acreage position by the different parishes? I'm trying to get a sense of how much of that is in DeSoto Parish.
We can get that to you later.
I don't have those numbers in front of me.
But we have a significant acreage position at DeSoto.
That's for sure.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Jeffrey Campbell Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I'll start out with a couple of Eagle Ford questions and then I'll return to the refracs which have been a pretty popular subject today.
I was just wondering did you have any 30-day rates from either the South or the East Texas Eagle Ford completions in the first quarter of 2015 and if numbers aren't handy can you qualify if the results are meeting your expectations? 30-day IP rates are probably in the range of 400 barrels a day to 500 barrels a day.
And yes they are meeting our expectations.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
With regard to the Lewis well did that well have any mechanical issues or was it just not a strong well? We drilled it in a high GOR area and that was one of the wells that further defined the gassy window in the play.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So that actually provided some of the data that informed the impairments that you discussed earlier on the call? Yes sir.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
And finally with regard to the refracs are you initiating any new perforations in these or is this entirely about repumping existing perfs and fractures and I'd like to add to that will refracking in the Haynesville differ technically from refracking in the Eagle Ford? The answer to your first question is yes and yes.
I mean we're going to – we have refrac candidates that don't require additional perforations and then we have some others that do.
I'm talking specifically about the Eagle Ford.
So we have candidates teed up on both sides of the aisle with regard to that.
The Haynesville refracs – is that – was that your other question on Haynesville refracs? Inc.</span></strong> I was just asking the second one was just is there anything that will really meaningfully differ technically because the Haynesville is dry gas and I'm assuming some of these wells you're going to refrac in Eagle Ford are wet right? Yes sir.
Inc.</span></strong> I was just wondering is there any notable technical differences in refracking one over the other? Yes.
One of the differences is the proppant selection.
The other is the use of 100 mesh and I'm talking about the Eagle Ford.
The proppant selection for the Eagle Ford is different from the proppant that we pump in the Haynesville.
In the Eagle Ford we use 40/70 and 30/50.
In the Haynesville we do not.
It's all 40/70.
The frac fluid in the Eagle Ford is a gel hybrid system and – whereas the frac fluid in the Haynesville is slick no gel whatsoever in order to carry the proppant.
So there are some significant technical differences and the pumping schedules vary as well.
But the trick is to get as high a proppant placement per cluster arrangement and per stage in both plays in order to improve the fracture network so that you get the uplift that you're really looking for.
Inc.</span></strong> That was great color.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
You bet.
Your next question will be from the line of Dan McSpirit BMO Capital.
Thank you and good morning.
Just...
Good morning Dan.
Good morning.
If I could revisit a few – with a few more questions on the refracs in the Haynesville shale.
First of all I just want to confirm that you stated you get as much as a 2.5 Bcf uplift for a drill and complete cost of anywhere from $1.5 million to $1.8 million.
Is that correct? Yes.
Okay.
And so if I consider that I come up with an implied F&amp;D cost of somewhere in the neighborhood of about $0.70 an Mcfe versus something closer to say $0.60 on a new well do you look at it the same way? I'm just trying to reconcile how capital should be going or why capital should be going to a refrac versus a new well? Well just a real quick response.
I mean we're talking about numbers that varied by $0.10 on a per unit basis.
So we've done one refrac and that was the result of our refrac.
We were quite pleased with it.
It compares favorably to other successes on refracs in the Haynesville.
We certainly know that as we do more of these jobs Dan we're going to get better and better at it.
We think the metrics are going improve right along with it.
In terms of comparing it to a new well with the refrac obviously you're pumping a job across the completion that's already received a frac.
And so you're using diverters in order to ensure that you open up the clusters the stages that have been previously fracked.
You know all of this I'm sure in your coverage of this whole business.
So the diverter placement and the pumping schedule is something that is evolving.
And we've met with all of the service companies and going through the databases that they have and looking at different ways to improve the efficiencies of the refrac.
So the bottom line for me is if for $1.5 million to $1.8 million or so I can get a 2.5 Bcf uplift incremental and that's on just our first well it's worth considering doing a few more in order to really identify how we can improve the process and get even better economics.
Our new wells speak for themselves I think.
Great.
That's helpful very helpful.
I appreciate that.
And if I could follow-up on the same subject of refracs appreciating that you have limited number of wells here and with very limited production history but do you see the shape of the decline curve or the first year decline rate being much different than that observed on a new well? Well it's a little early to tell.
Give me about three months Dan and I'll be able to give you a much better answer.
But right now they seem very similar.
Obviously the rates on the refracs are much lower so it's hard to compare a $20 million a day well to a $3.5 million a day well but in terms of decline that we've got less than 60 days of history on.
But right now I can tell you that our type curve and all the modeling that's been done on both of those type of projects we're right on type curves.
So no issues here.
Okay.
Great.
And what is the base decline rate of the company today and where do you see it say at the end of this year or even the end of 2016 based on how capital is being allocated today? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Hey Dan.
This is Roland.
Yeah the base decline in our oil is steeper because of the new – so many new oils and the transition to artificial lift for many of the oil wells happens this year.
And so when we make that transition and finish it it'd be a lower decline.
So I think we've always said that overall decline based on kind of a year-on-year basis is somewhere in the 30% to 40%.
And gas is probably 18% kind of without the new Haynesville program.
But as we add the new wells I guess that will change.
That decline rate will probably increase as these big new wells kind of take over a large percentage of the gas production.
Okay.
Great.
And a couple more if I could squeeze them in.
What is the cost to retain the 82 000 net acres in the TMS and could you sketch for us the lease expiry schedule on that leasehold? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> This year the cost for extensions is about $7 million $7.5 million which we've budgeted in our budget.
The rest of our budget is to do some extensions in our Burleson area.
So that would retain the acreage.
There's a few – if we can operate a unit in the TMS I don't think we're going to make any great attempt to keep that acreage.
There's a lot of units that we can operate in the TMS.
So a lot of them have extensions that can over the next two years to three years that can kick in.
And so mostly that's how we're doing is using automatic extenders.
Okay.
Great.
Last one from me.
And then beyond preserving liquidity what do you see to be the way out in this low commodity price environment? For example should an acquisition be contemplated where the balance sheet is maybe over-equitized in the process or is it just best to wait it out for higher prices? Well we think we've got good assets.
I mean we need it to change the economic valuation in Haynesville which I think the – and that's a key objective for this year but I think the best answer for Comstock is to wait it out.
I mean there's – we got – we don't need new assets and we need a little bit higher commodity prices and there's a lot of other options the company can look at if we want to bring in partners as we proved up the quality of the assets.
And – but with that we put enough liquidity we have it in place to wait it out.
I think that's the best answer versus doing something that's very – not going to get an instant fix in this environment.
And if we got one it'd be very painful to the existing holders so we would rather wait it out and then look to continue to improve the cost structure improve the economics of the wells build reserves in the Haynesville our biggest asset and look for opportunities to bring in capital maybe do some non-core project assets sales.
So just a variety of things but an instant fix would be more commodity prices coming back up and putting in some protective hedges for next year.
Those are our goals for next year.
Got it.
Thanks again for taking my questions.
Thanks Dan.
Your next question will be from the line of Gregg Brody Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just some questions on the bond buyback.
So it was bought back a small amount just $2 million.
What's – is there a strategy to that that we should think about going forward? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Gregg there's not a specific strategy.
I mean they're an incredible investment opportunity but we have to weigh that against preserving liquidity.
And so as we look at – I think that this – we would like to be able to do more of that but only have kind of a modest amounts that – we're budgeted for that without bringing in some – new sources of capital without using our existing liquidity.
But again maybe a strategy might if we have some non-core assets we can get a really good price for that could provide some capital to – that would let us to retire that debt at a big discount like those are – it's obviously a compelling opportunity that we look at ways to take advantage of the best we can.
Do you have anything that you're actively marketing right now that you could sell that would help you to generate proceeds or something like that? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> We're not actively marketing any properties because of the commodity price outlook.
We don't know if it's ideal time.
But we are dealing with quite a bit of inquiries from – inbound inquiries on different properties and obviously looking at potential – to the extent they throw out a number that we think is good.
So I think it's a possibility but we're not actively pursuing an aggressive strategy until we kind of see some transactions clear the market and kind of get a good idea of what they can clear it at.
What's your understanding of your limitation as to what you can buy back in terms of bonds with respect to the new...
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah.
There's a limited amount especially under the new credit facility we have.
I think that number is like $5 million.
Got it.
And then you mentioned living within cash flows your goal.
Could you tell us what your current production is today and if you are in fact living within cash flow? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> I don't – we don't have the current production rate right now with all the new stuff coming on.
But it's obviously big uplift to gas since none of those new gas projects were on in the first quarter from where we were in the – where we were earlier in the first quarter.
As far as cash flow I don't want – I think we're still slightly not within cash flow yet not at the current commodity prices.
I think that is a key since our shift to gas.
I think getting gas up to over $3 then we get pretty close.
Yeah.
That's our corporate goal.
And your realizations were a little bit different than historical.
Is what you had last quarter what we should think about for the rest of the year or is there something...
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> No.
I think they have improved a lot.
I think last – first quarter was – one the timing of production was given there were such rapid changes of prices in the quarter it's a very strange quarter as far as realizations because production was at level throughout the quarter for either oil or gas.
And you had a rapid change in prices.
But as – I think we'll see in crude realizations especially in the Haynesville where we're going to have better marketing arrangements with the new gas.
Again none of that was in the first quarter.
Got you.
So is it – the sort of – so to go back to historical levels of sort of 95% of NYMEX makes sense and then take it back to pretty much 99% of crude oil WTI is the right way to think about it? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah.
I think when you look at differentials and this is for the whole industry not just us I mean using percentages is not the best way because a lot of embedded transportation cost and differentials are fixed.
So when you have low prices it tends to – those become a bigger percentage.
So I think that's also just kind of the relative nature of where we are at low prices.
But those very few – I mean very few of our transportation marketing arrangements are percentage-based.
They're just actual deducts for hauling oil or transporting gas that are fixed in nature.
So the percentages...
Got it.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> ...will be different.
Yeah.
But the improvement in oil prices you're seeing some improvement? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yes.
I got it.
And then just...
The best way to look at it is to take a number historically and then I think you'll be a lot closer not a percentage.
And just two quick ones for you.
You mentioned lack of hedging.
Are there any thoughts to maybe lock in some hedges on crude here with the move in oil prices? Yeah.
Obviously the moves are getting us close to our targets for oil.
I mean it's probably going to be – I think our – for this year the horse is probably out of the barn as far as getting good hedges in.
But definitely we're very – we've got targets that we like on both the oil and gas and we'd like to have a hedge position that works for us for next year but patient in putting it in place because often very low prices aren't going to be helpful at all.
But definitely crude has made the biggest move to getting to the targets.
And then one last clarification.
You laid out very nicely the opportunity in the Haynesville and the Bossier but your – the Bossier opportunity the 108 wells is there a chance you get to that this year at all? And maybe just one other just the refrac opportunity.
It sounds like you have second-half-weighted is there a split between Haynesville and Eagle Ford that we should think about? I think on the Bossier yeah I think given a limited amount of projects that we have in the budget I don't see the Bossier – trying to do a Bossier well this year.
If we do it it might be late in the year.
And on refracs the mix is kind of – I think a lot of it will be up to logistics partner approval.
And then the first kind of seeing how the first Eagle Ford refrac comes together.
The one factor in refrac is if we do have a partner it takes a 100% approval because it's an existing producing well.
And then we've got other considerations.
If we're doing a refrac of a Haynesville well we have a one well holding the section and that's the only well that's still in the section.
We may kind of be very cautious about wanting to refrac it just to not to have to create a drilling obligation.
So there's a lot of – so it's really a – there's a lot of potential candidates but there's a lot of considerations to when you pull the trigger.
And their timing is less predictable than the new wells.
But again things were getting a little ahead of schedule on the new wells and they're the biggest driver of our production numbers.
I appreciate all the color guys.
Thank you for the time.
Thanks Gregg.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Ron Mills Johnson Rice.
Just real quick.
Mack on the 186 producing wells in the Haynesville you said you have 186 potential refrac.
Is that – I mean all your producing wells there were there any potential limitations on some producing wells? And I guess the same question on the Eagle Ford.
Yeah.
Ron that 186 basically suggest that every well that we have in the play is deserving of an evaluation so – for refrac so it is a candidate.
And I think I mentioned earlier in the call that we're prioritizing and we're well into that whole process of which wells are immediate candidates for project execution part of the criteria is obviously partner approval but there are many other criteria that we use how under-stimulated was the original completion on a Haynesville well et cetera.
And the same criteria is applicable to the Eagle Ford as well with one exception that we feel like getting partner approval in our Eagle Ford opportunities would be far less cumbersome a process.
So I think the question earlier was what's the split between our Eagle Ford and Haynesville refrac candidate list.
We're starting to build a robust candidate list on both sides of that question.
And so I like having the option of being able to execute either/or.
But right now it appears that our executable Eagle Ford refrac list is ahead of where I thought it would be at this point.
So that's why I'm pretty optimistic that we can get some of these jobs executed in the second quarter.
Okay.
Good.
And then secondly Roland for you just production trajectory here it sounds like at least between now and year-end oil should continue to decline – should it – can decline pretty ratably over the remainder of the year.
And then on gas I know you obviously expect it to average almost 50% higher than it did for the first quarter.
I guess the same question there or how does that trajectory build? Because at some point is it more of a second half growth or does that growth on the gas side start here in the second quarter? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> No it starts in the second quarter luckily with the big – with the – as long as Mack keeps producing those wells at the good rates.
And there we do have 100% interest in those two first wells so that's good.
The – on the oil I think the – there's a little bit steeper decline that really starts in the third quarter.
We do have some new stuff coming on to soften the second quarter but definitely some decline will start there but then maybe be a little bit higher decline rate going from second to third.
And then a lot depends on how the artificial lift program goes as we put a lot of that work gets finished in the third quarter.
And then when you do the refracs particularly when you start thinking about – you have the offset frac activity.
Was the offset frac activity more in the Haynesville or was it the Eagle Ford that impacted the first quarter? It was the Haynesville Ron.
Okay.
Yeah.
We shut in some of our wells to accommodate the refrac – or the frac scheduling and as well as the refrac that we did we shut in a couple of wells there but primarily the shut-ins were due to the new well fracs that we were conducting.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah.
Most of the – in oil side a lot of it was the artificial lift installation...
Right.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> ...and the disruptive they are to production.
Okay.
Great.
All right.
Thanks for the clarifications.
You bet.
We have another follow-up question coming from the line of Kim Pacanovsky Imperial Capital.
Yeah.
Hey again.
I'm just wondering when those Haynesville wells came back on line if you saw any uplift from those wells like Chesapeake has been talking about? Yeah Kim we did and that's a great question.
I'm glad you asked that one too.
We had offset wells to each of our first two that we shut in and they were shut in approximately 2.5 weeks.
And when we brought them back on the production levels were 3 times to 4 times higher than they were prior to shut in.
So there was very little doubt that we did get some re-pressurization due to the frac on the new wells.
So that was an added benefit for sure.
Now we're evaluating the durability of that uplift.
And so we can't really make a prediction in terms of incremental EUR benefit that sort of thing.
But right now it's been about 2.5 weeks 3 weeks and they're still producing an elevated rate.
So that's definitely a benefit.
Great.
And can you just give us an idea of what those rates were before and after? Sure.
Before one well was 1 million a day and now it's 3.5 million a day.
Another well was 750 000 a day and it's about 2.8 million a day now.
Those are the two that I remember.
Great.
Okay.
A couple of others that fall in the same category.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
The next question will be from the line of Chris Stevens KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just a quick follow-up on the refracs how long do you guys expect the well – your first refrac to kind of stick around the 3.5 million a day and what are the modeling assumptions for first year cumulative production on the 2 Bcf to 2.5 Bcf EUR? Well right now it's 3.5 million a day and the pressure is staying up there around 2 600 pounds 2 700 pounds.
So we feel like line pressures – goes into a high line pressure system around 800 pounds.
So we feel like this high rate is going to stay with us for a significant period of time.
The percentage of EUR in the first year is probably around 25% to 30%.
So we've got at least 750 million 700 million in the first year.
So the benefit of the refrac is pretty significant.
And we like the contribution for relatively low cost the economics as we've mentioned are definitely positive.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Okay.
And can you just remind us how much proppant did you guys use in your first two enhanced completion design in the Haynesville and are you guys going to test maybe anything else out there to try to further optimize the wells? Are you going to stick with this current design right now? I think in the design approach that we're taking Chris it's more is better in terms of proppant placement.
To answer your question we pumped about 23 million pounds of total proppant in each well 40/70 sand along with 100 mesh.
So we're looking at the – and the first that's we pumped 30 stages.
27 stages 28 stages went at below gradient.
So in other words we feel like we could place more proppant.
And so we're looking at probably the fourth well we'll try placing a little more proppant per stage.
The proppant loading is about 750 000 pounds per stage.
We may bump that a little bit 800 000 pounds or so 850 000 perhaps pounds per stage.
So that's the kind of parameters we're looking at.
Certainly the whole goal here as everybody knows is to create the most complex interconnected fracture system along that 7 500-foot lateral that we can so the more proppant/fluid that we pump per stage the better.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you Chris.
Your next question will be from the line of Dan Guffey Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Appreciate all the color today.
Just a quick one on hedges you guys had talked about having targets for oil and gas prices for layering in some hedges in 2016 care to share what prices those are? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> No we don't really want to share that publicly.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
And then secondly you guys mentioned you're not actively marketing any assets but you have had some inquiries I'm wondering if any of those inquiries are from financial partners on future Haynesville development like what you've had from KKR in South Texas.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Primarily they've – we've been there with other operators that have been interested in specific properties.
And some of them we said no we're not sellers but some of them we said well you can give us a number if we could – especially where we saw those properties being non-core to see what the market would be.
So – but I think as the year progresses and we've had some dialog in the past about private equity or other type passive kind of participants in a joint venture with some of the properties.
And I think that – as we establish the economics especially of the Haynesville/Bossier program and we have a vast resource there that may be something we entertain toward the second half of the year especially if we see stronger gas price curve.
Dan I would say that we've not been calling anyone to find a partner but we've had both private equity and other companies call us to ask if we would partner on some of the properties.
And so we've received those phone calls.
Same thing we've had incoming calls on some of the oilfields that we own and we said well maybe you can take a look at them.
We don't really think that in the market we're in somebody is going to pay fair value.
So I don't think you should get your expectations up.
But again we've received a lot of incoming calls which probably is an indication that they like our South Texas Eagle Ford because we haven't infield drilled any wells there.
We've got 80-acre and 100-acre spacing.
We've got – we think an exemplary refracking program; same thing with our East Texas Eagle Ford.
We've written off maybe 40% of that.
So we have completely decided that the Southern part is too gassy.
We've got better gas which is the Haynesville but we like our position in our northern acreage.
And then I think the Haynesville kind of speaks for itself.
So it's a good position and I think we can hold on to our liquidity.
And in the second quarter gas prices and oil prices are a lot better than they were in the first quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Well great I appreciate all the good color there I guess.
Thank you.
All right.
Derek again thank you for hosting the conference call.
And some quarters are better than others and this was not a good one not only for us but it's a hard time to be in the E&amp;P business.
And our goal in the first quarter was to give you some results be clear about that and then also guide you to what we think we can do in the second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter of 2015 with the market is as it is.
I thought one of the really good questions was where will you allocate your money and the answer to that was it depends upon where the commodity price is because we do have a really good inventory of oil and gas projects in the future.
And again I'm very pleased that Mack is back as the COO to help guide the company as he did from 1987 to 2011.
So anyhow thank you for your time.
I know it's an hour or so.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Comstock Resources Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call may be recorded.
At this time I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Jay Allison Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Sir you may begin.
Perfect thank you Saeed and welcome to the Comstock Resources second quarter 2015 financial and operating results conference call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and downloading the quarterly results presentation.
There you will find a presentation titled second quarter 2015 results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock and with me is Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer and Mack Good our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2015 second quarter operating and financial results and our plan for the rest of this year.
This has been a tough environment for the sector and for us as well with a severe decline in oil prices.
But the one major bright spot the positive spot we have to share today with our stakeholders is the excellent results in our Haynesville shale program which Mack will review during this call.
Please refer to slide 2 in our presentations and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations of such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
If you will turn to slide 3 our 2015 Q2 highlights.
This slide provides an overview that the second quarter where low oil and gas prices continue to negatively impact our financial results.
Our realized oil price fell by 43% and our average realized natural gas price declined by 46% in the second quarter.
The 10% increase we had in our gas production was not enough to overcome this low price as our oil and gas sales fell by 50% to $77 million EBITDAX came in at $48 million and cash flow from operations at $15 million or $0.33 per share.
Our operations on the first half of the year were focused on ramping up our oil drilling program and restarting our Haynesville shale program with our improved completion design.
Our first five extended lateral wells in Haynesville were excellent with an average IP rate of 23 million per day per well.
Our first two re-fracs of producing Haynesville shale wells were also successful and added bonus which Mack will talk about in a moment is the uplift seven producing wells got from the newly drilled wells where we had a 15 million a day gain in production.
We are very pleased with the first five wells which were producing above our 15.6 Bcf type curve.
We've taken several steps to both drive liquidity in this poor environment that we're in.
In March we completed a $700 million bond offering which paid off our bank credit facility and added liquidity to our balance sheet.
In July we sold our Burleson County properties for $115 million.
We have no debt maturities until 2019 and have total liquidity pro forma for the sale of $283 million.
In order to safeguard our liquidity we have significantly reduced our drilling expenditures for the remainder of 2015.
Please refer to slide 4 in our presentation where we summarize our recent sale of our East Texas Eagle Ford properties.
On July 22 we completed the sale of our East Texas Eagle Ford operations to a private firm for $115 million.
We sold these properties to enhance our liquidity after we decided they were non-core due to disappointing drilling results.
We would have been required to drill two or three wells next year to retain all the leases in the oil window proved reserves related to these properties were 3.9 million barrels of oil equivalent.
We received good value for the undrilled acreage in the oil window in this transaction.
These properties produced 267 000 barrels of oil and 649 Mcf of gas in the first six months of 2015.
This represents about 9% of our total oil and 2% of our total gas production.
We did realize a loss of $112 million on this transaction for this quarter.
I'll now turn it over to Roland Burns to review the second quarter results in more detail.
Roland? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</strong> Thanks Jay.
On slide 5 we recap our oil production.
Oil production averaged 10 200 barrels per day in the second quarter which was a 17% decrease from the second quarter of last year.
With the rapid fall in oil prices we shut down our oil drilling program in late December and with little drilling activity planned for this year in oil we expect oil production to decline further.
In the second half of the year taking into account the sale of our East Texas Eagle Ford properties we're expecting oil production to average between 7 000 and 8 000 barrels per day.
Slide 6 shows our natural gas production.
With our new Haynesville well starting to come online our gas production grew 10% from 2014 second quarter to 122 million cubic feet per day.
Gas production was up 35% from the first quarter rate of 91 million per day.
We expect our Haynesville production to continue growing in the next two quarters.
For all of 2015 we estimate our gas production will average between 125 million cubic feet per day to 150 million cubic feet per day.
We recently added some natural gas hedges at $3.20 per Mcf starting in July for the next 12 months as detailed on slide 7.
These hedges only cover 10 million per day of our gas production but it represents a start to the hedge position we're seeking to build for 2016 to support our Haynesville drilling program next year.
On slide 8 we summarize our second quarter financial results.
We had a 10% increase in gas production offset by a 17% decrease in our oil production in the quarter.
This combined with 45% lower oil prices and 46% lower gas prices caused our revenues cash flow and EBITDAX to decline.
Revenues this quarter were down 50% to $77 million EBITDAX was down to $48 million and cash flow was $15 million or $0.33 per share.
Lifting costs in the quarter were up 6% with additional cost that we had to add artificial lift to our oil production.
But our DD&amp;A was down 4% due to improvement in our DD&amp;A rate this quarter.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the quarter was $5.43 per Mcfe which improved 14% from the first quarter rate of $6.35.
Our G&amp;A cost were down 25% to this quarter to $7 million.
During the second quarter we incurred a loss from the sale of oil and gas properties of $112 million related to the East Texas Eagle Ford sale and we had impairments on oil and gas properties and unevaluated leases of $25 million.
We also had unrealized hedging gains of $600 000 and a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $7.3 million.
Including these charges we had a $135 million loss or $2.93 per share this quarter.
If you exclude these items we had a net loss of $51 million or $1.11 per share.
Slide 9 summarizes the financial results for the first half of this year.
For the first half this year oil production was down 4% and our gas production was down 9% from 2014.
This combined with the 50% lower oil prices and 47% lower gas prices caused our – again caused our revenues cash flow and EBITDAX to be lower.
Revenues for the first six months were down 52% to $144 million EBITDAX was $88 million and cash flow was $35 million or $0.76 per share.
Lifting costs for the first half of this year were down about 5% with the lower sales numbers and our DD&amp;A rate was just down slightly.
Our general and administrative costs decreased 16% in the first half of this year to a total of $15 million.
And we had – the unusual items for the first six months we had the loss on the sale of $112 million.
Total impairments of properties and unevaluated leases of $66 million and we had drilling rig termination fees we paid at $1.8 million.
We also had an unrealized hedging gain of $600 000 and a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $4.5 million.
Now with these charges we had a $214 million loss or $4.64 per share for the first six months this year and without these items we had a net loss of $100 million or $2.18 per share.
On slide 10 we detail our capital expenditures so far this year.
We spent $169 million on drilling and exploration activities excluding $7 million that we spend on acreage.
Spending in the second quarter fell to $48 million as compared to the $129 million we spend in the first quarter.
We expect spending to decline further in the second half of this year to a total of $68 million.
As shown on slide 11 our budget remains unchanged for a total of $248 million to be spent on drilling and exploration and acreage acquisitions.
As Mack will explain it and as we currently plan to do fewer refracs but may substitute another new well on our Haynesville program for the amounts budgeted for the refracs.
Slide 12 recaps our balance sheet at the end of the second quarter.
We had a $130 million of cash on hand and about $1.4 billion of total debt outstanding on June 30.
The pro forma for the sale of the East Texas Eagle Ford assets in Burleson County we would have cash of $233 million and on that basis our net debt would represent 56% of our total book capitalization.
We no longer have a bank facility that's limited to burrowing base and we are not subject to any upcoming redeterminations for the next several years.
We do have a four-year $50 million bank commitment.
So our total liquidity pro forma for the sale is about $283 million.
We have retired $16.8 million in face amount of our 9.5% bonds so far in the first six months of this year for a cash payment of $7.8 million and we recognized the gain of $9 million on these repurchases.
We'll continue to repurchase some of our debt this year at attractive prices but will balance that opportunity with maintaining adequate liquidity to get through this down cycle.
Our first debt maturities do not come due until 2019 giving us a long runaway to survive this cycle.
I will now hand it over to Mack Good.
Thanks Roland.
And good morning everybody.
As you and Jay have already indicated today we're currently focusing on executing our Haynesville high deliverability gas projects and I think that our first and second quarter results confirm that our new drilling and completion approach is the right one.
It's definitely providing both repeatable and predictable results.
Slide 13 shows locations of 69 000 net acres in Haynesville and Bossier Shales.
It also shows that we have nine new Haynesville wells planned for the year along with 14 refracs I'll talk more about the refracs in a minute.
During the first quarter of this year as everybody knows we completed our previously drilled Eagle Ford oil projects and we quickly move toward executing the first of our extra long lateral Haynesville gas well projects.
Slide 14 summarizes why we're focused on Haynesville.
As part of this effort we significantly changed the previous completion design strategy that we and everybody else had commonly used in the past on the shorter lateral length Haynesville wells.
We did this so we could better place more profit per foot at lateral length better stimulate the reservoir and improve gas recovery rates and EURs.
In fact we announce the results from our first two wells in the first quarter confirming that we were on to something.
Both of these first quarter wells had a lateral length over 7 400 feet long and then an initial production rate over 20 million a day.
As evidence of the many opportunities we have in Haynesville we've mapped 704 Haynesville locations on our acreage including 91 with extended laterals.
In addition we have 532 Bossier locations including 108 with extended laterals.
And last but not least we have also prioritized 186 refrac candidates within our Haynesville and Bossier assets.
As of today we have drilled and completed five horizontal Haynesville shale wells this year using our new design as shown on slide 15.
Each have lateral lengths of at least 7 400 feet and each received a 30-stage fracture treatment using a total of over 20 million pounds of propane and each of this new wells have delivered over 20 million a day in initial production rates.
Our current total drilling and completion costs for our extended lateral Haynesville wells is around $10 million and we believe that we are going to be able to lower this to $9.5 million in the very near future.
During the second quarter we continued our Haynesville success by completing three additional wells in the DeSoto Parish Louisiana and within our Logansport field area as shown on slide 16.
Just like our first two wells in the first quarter these three well also have lateral lengths over 7 400 foot long and IP rates over 20 million a day.
Just to summarize thanks for everybody I'll quickly give you the stats on these three wells we completed in the second quarter.
We drilled the Boggess 5-8 #1 well to a vertical depth of 11 306 feet for the 7 430-foot lateral and tested at an IP rate of 21 million a day.
After that we drilled the Horn 8-17 #2 well to a vertical depth of 11 216 feet for the 7 400 foot lateral and it also tested with an IP of 21 million a day.
Our third well the Harrison 30-19 #1 well was drilled to a vertical depth of 11 405 feet for the 7 437 foot lateral and it tested with an IP rate of 24 million a day.
During the second quarter we also continued to investigate the refrac potential within our Haynesville well inventory.
We performed our secondary frac by retreating the Bagley A #4 using around 4 million pounds of proppant and diverter material to restimulate the well and this well IPed at 3 million a day which was a six fold increase over its production before the refract.
We will continue to monitor this well's performance in order to gain an estimate of the incremental EUR benefit on the well.
On slide 17 we plot our 15.6 Bcf type curve for our extended lateral Haynesville shale wells.
As you can see all of our wells are producing above this type curve.
So we're obviously very pleased with the results.
Not reflected in the EURs assigned to the new wells is the increased production and pressure increase seven offset wells near our first four new Haynesville gas wells.
The offset well production currently amounts to an additional 15 million a day.
So far each offset wells production profile is following its original decline but at a much higher rate and pressure.
We will continue to monitor the offset well production in order to evaluate the long-term EUR benefits to each well.
We will also see if wells near our fifth well are positively impacted and we expect them to be.
As for refracs the efforts by numerous operators and service providers to refrac wells above the Haynesville and Eagle Ford this year is definitely providing a slow but steady improvement in both refrac candidate selection methods and refrac treatment designs.
We believe that a large number of our wells in both our Haynesville and Eagle Ford plays will benefit from a refrac.
But given the prevailing low oil prices and the fact that we're seeing significant offset Haynesville well production boost from our new completions we've decided to postpone our refrac projects.
As a result of postponing our refrac program we have the option to use the amount budgeted for these projects to drill an additional well as Roland mentioned earlier.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Mack thank you Roland thank you.
If you were to go slide 18 our plan for 2015 I will summarize our plan for the rest of the year.
We're still on the exact same path that we presented with our last conference call as our Haynesville program is exceeding our expectations as Mack just showed you.
Our achieved results are demonstrating that our improved completion design has substantially improved the economics of the Haynesville play.
We have a vast resource play in the Haynesville with our 6 Tcf of reserve potential and over 1 200 mapped drilling locations.
The play is near the Gulf Coast market which offers premium price realizations compared to other regions in the country and unlike most Haynesville operators we are not burdened by expensive above market gathering and firm transportation obligations.
We've a good inventory of all oil projects to pursue once oil prices improve and stabilize including 105 future operated Eagle Ford shale locations and 327 future operated Tuscaloosa Marine Shale locations.
We'll continue to maintain a low cost structure as we have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry and are working to lower our drilling and overhead cost wherever we can.
We will continue to safeguard our balance sheet and with the recent closed shale of our East Texas Eagle Ford properties we have $283 million of liquidity and have significantly reduced our spending for the rest of the year to conserve this liquidity.
For the rest of the call we'll take questions only from the research analysts who follow the company.
Saeed I'll turn it back over to you.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Kim Pacanovsky from Imperial Capital.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Kim.
It was a bold move to return to the Haynesville and I know there were a lot of doubters out there but you are starting to see dividends now.
So congratulations on that.
I just wanted to talk about the uplifted offset wells.
If they do indeed continue to behave with the normal decline and just so you assume maybe the credit of one offset per virgin well what would the IIRs look like at – I'm sure you've modeled this out at – pick a $10 million cost and a $3 gas price how does that improve the IIR of the new drill well? Kim if you just look at the production boost from the seven wells and assume what you just mentioned we're looking at a – at a $10 million cost we're looking at around – at $2.50 gas looking about a 30% rate of return and at $3 gas close to 48%.
So and that's at a $2.50 rate.
Okay great.
Not too shabby.
And are your IIRs fully loaded? Yes.
Yes.
Okay good.
And then on the cash the cash actually dropped more than I had anticipated this quarter.
And I missed Roland what you said about what was spent on repurchasing the bonds but can you just go through that and also if there's been a change on the payables? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yes Kim.
The question on the change in cash I think this quarter is when we saw a pretty significant change in working capital and as we went from a much larger 4 rig to 5 rig drilling program to a 1 rig program there's a big big change in the kind of the accrued cost related to that program which we saw almost all of that happen this quarter.
So that was about $57 million of working capital turnaround which is most of the $60 million we kind of expected with the change in the capital program.
So I think this quarter saw most of that velocity in spending kind of run through on the cash balance.
We did spend as you point out a few dollars on repurchasing some bonds also in the quarter but the biggest change...
What was that amount Roland? What was the amount repurchased – or the amount you spent actually? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> That we spent? We spent about $7 million in the second quarter of cash...
Okay.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> ...to retire about $16 million of bonds.
Okay great.
And I'm just going to sneak one more in.
As you start to move East in your acreage what are the expectations for how these wells will behave as you move further East in acreage? We anticipate the same level of performance Kim.
There's no reason based on the geological mapping that we have to believe they would perform otherwise.
Great all right.
That's all I have.
Thank you ma'am.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Don Crist from Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Hi Don.
I'll just start on the bond repurchases; what is your appetite going forward? I mean I know you have $233 million pro forma and you want to keep some liquidity going into 2016 but what is your appetite given that your bonds are trading pretty low right now to repurchase more of those? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah that's a good question and that's a balancing act that we have to do.
It's a great opportunity to retire debt at the – where the bonds are trading for.
Of course the bonds are hard to get.
So it's not easy to execute on because it's very small volume in the bonds.
But with the sale we think we can get a little more aggressive on that but we'll have to balance that.
We're trying to target to end the year with – our goal is to end the year with $200 million of liquidity or mostly $200 million of cash.
So we are kind of – as the year progresses decide how much of the sales proceeds we can use toward retiring additional bonds.
Okay.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> (24:05) but again also target to keep good liquidity at the end of the year.
Right.
And just to touch on the refrac program I mean it's been an excellent program but I know you've run into some challenges with working interest partners et cetera trying to come up with capital to fund that program on their part.
But looking towards 2016 would you – given the current environment and where it is and commodity prices if they – assuming they stay where they're at today could you drop your operated rig and go to a refrac program solely to conserve capital and further protect your balance sheet? Well I think we have that option that's certainly the case.
We have so many refract candidates that offers that opportunity up but on the other hand with one rig several offsets that are positively impacted by the completion so in effect you get that free benefit from a refrac.
So again I think it will be a mixture of taking advantage of the opportunities in front of us rather than all of one and none of the other.
Okay.
Don we look – the four wells Mack talked about or you have seven offset wells that have a 15 million net production increase I mean that's almost like a free well.
Our IP rates come in at 20 plus million little north of that and we pull them back so there is 15.5 Bcf type curve it's almost like after that fourth well with those seven offset wells being materially impacted you get a free well which goes back to Kim's economics.
So we didn't know that going into first quarter we really didn't put going into the second quarter and as we compared our results with some other operators in the area you found out that those results are real.
So we go into a 2016 budget we'll factor that in too.
The problem with the refracs which we're big proponents of refracs both in the Haynesville and our South Texas Eagle Ford is that when oil and/or gas prices are lower.
It's a little hard to do that because the (26:30) from the non-operators is dried up and it's really hard to get consensus.
So it's not an issue whether they work.
We're two out of two.
I think some other companies in the Haynesville area reported they've had great success.
So it's not a question of success I think they work better if prices are little higher just because you can get the consents from the non-operators.
Just to add something real quick to what Jay just mentioned we're not solely focused on the Haynesville refrac program we also have opportunities in the Eagle Ford and of course low oil prices the economics are not quite as appealing as we would like them to be.
So once we get a little help in the marketplace you will see us in the Eagle Ford doing some refracs.
Okay.
And one more if I could sneak it in? Can you tell me what your current AFEs are on your most recent refrac and the new drill wells right now in Haynesville? Yeah.
Refrac AFEs are around $2 million in the Haynesville and the drilling compete on our 7500 foot laterals is around $10 million and we anticipate being able to move that down toward the $9.5 million range in toward the end of our program this year.
All right.
Thank you.
That's all I've got.
Thanks.
Thank you Don.
Thank you.
[Operator Instruction] Our next question comes from Gregg Brody from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Nice work on the Haynesville wells.
I was curious you've laid out there's 90 prospective extended laterals in DeSoto.
What's the – how many of those do you think you've de-risked with the five wells you've drilled and how do we – how do you expect to de-risk the remaining over the next year or two? And maybe you can talk about the Bossier wells as well if you're going to go after those? Well we haven't completed our planning for FY 2016 because of the variables involved but certainly we have a number of opportunities there in Y2015.
We're currently drilling our sixth well we'll be on our seventh well by the end of the month.
We have a short lateral Haynesville well planned for the ninth well and as mentioned we have an optional 10th well that we're considering we can drill either a short lateral long lateral Haynesville well or look at a long lateral Bossier well.
So we're evaluating those cases.
Back to Y2016 right now we're looking at the same kind of program in Y2016 perhaps pared down a little bit but we haven't firmed anything up.
Do you think is there a way to quantify what you've de-risked? Well a lot of the de-risking and you're talking about the extra long lateral Haynesville wells? Yeah I think that sort of the 90 you've listed there and then on the Bossier you have 108 right? A number of the – the Haynesville largely been de-risked by the short lateral wells we've previously drilled.
We have significant geological mapping significant hard data from wells that have already been completed.
So going into the program in Y2015 of the extra long lateral program we were extremely confident that we were going to see the type curve achievements that we've seen and in fact as shown earlier we're exceeding those expectations.
So largely just to be real quick with the answer we've derisked the Haynesville previously and now we're taking advantage of the technological enhancements from drilling the longer lateral and completion techniques.
That's helpful.
And then just coming back to the bond buybacks could you remind us what the governor is for you? What's the limitation today on buying back bonds and did you get any amendments from your bank lenders to do up to a certain amount? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yes Gregg.
The limiter is probably in our new credit facility as the common bank facility has limitations on lots of transactions that you just get permission for and including the sales so we obviously got permission to complete the Burleson divestiture in the bank with a bank amendment and we also increased the amount that we can spend on debt retirement of any type to $50 million.
So you (31:40) $50 million.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> If we looked at other type of transactions we simply would go to the banks and ask permissions but that's kind of where we are right now.
And that's $50 million of total spending or face value? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> No.
Of total spending.
And your second lien bonds don't restrict that in any way? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> No that's – yeah they obviously don't restrict buying themselves back yeah.
Great.
Thank you for the clarification.
I am going to hop off.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Stevens from KeyBanc.
Your line is up.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Great job out there in the Haynesville I was hoping you guys could maybe quantify some of the efficiency gains that you are seeing out there.
What was the spud to TD on the latest well? How does that compare to the first well? And then as we get into 2016 how many wells do you think you could drill at the one-rig program? You wanted to know what the TD on the last well that we drilled is that right? The drilling time? The drilling time.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah the drilling times.
Okay I am sorry.
I misheard your question.
We've been seeing – right now we are pretty efficient.
We are seeing the spud to spud in 33 days 34 days.
Meaning spud one well drill it to the 7 500 foot or so lateral TD rig down – set casing rig down move to the next location and about 34 days is the interval.
So we've pretty much got it down at this point.
And the second part of your question was what? Inc.</span></strong> Just how many wells do you think you could drill in 2016 with the one-rig program? About 10 wells.
One rig could drill 10 wells to 11 wells.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And I guess when your rig comes off the contract I guess how much do you expect to save on your well cost and is that already factored in I guess at this point on the $9.5 million is that what will get you there? No.
Actually that isn't factored in in the $9.5 million.
What we're looking at there is some savings on type and a little bit more savings on the frac side of the cost equation.
The rig rolls off contract in mid November and the savings on subsequent wells based on current rig rates is around $250 000 to $300 000 a well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And I guess are you trying any other differences in the completion of the design out in the Haynesville are you trying to increase the amount of proppants or anything like that? Well the first five wells that we've completed we've stayed with the program because we wanted to really measure the impact of our design we didn't want to deviate too much from it.
Now we're considering – right now it's 3 000 pounds proppant per foot of lateral length which is pretty high but we have talked about increasing the proppant loading just a little bit to see if there's an impact there.
We've talked about a possibility of drilling a 10 000 foot lateral in certain cases.
That's probably a next year project when we dive into that.
We like the fluid system that we're pumping.
We like the overall completion strategy of about 250 feet per stage with the five clusters you heard all this before.
We think we're getting the right kind of proppant loading and the right kind of stimulation on the reservoir along that 7 500 foot lateral length.
So we don't want to deviate too much.
It's the old saw if it's not broke don't try to fix it.
We're doing real well with the program we've got now but that does not mean we won't make some changes as we get a little more information coming at us.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Yeah the well results had been good so far.
Yeah sure.
Inc.</span></strong> If I could just add one more in here? The transportation expense out in the Haynesville I guess what's the cost on the incremental volumes at this point and I guess what's good to use on a go forward basis? Thanks.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah.
We are in the process of finalizing some new – and actually maybe terminating early some transportation arrangements but they are not 100% final yet.
But we are hoping to have a lot of that in place by the fourth quarter.
But generally we are targeting transportation costs in the neighborhood of $0.15 to $0.20 versus our historical $0.35 that we have incurred.
One thing we've always had enough volume so we haven't had to pay for unused transportation because of the way we structured our deals.
But as they expire the market is really low now it's really a buyer's market for gathering and transportation services in the Haynesville so we're able to take advantage of that to lower our cost structure.
So think about that given if we're successful in getting some of those in place earlier we can kind of see those rates maybe show up in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from Kim Pacanovsky from Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi again.
Just wondering if you have any information on Chesapeake's 10 000 foot lateral well.
I wasn't on the call this morning so I was just wondering if you have any update on that.
And also if you could tell us where that location is? Kim I don't have any information about it and the specific location of the 10 000 foot lateral is to our east but I can't tell you specifically how far to the east.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the G&amp;A.
What are some of the reasons for the large improvement in the G&amp;A expense? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Kim this is Roland here.
I think it's mostly lower personnel cost.
I mean we're continuing to trim staffing and have pretty much – obviously have a hiring freeze and...
Yeah.
What's the year-over-year employee count Roland? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> I think overall we're down I think in total in the neighborhood of eight to nine people.
Okay.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> And we'll continue to evaluate our staffing.
I think as we go forward with the smaller CapEx program we might see additional reductions there.
Definitely as we have retirements and other attrition we're not replacing that.
So I think depending on the environment and what type of program we run but we're targeting to continue to see G&amp;A be reduced.
We had 130 employees 135 employees at the beginning.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Right.
And we probably have 120-plus employees.
We're probably down...
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah we're down about 10 people.
Yeah.
That's about right which...
Okay.
...if you think as a percentage wise it's a lot and we're continuing to look at that.
Okay great.
That's all I have.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gregg Brody from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just a couple of follow-ups if you don't mind.
Just on sort of the side fracking that's taking place what are you looking for to understand how that may impact the well over time and are there any analogies that you can think of that you can explain to us that will help us understand what to expect in terms of their sort of risk to the well performing differently than you would think? Well I can tell you what we've seen.
What we've seen is that every well that we've jut in prior to the frac that we pumped on the new Haynesville extra long lateral well with that exception every well offset to that new well has benefited from the frac depending on the distance away from the new well.
And you have to keep in mind that every well that we're talking about has a horizontal lateral and so the lateral length of the offset well is shorter than the lateral length of the new well.
So there's overlap meaning only part of the old offset well lateral is covered within the frac envelope of the extra long lateral length.
Does that make any sense? Yes.
Okay.
So when we frac the new well only part of the old well is subject to the impact of the new frac and again depending on distance.
So we've been able to pretty accurately predict now after the fifth well – we've been pretty accurate in being able to predict which wells are going to be impacted the most and we've developed ranges internal to Comstock – ranges of expectation on the boosted production per offset well.
And so far as I mentioned earlier in my presentation the offset wells are producing above their original declines at higher rates and higher pressures.
So we continue to monitor the overall performance profile of those offset wells to determine just how they're going to extrapolate out over time.
But right now it's a very very low risk opportunity to get additional production from the offset wells.
Now the further away the offset well is from the new frac the less the impact obviously it make sense.
And what we think is happening is we're re-pressurizing the reservoir with the new frac.
We're also reconnecting the old fracture system in the offset wells and that's what simply put is giving the old well the opportunity to benefit.
And then when you mentioned the returns that you were talking about you said $10 million per well.
Was that were you effectively saying drilling on extended lateral I've added this range of side frack production on and that's the return you're coming up with or is it (43:07) Well what the assumption was that we're getting 15 million a day of preproduction basically without cost.
So if you add that back into the five wells you get the additional benefit.
The other way that we look at it we haven't added that in a specific way.
We've kept that on the side because we want to evaluate totally evaluate the – or better evaluate the boosted production before we make an assignment an allocated assignment of the offset well production to the new well EURs.
But obviously we're getting additional production it's been over 100 days on some of the offset wells.
The performance appears to be holding steady.
So obviously we're getting that economic benefit but until we get a little more production data we don't want to assign the economic benefit over to the new wells.
Not to add anyone.
All right.
And your – the cost guidance that you have in your presentation for the year I think it's $145 million for lifting cost.
Does that assume the benefits of these sidetracks or is there a potential upside to lowering that number as a result of that? There's potential to lower the number that's for sure.
It just depends on the level of the impact.
Got it.
And is any of that reflected in this number today or is it versus not? I don't believe so.
All right.
Thank you very much for the explanation.
It's good to hear your voice back.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
We appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Stevens from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for letting me follow-up here.
Obviously the opportunity in the Haynesville the resource is very large out there I was hoping maybe you could just quantify a little bit the opportunity in the Cotton Valley out there on that acreage and I know is that something you could monetize while keeping the Haynesville rates? Well we like the Cotton Valley a lot.
Obviously a number of wells were drilled through the Cotton Valley completed in the Cotton Valley and held at production.
They gave us the Haynesville – held the leases pardon me that gave us the opportunity to access the Haynesville.
But in terms of drilling horizontal wells that's an in-house assessment that's ongoing right now.
Given the current market environment and are trying to be very careful with our liquidity and we haven't posited a Cotton Valley opportunity.
We feel like the bigger returns is on the Haynesville extra long lateral wells that we're drilling.
So but to try to answer your question we believe there's significant Cotton Valley opportunity within our Haynesville area holdings that we can access later.
As far as divesting them that's always a continuing evaluation depending on a lot of different factors.
But certainly one of the just as an operator I don't particularly like the idea of having someone on top of me while I am out trying to drive wells through the Haynesville of 7 500 foot 10 000 foot lateral lengths.
We like the Cotton Valley where it's held by production so to sell that while we are taking advantage of Haynesville is down on my list but I've learned never to say never.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I think the answer is we do have 20 plus million a day of Cotton Valley gas.
We have Hosston and Travis Peak in Cotton Valley we think it's very valuable.
It's very marketable.
We have request all the time companies wanting...
That's right.
...to buy it and we've perpetually said no.
And we do have about 20 million a day of gas in South Texas which is very valuable also and we've got the TMS as upside and then of course we've got a very good inventory slate in our South Texas Eagle Ford.
And as you know we drilled those wells on 80s and South Texas Eagle Ford a lot of the operators were drilling those wells on 40s we haven't done that either.
So there is a lot of upside plus you can add the 1200 locations in Haynesville/Bossier.
So even though the world of energy is pretty terrible particularly if you are a microcap small cap E&amp;P company we're riding the wave as strong as we can.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And I guess just thinking about your borrowing base as you go and you're developing this economic resource in the Haynesville how do we think about the growth and what your borrowing base could be through next year? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Well Chris we don't have a borrowing base at all so I mean we don't have that type of facility in place.
But I think over time we can put one of those in place.
So I think as you grow the reserves into next years' environment and that may be something we'd look to do to do some refinancings of our other debt.
But again we always said if you remember in 2012 we had about 500 Bcf of Haynesville reserves that were on the books that there were future reserves that we were drilled based upon the drilling program.
When natural gas hit $1.90 in May of 2012 of course at the end of 2012 we took them off.
We didn't lose any of the acreage.
So as Mack is de-risking the extended lateral Haynesville today and then just a normal lateral well than Haynesville and then maybe a Bossier well I do think we have some pretty meaningful reserves and we can add back on the books at a materially different economic cost.
So those are all good things.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
I appreciate the time guys.
Yes sir thank you.
Thank you.
Showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Allison for closing remarks.
Thank you Saeed.
And again there is a lot of competitive companies today that you get to listen to.
So all the listeners there I thank you for listening and to be supportive of Comstock and asking really good questions.
Again I think the extended lateral Haynesville results have exceeded our type curve we're pleased to report that.
Our Haynesville refracs are really working.
The balance sheet is as strong as it's been all year long.
We do have excellent natural gas inventory in the Haynesville with 1 200 locations in Haynesville/Bossier.
And as someone had asked we also have Cotton Valley assets.
We have deep gas in South Texas.
And in the future when oil prices comes up we've got a very good inventory of oil projects and our South Texas Eagle Ford.
And then no one mentioned it but in the future we do have the TMS that we've held we've got 81 000 or 82 000 acres there.
So with that I thank you for your time and again we'll give you our best day's work every day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Comstock Resources Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be follow at that time.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jay Allison Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Sir you may begin.
Shannon thank you.
Welcome to the Comstock Resources third quarter 2015 financial and operating results conference call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and downloading the quarterly results presentations.
There you will find a presentation titled third quarter 2015 results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock and with me is Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer and Mack Good our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2015 third quarter operating and financial results and our plan for the rest of this year.
As all of you know this continues to be a very difficult environment with the continued weak oil and natural gas prices.
However we continue to put up excellent results in our Haynesville shale program as Mack will go over later in this presentation.
Our Haynesville results are proving to be both repeatable and predictable which is a mandate in this market.
In fact the Haynesville program is exceeding our expectations which is shown on slide 18 where at a $9 million drill and complete type-curve well for Haynesville well at $2.50 gas yields a 33% rate of return and at a $3 gas yields a (1:48) 55% rate of return which Mack will go over in his presentation.
Please refer to slide two in our presentation; note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectation will prove to be correct.
Now our 2015 third quarter highlights.
This slide which is slide three provides an overview for our third quarter where low oil and gas prices continued to negatively impact our financial results.
Our realized oil price fell by 54% and our average realized natural gas price declined by 34% in the third quarter.
The 40% increase we had in our gas production was not enough to overcome these low prices as our oil and gas sales fell by 54% (sic) [57%] to $62 million.
EBITDAX came in at $36 million and cash flow from operations at $5 million or $0.10 per share.
The positive news out of the quarter is the very strong results we're achieving in our Haynesville program.
Our first eight extended lateral wells in the Haynesville were excellent with an average IP rate of 24 million per day per well.
The first eight wells are all producing above our 15.6 Bcf type curve.
Restarting our development of the Haynesville has allowed us to increase our Haynesville gas production by 119% from our first quarter rate.
We have taken several steps to improve our liquidity in this poor environment.
In March of this year we completed a $700 million bond offering which paid off our bank credit facility and added liquidity to our balance sheet.
In July we sold our Burleson County properties for $115 million.
This allowed us to repurchase $101 million of our bonds for $38 million with no debt maturities until 2019 and have total liquidity currently of $214 million after repurchasing the bonds.
We have no drilling obligations for 2016 so next year's drilling program will be based on what makes sense given current oil and natural gas prices.
Roland will now go over the financial results.
Roland? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</strong> Thanks Jay.
On slide four we recap our oil production.
Our oil production averaged 6 900 barrels per day in the third quarter a 44% decrease from the third quarter of last year.
The lower production level reflects the sale of our Burleson properties in July and shutting down our oil drilling program at the end of last year.
With little drilling activity this year we expect our oil production to decline further.
In the last quarter this year taking into account the sale of the East Texas Eagle Ford properties we expect oil production to average between 5 200 barrels per day to 5 800 barrels per day.
Slide five shows our natural gas production.
With our new Haynesville wells starting to come online our gas production grew 40% to 146 million cubic feet per day as compared to the third quarter of last year.
Gas production was up 60% from the first quarter rate of 91 million cubic feet per day.
We expect our Haynesville production to continue growing our total gas production numbers.
In the last quarter this year we estimate our gas production will average between 150 million cubic feet per day to 170 million cubic feet per day.
Slide six shows our hedge position.
We have 10 million per day hedged at $3.20 per Mcf.
We hope to increase this position next year if we see a rally in gas prices.
Slide seven shows our improving gas price realizations that we're getting from our Haynesville operations.
Last year our all-in differential from Henry Hub was around $1 including wellhead gathering and treating cost of $0.45 which is usually reflected as part of our operating cost and then regional transportation cost and basis differential from Henry Hub of about $0.55 which included firm transportation costs that were not being fully utilized.
This year with the growth that we've had in volumes we've eliminated any unused firm transportation costs and we're now averaging about $0.52.
And recently we have renegotiated certain field-gathering contracts and will see our differential improve to $0.42 for next year.
On slide eight we summarize our third quarter financial results.
We had a 40% increase in gas production offset by a 44% decrease in oil production in the quarter.
Production overall was up 5%.
This combined with 54% lower oil prices and 34% lower gas prices caused our revenues cash flow and EBITDAX to decline.
Revenues this quarter were down 58% to $61 million EBITDAX was down to $36 million and cash flow declined to $5 million or $0.10 per share.
On the cost side in the quarter our lifting costs were down 11% this quarter with lower production taxes and lower gathering cost.
Our DD&amp;A or depreciation depletion and amortization was down 21% due to an improvement in our DD&amp;A rate.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the quarter was $4.60 per Mcfe which improved 25% from the first quarter rate of $6.10 per Mcfe.
After the large impairment charge that we took this quarter we expect the DD&amp;A rate to improve further to just under $3 per Mcfe.
Our G&amp;A costs were down this quarter by 29% to $5.7 million.
And during this quarter we took a large impairment on our producing properties in our unevaluated acreage totaling $550 million.
We also had unrealized hedging gains of $400 000 and a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $51.1 million.
So if you include all these unusual items we had a $545 million loss or $11.81 per share this quarter.
If you exclude those items we had a net loss of $49 million or $1.06 per share.
Slide nine summarizes the financial results for the first nine months of this year where we saw our oil production decrease by 18% and then gas production increase by 7% from 2004's levels.
This combined with the 50% lower oil prices and 43% lower gas prices resulted in lower revenues cash flow and EBITDAX.
Revenues for the first nine months were down 54% to $205 million EBITDAX was down to $124 million and cash flow declined to $40 million or $0.86 per share.
On the cost side our lifting costs so far in 2015 are down 7% with the lower sales numbers and our DD&amp;A in total was down about 8%.
We saw G&amp;A costs are down 20% to a total of $20.8 million.
And again we'll see improvements in all these cost numbers further into the fourth quarter and into 2016.
For the first nine months of 2015 our total impairments for producing properties and unevaluated acreage totaled $617 million and then we also had the loss of the sale of the Burleson properties that we recorded in the second quarter of $112 million.
Other unusual items in the first nine months this year include unrealized hedging gains of $1.3 million and then a net gain on the extinguishment of debt of $55.6 million.
With all these items our total net loss for the first nine months of the year was $759 million or $16.45 per share.
If you exclude the unusual items our net loss would have been $146 million or $3.16 per share.
On slide 10 we've updated our capital expenditure budget for this year.
And with some changes in the amount of refracs we're doing and then also adding the additional Haynesville well plus cost savings that Mack will go over in a minute in our drilling program we've reduced our budget to about $236 million this year down from the $248 million that we had in place last quarter.
On slide 11 we recap our balance sheet at the end of the third quarter.
We have $164 million of cash on hand and about $1.3 billion of total debt outstanding.
Including the undrawn credit facility our total liquidity is at $214 million at the end of the third quarter.
As Jay mentioned we retired $101 million in face amount of our bonds so far this year for total cash payments of $38 million recognizing a gain of $63 million on these repurchases.
We may continue to repurchase some of our debt this year at these attractive prices but we'll balance that opportunity with maintaining adequate liquidity to get through this down cycle.
Our first debt maturities do not come due until 2019 so we have a long runway to survive this cycle.
I'll now hand it over to Mack for an update on our Haynesville drilling program.
Thanks Roland and good morning everyone.
As Jay and Roland have told you during the third quarter we continued to focus on our high EUR and deliverability at Haynesville gas projects within our 68 000 net acreage position shown on slide 12.
The projects results speak for themselves.
All eight of our Haynesville wells have IPed about 20 million a day and are performing above our type curve expectation.
So we've not only continued to put 20 million a day IP rate wells into the pipeline with high EURs but we also lowered what it cost to do it.
I'll talk a little bit more about these lowered costs in a minute.
Moving on to slide 13 you'll see the eight Haynesville wells that we've drilled and completed so far this year.
The average completed lateral length of these eight wells is 7 280 feet and the average IP rate is about 24 million a day.
Since our second quarter report we drilled and completed three wells of 7 200 foot average completed lateral length on a 25 million a day average IP rate.
Let me give you the specifics on these wells as quickly as I can.
We drilled the Ramsey 7-18 #1 to an 11 127-foot total vertical depth and completed a 7 124-foot lateral that IPed at 23 million a day.
After that we drilled the Holmes 29-32 #1 to an 11 371-foot total vertical depth and completed a 7 101-foot lateral that IPed at 28 million a day.
And finally we drilled and completed the Gamble 4-33 #1 to an 11 520-foot total vertical depth and completed a 7 547-foot lateral that IPed at 24 million a day.
The performance of all of these wells against our type curve is shown in the next slide.
Slide 14 shows that all our new Haynesville wells are producing above the type curve.
We showed this comparison in our second quarter report and the trend continues.
So just to state the obvious the wells are better than expected.
And then in addition to these better than type curve results from our new wells we've also seen production and flowing pressure gains from the older offset wells.
This benefit is shown in the next slide that plots the cumulative production gain from our offset wells.
Slide 15 shows that we've gained over 9 million a day in production from our 15 offset wells that were shut in for the fracs of our new wells.
And as you might expect we've also seen a significant improvement in the wells' flowing pressure.
We believe this is a direct result of the new well frac system re-pressurizing and reconnecting the old frac system network.
Our refrac works from the wellbore out into the reservoir obviously but this is the exact opposite phase where the most distant parts of the offset wells fracture system is influenced by the fluid/proppant wave from the new well frac.
We'll continue to monitor the offset well results in order to define the total incremental EUR benefit but the daily production gain is a definite plus for our overall Haynesville project economics.
As we mentioned in our second quarter report as a result of this offset well performance benefit we postponed our Haynesville refrac projects.
Having said that we continue to believe that both our Haynesville and our Eagle Ford wells would benefit from re-stimulation.
But we'll wait for a better commodity price environment to pursue these projects.
Moving on to slide 16 I want to talk a little bit about our lowered Haynesville drilling completion cost that I referred to earlier.
And as you can see on the slide it shows a steady decrease in our cost to drill and complete our 7 500-foot lateral horizontal Haynesville wells.
We've gone from an $11.3 million drill and complete cost for our first well to a $9.6 million cost for our seventh well.
We've done this by changing how we drill and steer our wells' lateral lengths through the targeted Haynesville section.
This has allowed us to reduce our drilling time from about 30 days or so at the start of the year to about 23 days now.
We've also negotiated with our service and material providers to gain additional cost savings.
And as we roll off our rig contract in mid-November any wells we drill going forward will obviously be at a much lower rig rate and our goal is to achieve a $9 million D&amp;C level for our subsequent 7 500-foot lateral length Haynesville wells.
Slide 17 supports being able to reach this $9 million drill and complete cost goal since it shows just how much we have improved our drilling time curve.
I talked about this earlier but this graph really is a picture that is better than words.
If you stare at the graph a little bit you'll see that our first two 7 500-foot lateral wells took an average of about 33 days to drill.
And if you jump to the seventh and eighth data points on this plot you'll see that we took an average of 23 days to drill our last two 7 500-foot Haynesville wells.
Not to confuse everybody but the very last point on the graph is our ninth well which is a 6 400-foot lateral well.
So I've excluded it from our 7 500-foot lateral well drill time average.
But there's no doubt that we've drilled this ninth well below the longer lateral 23-day average and we know that it would have been another confirming data point if we had drilled a longer wellbore in this case.
But the bottom line here from looking at all these drill time numbers is that we've obviously shaved at least 10 days off our drill times from the start of this year and this obviously means big cost savings.
So we're confident we can reach the $9 million D&amp;C goal given the 7 500-foot lateral length and our current completion design.
Slide 18 is a graph that shows the rate of return economics for type curve Haynesville well at different gas prices on a flat gas assumption.
A $9 million D&amp;C type curve well at $2.50 per Mcf would yield around a 33% rate of return.
Let's say the gas price went to $3 then that same well would yield an estimated 55% rate of return on the type curve.
Obviously these economics ignore the fact that all of our wells are at or above the type curve and the economics also ignore the benefit of the offset well production improvement that I talked about earlier.
We'll continue to look at ways to even further improve these economic metrics.
Those opportunities for improvement exist in the economies of scale that come with increasing our fracture treatment sizes as well as drilling longer laterals than 7 500 feet.
Well I guess that sums it up.
So I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Mack well done.
Roland thank you.
Let me refer everyone to slide 19 where I will summarize our plan for the rest of this year.
We're still on the same path that we presented in our last conference call.
As our Haynesville program as you can see is exceeding our expectations our achieved results are demonstrating that our improved completion design has substantially improved the economics of the play.
And we have a vast resource with over 6 Tcf of reserve potential and over 1 200 mapped drilling locations in the Haynesville.
And as Roland showed earlier our net realizations in the Haynesville have improved substantially from last year and will even be lower next year.
We have a nice inventory of oil projects to pursue once oil prices improve and stabilize including 105 future operated Eagle Ford shale locations and roughly 327 future operated Tuscaloosa Marine shale locations.
We'll continue to maintain a low-cost structure as we have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry and are working to lower our drilling and overheard cost wherever we can.
We'll continue to safeguard our balance sheet and with the recently closed sale of our East Texas Eagle Ford properties we were able to retire over $100 million of debt and still have $214 million of liquidity.
For the rest of the call we'll take questions only from the research analysts who follow the company.
Shannon turn it back over to you.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Kim Pacanovsky with Imperial Capital.
You may begin.
Yeah.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Kim.
So you have eight wells now under your belt and I guess the results have been I'd say amazingly consistent.
So just looking at the entirety of your acreage in the 91 locations that you have identified that are capable of supporting an extended reach lateral what's your expectation for that repeatability over the breadth of your acreage? I'd say all of them.
All of our extended laterals lend themselves to high EUR and deliverability numbers.
Kim we've got about 45 to 50 in the Logansport proper.
We've got the same number just to the east where the Haynesville is thicker slightly lower porosity.
So the avenue to follow here is looking at a slightly larger frac in those areas where the porosity might be a little less than in the Logansport region.
But we're still looking at anywhere from 14 Bcf to 16 Bcf.
And like I mentioned in my presentation we're also looking at 10 000-foot laterals extended laterals larger fracs to help us with the higher EURs.
But we've got a significant inventory of high-deliverability EUR projects.
That's the bottom line.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> And Kim this is Roland.
I would add we are also working on several acreage exchanges with other operators.
And so we expect to continue to increase that inventory where we can drill longer lateral wells.
Okay.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> So there's a lot in process.
So I think all the operators in the Haynesville like the longer lateral opportunity so there's a lot of dialog of us kind of swapping acreage to give us all larger units.
Okay great.
Can you give us any idea of how many locations you are working on adding I guess in the nearer term? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Well we'll report that after we get some of them closed.
Yeah.
Okay.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> But it'll be substantial.
Yeah.
We do have a number but we shouldn't give it out yet.
Okay.
And how are you incorporating offset uplifts in your IRRs? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> We're not.
So that's total 100% upside on top of the IRRs you're showing? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yes ma'am.
Okay.
And then just quick one other thing I don't know if I missed it did you give an update on the short lateral well? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Well we're flowing it back and testing it right now.
Okay.
Any comments on how it's looking? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> It's looking okay.
Okay great.
I'll pass the torch.
Thank you.
Kim one other thing.
We've just talked about the Haynesville but we still have all of the upside in the Bossier which our tenth well is an extended lateral Bossier well.
So that again it's a whole different chapter.
But I think it's as valuable as the Haynesville chapter.
And I don't know if I'm – I guess I'm stalling the line here.
When would we expect results from the 10 000-foot Bossier well? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> With the yearend results.
Yearend.
Okay.
Super.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
You may begin.
Hey guys.
Another question on the offsetting well improvement are those direct offsets or are these – I guess how far of a improvement are you all seeing when new wells are drilled? It's a combination Brian of the direct offsets plus one offset past that.
So that the impact diminishes the further away obviously the further away you get from the new well fracked.
But most of the wells are direct offsets.
We've seen some slight influence on what we call indirect offsets which is two spacings out.
And I'm assuming in slide 15 that's just showing one of the wells' improvement is that pretty standard from what you've seen thus far? Well that's a cumulative plot showing the $9 million a day improvement over the – for all of the offset wells mentioned in the pile.
So it's not just one well.
It's all of them.
So $9 million a day total.
Okay.
And so we can assume I guess the new wells you're going to put them on pad or on sections with existing wellbores? Some will be and some won't be.
It's a combination.
The first several wells obviously that we drilled it did include direct offsets because we were drilling in established units.
But we have some other areas where we don't have those offsets but it's clearly (25:46) about 60% – 70%/30% 70% with offsets 30% without.
Okay.
Yeah.
And Brian remember we have about 186 or so Haynesville wells.
So a lot of these wells will be drilled near existing wells.
Okay.
And one more I mean as you look out to next year I know you're probably still going through budgeting.
What are your general thoughts I guess from where we sit today with the current commodity outlook? Can you just talk generally about direction for next year? Well I think as Kim Pacanovsky had asked we're completing the short lateral which is our ninth well.
The tenth well is the extra long lateral in the Bossier.
Our rig kind of goes away.
Our rig our existing rig goes away at the middle of this month middle of November.
So right now we'll mow that rig over which is a HP rig we'll move it over to a location and we will not start drilling again until late January – mid-January.
So what we're going to do we're going to see what our liquidity looks like.
We're going to see what the oil prices look like gas prices look like see what our cost structure looks like and then as we said earlier Brian we don't have any drilling obligations in 2016.
So we'll decide kind of in January what we need to do as far as our program to grow gas and keep our liquidity.
So I think all E&amp;P companies are in the box it's a pretty good box to be in though when you don't have any drilling obligations and your cost to drill these kinds of wells will come down materially – well with the new rig contract.
So we can have a rig busy.
We can have no rigs.
We can drill 3 wells 10 wells.
We'll decide that sometime in January.
Jay that's very helpful.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Don Crist with Johnson Rice.
You may begin.
Good morning guys.
Jay just to drill down on what you said on your last conference call about your partner in the Eagle Ford might be willing to gain some assets either in the Haynesville or another basin.
What does that market look like right now and is their appetite just as strong as it was back then to add some acreage or maybe farm into yours? I would say yes.
In fact we've met with several different potential partners including KKR and that's our go-to partner.
And just because commodity prices come down doesn't mean that the appetite is not there.
In fact there may be even greater appetite.
I think the question we have to decide Don is what is best for Comstock and the shareholders the bondholders.
We've had some invitations to have other parties participate in the Haynesville drilling program.
We don't know that that's in the best interests of the Comstock bondholder or stockholder.
So all those things are choices I think that we have that we can make.
But the good box that we're in again is we do have liquidity $214 million.
We don't have any borrowing base issues.
We don't have real borrowing base.
We've had exemplary results with Mack and the operations group and the costs have come down.
And even at a $2.50 gas price I think the strip is $2.50 today you could get a 33% rate of return.
And that's before our cost come down some more with the new rig rate we'll have.
So you've known us forever and ever and ever.
I mean Roland is working hard taking calls.
I'm working hard.
We're seeing what we need to do in 2016 not just survive but to grow.
And we've done that all year long.
And I think we've made some pretty good moves.
And the key to Comstock is does the Haynesville work? And the answer is it does.
And do we think the Bossier will work? And we think it will.
And are we trading some more acreage to increase our footprint in the Haynesville? Yes we're trying to do that too.
So those are all good things.
We've got great flexibility.
And unlike the last down-cycle we didn't have any built-in partners but we do this time.
So we'll see what we need to be doing to create some wealth for the shareholder.
Hopefully that includes you Don.
Thank you Jay.
All my other questions have been answered.
So I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gregg Brody with Bank of America.
You may begin.
Good morning guys.
Hi Gregg.
You mentioned that you were able to renegotiate some of your gas contracts in the Haynesville.
What is the – in terms of the negotiation is it your market or are you in a better position or is there some swapping you're doing in terms of volumes for lower rate that's allowing you to get lower rates? These are kind of field transportation contracts gathering contracts that were put in place back when the Haynesville started up.
And we had legacy contracts that are still in place now that are attractively priced so we don't have an interest in renegotiating those.
But we have one that was kind of higher than those.
And a lot of our Haynesville production has dual connections and so I think that what we really have is some ability to have some competition.
And that one particular contract that we showed in our chart is improving the numbers next year was expiring next year and we asked them to look at renegotiating that early and they were gracious enough to do that and basically saying we have other ways to go with it next year.
So I think they want to keep the volumes plus given our new drilling I think that's attractive to them too seeing volume growth.
I think the combination of being an active operator with new volumes and having competition is what allowed us to kind of renegotiate some of those gathering contracts.
So I think there are some other contracts that run out and that's kind of what the chart shows some other firm transportation contracts that we could renew cheap.
But generally we're pretty much close to pretty market rate for what the market will bear for moving our Haynesville gas so in a good position.
Did you have to commit to additional volumes or extend the term of the contract for a longer period of time or is it...? Yes we definitely extended the term from what would have expired early next year for this particular – this is only part of our Haynesville.
Part of it goes to other companies as far as gathering.
So this part we elected to extend that at a market rate that we like but we didn't obligate ourselves to any firm volumes.
So this will just be a acreage dedication.
Got it.
And then you mentioned you were looking at swapping some acreage positions.
Is there an opportunity to add acreage on your own in any of the areas that you have existing assets? Yes.
We think the area that we've been working hard is obviously the Haynesville especially around our acreage footprint where we're drilling these wells.
So yes we think there are some opportunities to add some acreage and there are definitely opportunities to trade acreage with other operators.
And so I think we'll get some of those done in hopefully the fourth quarter which would just add to our inventory of extended lateral opportunities and makes everybody's acreage more valuable when they have it more blocked up.
And then switching to the refrac program I think you said that's on hold for the rest of the year and indefinitely.
Previously there were some issues with getting some of your other owners to commit to refrac wells.
Did you see any progress on that front? I mean where it could actually move forward if prices did improve? Well we haven't (35:01) pursued it aggressively on the refrac side just simply because we were basically getting the re-performance (35:13) from the offset wells to our new Haynesville fracs.
But I anticipate there would be a lot of difficulty gaining partner approval on refracs on a standalone basis going forward in this market.
But we didn't pursue it aggressively just simply because we were getting the great results on the offset performance boost.
Got it.
And the last question for you.
You mentioned you could still reduce debt.
I believe you still have another $12 million of RP capacity from the banks.
But then you also mentioned you're going to manage liquidity prudently.
How do you think about balancing those two things buying back debt and prudently managing liquidity? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Well I think yes there's great opportunities to retire the debt at discounts which reduces interest carry.
So I think that they're kind of intertwined those two goals.
And so we had a pretty active open-market repurchase program kind of through the end of the quarter which we typically once we get to the end of the quarter we kind of black out purchases just because of the waiting for results to be reported.
So we'll evaluate when we want to come back into that market and then also evaluate other ways to maybe do something much larger to retire some of that debt as other companies are doing with other transactions.
So we're kind of evaluating what's the best answer but that opportunity – while our prices are low to significantly reduce the total debt and the total interest burden of the company it obviously is out there and we hope to be able to take advantage of that to improve our liquidity overall.
We have a lot of tools to work with.
So we'll just decide how we want to approach that including the open-market plan which we could resume at any time.
Yes.
And the $38 million we spent got rid of $101 million of bonds we had and saved $10 million a year in interest expense.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yes.
We retired one-seventh of all our unsecured notes with that program.
No I would agree.
I think that's good use of cash.
I guess you kind of hinted at potential exchanges.
Is there any sort of exchange that would potentially include equity as sort of a convert structure or something like that or are you still thinking on issuing any equity in any form? CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> I don't think we take anything off the table at all.
But we have no particular transaction in mind.
I think that's something we'll just continue to look at what's going on in the market and look at potential opportunities and talk to our partners our big partners and see if we see something that we think helps all our stakeholders.
We want to improve the value of the stockholders and the bondholders and that will be our approach.
And our approach isn't to be coercive to any of those groups.
And that's why we like the open-market approach.
And so again we'll continue to evaluate those opportunities and kind of compare those to what the Haynesville offers in drilling and then kind of the key is what type of commodity prices do we have next year and how defensive will we be with our spending.
That's very helpful.
I appreciate the time guys.
Thank you.
CFO Secretary Director &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kim Pacanovsky with Imperial Capital.
You may begin.
Yes.
Hey guys just a couple of quick follow-ups.
First what is the rig rate for the rig you have right now versus what you might expect to get it at at current market or to renew at at current market? Well rigs that were put under contract two years ago were for a Flex3 rig we were going anywhere from $25 000 to $30 000 day rate.
Ours is about $27 500 kind of in the middle.
Okay.
And the new rig rates again range depending on what kind of rig what kind of crew what kind of operator et cetera anywhere from $15 000 to $19 500.
And we're still negotiating that.
So I don't want to give numbers out on that but...
Sure okay.
That's kind of the range.
Okay great.
And then if I look at your slide 17 when you went through your improvements in drilling days going from like 35 days and 31 days for the first two wells then to 22 days.
I'm just very curious what did you do so right on the third well that you drilled it in 24 days? Well a lot of people have asked that question.
And the short answer is sometimes everything just goes perfectly.
That was an anomalous – obviously from the first few wells that one stands out.
So I mean the question is legitimate what did we do.
We didn't do anything different.
Okay.
We just got a really great result and I don't think we could do that again if we went back – very often if we went back to what we were doing when we drilled that well.
Going forward we improve our chances tremendously by making the changes that I mentioned: where we land our lateral how much of a tolerance window we get to navigate the trajectory of the lateral that kind of stuff.
We went to a bigger pump and bigger mud motor gave us higher velocity cleaning rates on the drilling side.
So the bottom line Kim is we feel like we found a better mousetrap to give us more consistent drilling results and faster drill times.
And Kim what Mack is telling me the drilling engineers they've given a little more room in where the lateral is because we've got 100 feet to 150 feet of thickness there's a little more wiggle room.
So you're not likely to make a mistake if you get a little more wiggle room.
And I think Mack started doing that the last four five wells.
And that has helped our drilling time materially.
That...
That's right.
Basically we've become more tolerant on the navigational side with no issues – obvious to everyone there's been no issues on the performance side.
So it's a real cost saver that's for sure.
Is it safe to assume that when you venture into the regions where the Haynesville is thicker you could potentially remove additional drilling days just because you can widen that window even more? Well we're starting to squeeze the margins on the savings.
Okay.
We don't want to widen the window to the point where we have what's called porpoising lateral.
Right.
right.
So basically a rollercoaster ride when you try to land your casing your production casing.
So we want to stay reasonable with that tolerance window Kim.
Okay great.
We do think that with the thick of the pay (43:08) the more locations we're going to have which is a whole new thought and we'll report on that maybe in the fourth quarter.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Allison for closing remarks.
Sure.
Again so there were a lot of companies reporting today.
If you stayed with us for the 43 minutes we're very thankful.
And as Roland has said as Mack has said we're trying to asses everything in an ugly commodity market in order to continue really to create well for the bondholder the equity owner everybody.
And we're making those decisions daily.
We do have really good liquidity.
We've had exemplary results in the Haynesville.
Hopefully we can show those same results in the Bossier.
And we don't have any drilling requirements in 2016.
So we'll finish wells 9 and 10 we'll report on those see if we can get our costs down a little more and then give you what our program will look like some time at January of 2016.
Thank you for your time.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Comstock Resources Fourth Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jay Allison CEO.
Please begin.
Again thank you Latoya.
And I know it's a busy day for all those that are participating in the conference call.
I want to thank you for choosing this conference call.
Welcome to Comstock Resources fourth quarter 2015 financial and operating results conference call.
You can view a slide presentation during or after this call by going to our website at www.comstockresources.com and downloading the quarterly results presentation.
There you will find a presentation titled fourth quarter 2015 results.
I am Jay Allison Chief Executive Officer of Comstock and with me to my right is Roland Burns our President and Chief Financial Officer; to my left is Mack Good our Chief Operating Officer.
During this call we will discuss our 2015 operating and financial results and our plan for 2016.
As everyone on this call knows this continues to be a very difficult environment with the continued weak oil and natural gas prices.
But the good news is and most of you know this we continue to put up excellent results in our Haynesville shale program as Mack will go over later in his presentation.
If you go to slide two in the presentation and note that our discussions today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities laws.
While we believe the expectations in such statements to be reasonable there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
2015 summary.
A summary of 2015 is outlined on slide three.
Our realized oil price fell about 50% and our average realized natural gas price declined about 44% in 2015.
The 20% increase we had in our gas production was not enough to overcome those low prices over oil and gas sales as they fell by 55% to $254 million.
EBITDAX came in at a $150 million and cash flow from operations at $36 million.
The positive results in 2015 continue to be the strong results we're achieving in our Haynesville program.
Our 10 extended lateral wells in the Haynesville and Bossier shale that we drilled in 2015 were excellent with an average IP rate of 24 million per day per well.
All wells are producing above our 14 Bcf to 16 Bcf type curve.
Restarting our development program with the Haynesville has allowed us to increase our Haynesville gas production by 161% from our 2015 first quarter rate.
We took several major steps in 2015 to improve our liquidity in this poor environment and we know we need to take more steps in 2016.
In March we completed a $700 million bond offering which paid off our bank credit facility and added unquestionable liquidity to our balance sheet.
It also removed covenant issues required by most not all banks.
They are difficult to comply with in the low commodity price environment they were in i.e.
leverage ratios covenants et cetera.
In July when oil prices rebounded somewhat we sold our Burleson County oil properties for $115 million.
This then allowed us to repurchase $130 million of our bonds for $43 million.
We also retired another $40 million of our bonds in February.
We have no debt maturities in 2019 and have total liquidity of $184 million.
We have minimal obligations in 2016.
It can adjust our drilling activities as needed this year based on what makes sense given current oil and natural gas prices.
The actions taken within the last 12 months were all needed.
Our focus in 2016 is continued to: one be frugal in our spending; two protect our balance sheet; three keep a flexible budget our Helmerich &amp; Payne rig is contracted to drill three rigs at a $10 000 day rate lower than it was last year; four to continue to reduce debt levels as we did the last nine months.
We recognized as management a company as a board that our debt level is too high for our current cash flow levels at current commodity prices; and five finally maybe the most important point other than our leverage continue to show stellar operational performance in the Haynesville and Bossier play.
Mack Good and his team had drilled and completed probably the best 10 wells in a row in our corporate history in the Haynesville/Bossier.
They've reduced costs.
They've proven that the play is repeatable and predictable.
We've added valuable drilling locations this year at no costs and can deliver rate of return at 30% at $2.50 gas and 200% rate of return at $2 gas.
And our last well drilled in 2015 it was completed in 2016 the Jordan No.
1 well maybe the single best Bossier well ever drilled in the region.
Mack has a comment on that later.
We had 350 Haynesville locations from 4 500-foot to 10 000-foot laterals.
We had 286 Bossier locations from 4 500 foot to 10 000 foot laterals.
That is quite an inventory starting from where we were this exact day last year would know that is no extended lateral Haynesville or Bossier wells completed.
Plus you'll see on slide 20 of our Haynesville staggered lateral well potential is viable which we think it is we could potentially add another 83 extended Haynesville lateral locations.
Make note that about it we're a natural gas company focused on natural gas with a stellar oil position in the South Texas Eagle Ford that is HBP but not really drillable in the oil market that we all live in versus our Haynesville/Bossier play we have optionality that is very unusual in this current distressed E&amp;P market.
With that Roland I will go over to you for financial results.
Thanks Jay.
On slide four we show our increasing natural gas production.
Our Haynesville shale drilling program is driving the growth we've had in natural gas this year.
Our gas production increased 65% in the fourth quarter to 162 million cubic feet per day as compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
Gas production was also up 78% from our first quarter rate of 91 million per day.
We expect our natural gas production in 2016 will average between 135 million cubic feet a day to 160 million cubic feet a day depending on the number of wells that we end up drilling in 2016.
On slide five we summarize our oil production.
Our oil production averaged 5 400 barrels per day in the fourth quarter which was a 57% decrease from the fourth quarter of last year.
The lower production level reflects the sale of the Burleson properties back in July 2015 and shutting down our oil drilling program in late December of 2014.
With little drilling activity planned for this year we do expect our oil production to decline further.
We expect oil production in 2016 will approximate between 4 200 barrels per day and 4 500 barrels per day.
Slide six shows our hedge position.
We still have only 10 million Mbtu per day (08:03) of our natural gas production hedged this year at $3.20 per Mcf.
And to the extent that there are better prices available later this year we'd like to put in more hedges.
Slide seven shows our Haynesville shale basis differential going into 2016 our all-in differential from the Henry Hub price is about $0.42 which includes $0.26 in transportation costs that are reflected in our lease operating expenses in our income statement.
Most of the other large Haynesville operators have substantial firm transportation obligations some of which they don't have enough production to meet.
Most of their overall differentials are well over a $1 per Mcf.
On slide eight we summarize our fourth quarter financial results.
We had a 65% increase in gas production which was offset by a 57% decrease in oil production in the quarter.
This combined with the 57% lower oil prices and 43% lower gas prices caused our revenues cash flow and EBITDA to decline.
Revenues this quarter were down 62% to $48 million and EBITDAX was down to $27 million.
Lifting costs in the quarter were down 13% mainly due to lower production taxes and lower gathering costs.
Our DD&amp;A or depreciation depletion and amortization was also down 37% that was due to an improvement in our DD&amp;A rate.
Our DD&amp;A rate in the quarter was $3.32 per Mcfe which improved 44% from the fourth quarter 2014 rate of $5.97 per Mcfe.
In the quarter our G&amp;A costs were down 58% to just under $3 million.
But also during the fourth quarter we had a large impairment on our producing properties and our unevaluated acreage of $255 million.
We also had a gain on the extinguishment of debt of $23 million.
Including these items we had a $289 million loss or $6.25 per share in the fourth quarter.
If we exclude these items we had a net loss of $42 million or $0.91 per share.
On slide nine we summarize our annual 2015 financial results.
For the year our oil production decreased by 28% and our gas production grew by 20% as compared to 2014 but this combined with 50% lower oil prices and 44% lower gas prices again caused our revenues cash flow and EBITDAX to be lower in 2015 than 2014.
Revenues in 2015 were down 55% to $254 million EBITDAX was down to $150 million and cash flow declined to $36 million.
Lifting costs in 2015 were down 8% with the lower sales level.
And our DD&amp;A was down 15% and our G&amp;A cost decreased 27% to $24 million for the full year.
For the year we had large impairments on our producing properties and unevaluated acreage caused by the decline in oil and gas prices.
They totaled $872 million.
And we also had a loss on the sale of properties of $112 million.
We had an unrealized hedging gain of $1.4 million in the year.
And we also had a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $79 million.
So including all these items we had a $1 billion loss or $22.71 per share.
But excluding these items we had a net loss of $189 million or $4.10 per share.
On slide 10 we cover the capital spending that we had for 2015.
For the year we spent $241.4 million on our 2015 drilling programs.
$105.3 million was spent in the East Texas North Louisiana region to drill nine Haynesville wells and one Bossier shale well.
We also re-fracked two Haynesville wells.
We spent $119.6 million for our South Texas region; $77 million of this was spent on the properties that we sold in July and the remaining $42.6 million was spent on our Eagleville properties where we completed four wells that were drilled back in 2014 and we installed artificial lift on many of the wells in that field.
As shown on slide 11 we outline our proved reserve estimates at the end of 2015.
We grew our proved reserves slightly from 620 Bcfe to 625 Bcfe but the reserve growth this year which mainly came from the Haynesville shale drilling program was offset by price related downward revisions of 107 Bcfe.
The SEC prices that we used in the reserve report fell to $46.88 per barrel compared to $92.55 per barrel in 2014 for oil and $2.34 per Mcf compared to $3.96 per Mcf in 2014 for natural gas.
In the year we also divested of 27 Bcfe which represents a sale of our East Texas Eagle Ford properties.
The reserve additions in 2015 came almost exclusively from our Haynesville program and they totaled 170 Bcfe.
We also had upward revisions of 38 Bcfe again coming from the strong well performance in the Haynesville.
The level of proved undeveloped reserves at December 31 2015 that we could book was limited by our available capital to develop these reserves in the future.
So for that reason we included only 35 Haynesville and Bossier shale proved undeveloped locations.
We have a total of 636 operated locations including 286 extended lateral locations; many of these would otherwise qualify as proved undeveloped locations in the reserve report.
If you exclude the price related revisions we had this year our Haynesville and Bossier shale drilling program achieved an all-in finding cost of $0.66 per Mcf.
You could obtain that by dividing the 161 Bcfe that was added by that program compared to the total cost incurred of $110.7 million.
Slide 12 shows our capital expenditure budget for 2016.
Our drilling activity will again be focused on our Haynesville shale properties in Louisiana where the extended lateral wells have economic returns even in this low natural gas price environment.
We plan to commence drilling sometime in March utilizing the one drilling rig that we have under contract.
This one rig can drill about nine extended lateral wells for all of 2016.
So our total capital expenditures in 2016 would be approximately $98 million if we continue to drill throughout all of 2016.
However after drilling three wells we may discontinue our drilling program depending on the current industry conditions.
So our capital could be as low as $46 million for just drilling the three wells plus other maintenance capital that we have for the year.
We're currently working on a drilling joint venture in the Haynesville that could fund much of this capital budget this year.
We also may divest of some non-core natural gas properties and then use the proceeds to fund this drilling program.
Slide 13 shows our balance sheet at the end of 2015.
We had $134 million of cash on hand and $1.270 billion of total debt outstanding.
Including our undrawn credit facility our total liquidity is $184 million.
We retired $130 million in face amount of our bonds in 2015 for cash payments of $43 million and recognized gains of $83 million on these repurchases.
In February of this year we retired an additional $40 million of face amount of bonds by exchanging common stock for the bonds.
So pro forma for this debt for equity exchange our total debt is $1.230 billion.
We plan to continue to pursue strategies for retiring more of these bonds in 2016.
The first maturities we have are not until 2019 so we still believe we have a long runway to survive the cycle.
I'll now hand it over to Mack for an update on the Haynesville drilling program.
Thanks Roland and good morning to everybody.
I won't spend a lot of time talking about slide 14 that shows our acreage positions in the Haynesville and the Bossier other than to say that during 2015 we drilled 10 horizontal wells last year in this area.
Each of those wells are currently projected to recover over 15 Bcf and the average IP rate of those wells is around 24 million cubic feet per day.
Not too bad.
And during 2016 we have up to nine wells teed up to drill and complete as conditions warrant to do the exact same thing.
As you can see in the next slide slide 15 we believe that the results for 2015 drilling program confirmed that a Comstock Haynesville well completion targeting a horizontal length between 7 500 feet and 10 000 feet can deliver a rate of return between 30% to 51% at a gas price between $2.50 to $3.
It is a real plus that we have a sizable inventory of these extended 7 500 foot to 10 000 foot lateral horizontal wells for future development.
And our review of the way our acreage is laid out shows that we have at least 125 operated extended lateral Haynesville locations and 161 extended lateral Bossier locations with horizontal lateral lengths between 7 500 feet and 10 000 feet.
And we believe that our new Jordan wells current performance indicates that the Bossier potential could rival the economics we project for our extended lateral Haynesville wells but we definitely want to get some more production history (19:46) to confirm that.
Last but not least all of this production potential is supported by a simple fact.
That fact is that our acreage is close to the Henry Hub which obviously means we don't have to suffer the long-haul transportation cost that others who are less well located might have to suffer.
Moving onto slide 16 we'll breakout some of the Haynesville metrics for you for our extended lateral wells and I won't go over every number in the slide but I'd like to highlight a few points.
First we believe that our D&amp;C costs for those wells will be between $9.5 million for a 7 500 foot lateral and about $11.5 million for a 10 000 foot lateral.
We're confident that our IP rates for those wells will be over 20 million a day for the 7 500 footer and over 30 million a day for the 10 000 foot horizontal completion and the EURs would vary between 15 Bcf to 20 Bcf respectively 15 Bcf for the 7 500 footer 20 Bcf plus for the 10 000 footer.
We're looking for ways to improve these results and several ideas are under consideration.
But that discussion is for another day.
Next on slide 17 you'll see a map showing the approximate locations and IP rates for our two re-frac wells along with the 10 wells we've been talking about that we drilled and completed in 2015.
Just to summarize things a little the first nine wells we drilled were Haynesville wells while the last well was a Bossier test.
The first eight of our Haynesville wells were drilled in the first three quarters of the year.
They had an average lateral length of 7 290 feet and an average IP of about 24 million a day.
And all of these wells are at or above our type curve as Roland and Jay have both indicated and so I think you could say that they are doing better than we expected and we expect a lot.
During the fourth quarter we drilled two more wells one was our ninth and final Haynesville well of the year and the 10th well was our Bossier test.
Our ninth well the Caraway 20-29 targeted a shorter 5 950 foot lateral length completion but it IP'ed extremely well at 24 million a day.
This well just like the others is producing above the type curve.
And our 10th and final well the Jordan was our only Bossier test of the year as we have indicated.
Its completion targeted a 7 430 foot lateral length and it IP'ed at 22 million a day.
I'll talk a little more about that Jordan Bossier well in just a minute.
Anyway after drilling the Jordan we laid down our rig during late November of 2015 to finish the year's drilling program.
And just to mention this we also highlight on the map that we have 3 637 net acres that we acquired earlier in the year in exchange for about 2 550 or so net acres in Atascosa County that increased our Haynesville and Bossier drilling inventory and it's in a great location.
Slide 18 is one most of you have seen before if not all of you have seen before.
It just shows the production information of our new wells plotted against our Haynesville type curve.
The graph includes all nine of our 2015 Haynesville wells along with our one Bossier well.
You can see that all nine of our Haynesville wells are producing above the type curve rates.
So what about the Jordan Bossier well? I know the graph is a little busy at the beginning of it at the early production time so it's difficult to isolate out the Jordan well production data.
But I can tell you this we believe that based on its current performance that if it is not the best Bossier well in the play it's definitely in the top three.
The well has been producing for about 50 days and it is following a different production profile than our Haynesville wells follow and keep in mind that I've said different not worse.
It is currently producing flat at 14 million a day with very little pressure decline after 50 days of flowing to sales and even though the well is slightly below the Haynesville type curve at this point it is producing on a flat line very little decline.
And we expect it to cross the Haynesville type curve in about two weeks to three weeks and produce above the Haynesville type curve at that point.
After we get additional information on the well production history et cetera we'll build the Bossier type curve that will be supported by well performance and evaluate the well's EUR.
I'd just say we like what we see so far and we like it a lot.
Additional benefit that our new Haynesville completions are providing is shown in the next slide on slide 19.
We estimate that our new 2015 Haynesville wells improved the offset well production performance by a total of 10 million a day.
And as we've said before we think this kind of impact is due to the new well fracture treatment reopening and re-pressurizing an older offset well fracture network.
We've been monitoring this impact since the beginning of our program and it's obviously an additional benefit to our overall Haynesville economics.
One easy way to look at this is that since the average benefit 10 million a day divided by 10 wells gives 1 million a day for our Y15 (25:34) wells you could simply add this 1 million a day to each well's production plot against the Haynesville type curve and get a visual estimate of the offset well impact.
Slide 20 is our attempt to show you some of the additional potential that we believe exists across our position in the Haynesville using the staggered lateral concepts and I know most of you again if not all of you are probably familiar with it.
Basically this is a concept that's been successfully applied by some operators of the Eagle Ford and it is one that we believe applies to our future Haynesville development.
Since the Haynesville is about a 150 feet to 200 feet thick mostly 200 feet thick across our acreage position we do not believe that this entire section is treated by an Upper Haynesville horizontal completion.
So by targeting the Lower Haynesville as a separate horizontal well target we believe that we can capture additional reserves similar if not equivalent to those we are currently capturing with our Upper Haynesville horizontal completions.
This approach has a potential to give us an additional 83 horizontal Haynesville locations with lateral lengths between 7 500 feet and 10 000 feet.
So it would increase our extended Haynesville drilling inventory by about 40% or so.
So obviously we are planning to drill a staggered lateral well to prove this idea once market conditions improve.
So after covering all of that I guess I should send it back to Jay to sum up everything for you.
That's the slide 20 that I mentioned earlier.
Before I have some closing comments it's always nice again if you are so fortunate as to be the CEO to have great people that kind of do their job.
I mean Mack is a proven executive he is COO.
I mean he's been here forever and ever and ever.
He was here when the first Haynesville well was ever drilled.
Roland you don't need to talk about Roland.
He has been here 26 years and all the financial levers we have Roland controls them.
I mean you don't get a better proven executive than Roland so.
And the results I mean when you are in an environment like we're in today you expect the Rolands and the Macks of the world to give you the best results possible whatever that might be.
And I think that that's what we have given you.
We will go to slide 21 where I'll summarize our plans for the year.
The strong results from our proved Haynesville and Bossier shale wells provide us with growth opportunities in the current low natural gas price environment.
Our achieved results are demonstrating that our improved completion design has substantially improved the economic supply and we – I emphasize we as a company we have a vast resource with over 6 Tcf of reserve potential.
We have mapped 286 operated extended lateral locations on our acreage.
We will continue to maintain a low cost structure as we have one of the lowest overall cost structures in the industry and are working to lower our drilling and overhead cost wherever we can.
We substantially reduced our overhead in 2015.
And we elected to forgo bonuses that were earned in our incentive plan we did that.
We will work on 2016 to improve our balance sheet the bondholders and the equity owners because we own both.
We will limit drilling activities as needed to conserve liquidity.
We expect that the proceeds from the sale of certain of our non-core gas properties which Roland mentioned will help fund the drilling program this year.
And we also are working with several investors in the drilling venture as Roland mentioned that could fund drilling activity in 2016.
We will continue to work hard to reduce our long-term debt with more repurchases and exchanges as we have done in the last three quarters.
For the rest of the call we'll take questions from only the research analysts who follow the company.
Latoya back to you.
Thank you.
And the first question comes from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
A quick question for Mack.
If you look at the Bossier versus the Haynesville I know it's 50 days into that well.
But what were your expectations on the Bossier versus the Haynesville? Were you expecting similar results? Were you expecting EURs or IP rates to be 80% to 90% of Haynesville? Just trying to get a sense on that color and then as we get more data see how this well's performing versus what you may have thought? Ron we anticipated that the Bossier would give us about 75% of our expectations that we had for the Haynesville.
But the caveat here is that we had prior to the Jordan well not drilled a 7 500 foot Bossier horizontal well nor had we tried to complete it with the new approach that had performed so well for us during 2015.
And as we completed the Jordan we realized that we couldn't follow the same completion design as we had followed for the Haynesville wells and we changed that design appropriately about two-thirds or so from the end of the completion.
About one-third of the way into the completion we realized we had too high treating pressures.
We weren't hitting the completion efficiencies that we desired.
So the bottom line is where I'm headed with this is is that the initial performance that we've had the first 50 days down the Jordan exceeded our expectations considerably.
The fact that it's producing with very little pressure draw down and very little decline was unexpected.
So I think it argues in favor of the fact that we got a tremendous completion on the well and we've got a very good Bossier test to evaluate going forward.
I'm very hesitant to give out an EUR number for obvious reasons.
It's a 50-day production interval that we're looking at.
So if I were to just extrapolate that flat line it would obviously get an unreasonable result for an EUR.
So we're going to give it two or three more months here before we generate an EUR Ron.
Okay.
Ron I did tell Mack that he disappointed me a little bit because this is a Jordan #1 I named it the Michael Jordan #1.
I thought it'd be 23 MMcf a day well and it is only like 22 MMcf a day and change.
So Mack fell a little short Ron I want you to know that.
I'm sure Mack appreciates that.
And then Mack from a Bossier versus Haynesville obviously you drilled the Bossier down by the Parish line.
That's where you had some of your better Bossier wells back when you were drilling in the play.
If you look at the distribution of the Bossier versus the Haynesville do you think prospectivity up further north in DeSoto County or do you think each of the zones will be more localized in your two bigger acreage positions? Well let me say all the data that we have Ron indicates that the quality of the Bossier across our acreage position is very similar.
There is no reason to believe at this point that we'd have a deterioration in quality as you move north.
Now obviously both with respect to the Haynesville and the Bossier you can move too far north with respect to the Bossier and you can move too far south on the Haynesville as you well know but right now all the mapping all the data the geological information we have Ron suggests that the key is the appropriate completion of an extra-long lateral in the Bossier.
It's not a deterioration of the Bossier quality that would cause (34:06) more the completion efficiency in a Bossier.
So a knock on wood we got a great start on that.
And Mack I think we've been involved in about 200 wells since 2008 is that right? Yes but the vast majority were Haynesville.
Right.
So our restored confidence in the Bossier is really underpinned by the Jordan performance and the new completion and drilling frankly has a big big contribution to this.
It's a matter of getting a quality wellbore placed in the right spot and then completing that quality wellbore in the right away.
So...
Yes the beauty of the Bossier as you know you drill through Bossier when you drill to the Haynesville.
So every Haynesville well we drill we drill through the Bossier.
So we've looked at this a little bit.
Anyway Ron hope that answers your question? No for sure.
And then Roland just can you expand a little bit on the comments from the last slide in terms of talk about potential asset sales what are some of the likely candidates maybe it's the conventional South Texas stuff or maybe you still have scattered acreage or additional debt-for-equity swaps and then you also talked about the potential venture.
Is that with industry partners? Is this with financial partners? And is anyone preferred or kind of any combination of all three? Are you agnostic between those? That's a lot of questions in one question.
Ron that's a good question too.
Could you repeat it? Nope.
So basically let's talk about the potential asset sales.
We've identified certain properties that are non-core to the company.
And I think what's core to the company is obviously the Haynesville and Bossier acreage.
We think the Cotton Valley acreage is core also even though we're not developing it right now.
And then our Eagle Ford and TMS acreage for future development.
That's our core properties.
So we have scattered properties that we don't see future development competing with our unconventional inventory.
And the most valuable of those properties is going to be the South Texas gas properties very conventional deep gas and Wilcox and other plays down there.
So that's definitely a property at fairly low decline long property.
So it's a kind of property that is easier to sell in this environment.
So for those properties we're going to actively market and then potentially we have other scattered properties that also could be potential.
But nothing that we consider core at all would we consider selling in this environment.
And then looking at the potential drilling joint venture we're really talking with financial partners or financial investors more than industry partners as far as participating with us in a limited amount of our Haynesville program just for the couple – a year or so while prices are low and capital scarce because the returns are there to support it.
So of course gas prices if they get weaker and weaker that's maybe harder to do.
But given current kind of outlook for prices there is interest there there is return there and that's something we're considering that would be helpful to this year's program to kind of conserve and that could allow us to drill more wells versus the more minimum budget and help us conserve more cash.
Great.
All right thank you so much.
Thank you Ron.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kim Pacanovsky of Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Kim.
Hi.
I have a question about hedging and I know and I've asked this in different ways before and I know you guys through your history and I've covered you for a long time have been reticent to hedge.
And you're now getting returns of about you said 20% at $2 in the Haynesville and there have been multiple opportunities I'd say over the last six months so layer in more hedges.
And the best outcome you could have is that gas moves up $0.50 or so over the next year and you capture that gain on your unhedged gas.
So I guess my question is how are you guys looking at the markets right now? When will you step in and put more hedges in and you give the equity investors some comfort on the returns? Well Kim we started putting in some hedges.
I mean the hedging this year – last year and this year has been like trying to catch a falling knife and so it's been difficult for any of our targets to be met other than just some modest ones early on.
So to the extent that there is more stability and I think heading at the current prices don't help the company a lot in the overall picture but to the extent that they get a little higher and that's why it was the goal of ours to try to hedge the gas for this year but not at the current price levels.
One thing we have done Kim if you look six months ago or so it probably takes and I have to go back and look at the numbers but $3 gas will give you a 22% or 23% rate of return now $2 gas we think can give you a 20% rate of return $2.50 gas gives you a 30% rate of return.
So even though we hadn't (40:20) hedged we've done something probably in the long-term more important and that is we've proven that the Haynesville and I think Bossier does work.
We've proven that it's repeatable and like I said with Mack and the group we've reduced those costs so that even at a $2.00 $2.50 now it's more likely that we could hedge.
And I think another part of that question is you have to look at our total debt it's about $1.1 billion net.
So Kim (40:50) we've reduced that debt so that even if we do hedge it can support the entire company.
That's how we looked at it because we have to say well will we drill three wells or nine wells will we bring in a partner will we have some asset sales but we don't really know those things.
But we did start hedging a little last year and we didn't think the market would fall off that quick and it did.
But I want you to know we will hedge when we think that it's beneficial for the company because as you know I mean even in this room you've got 3 million shares of stockholders.
So we care about where the equity is.
Okay.
And then looking at your two scenarios I guess what was it the three wells versus the nine wells.
What's your price point or your strip point where you kind of turn it off and say okay we're just going to lay the rig down and sit tight for a while? I think it's not a specific price.
It's going to be a factor of all the – the situation of where the company sits in a couple of months.
That's the way we've set it out.
There is no long-term commitment.
And so if we've entered into drilling joint venture that could be a different answer.
So yes there is not a specific price we can give you on top of that.
Okay yes.
Fair enough.
But obviously if gas is below $1 we probably aren't going to be drilling anything.
We'll probably shut it down that facility (42:21).
I hope not.
And then...
But we did want to have the locations built.
As you know it takes a long time to get the permits in some locations and so that's why we say it's nine wells.
I mean we drilled nine wells plus kind of a bonus well last year which is the Bossier so...
We're not drilling in the month – in January and February so this won't start until...
Yes.
So it's a shorter period there.
This will start in March.
Okay.
And then just one question on the operational side.
How is the offset boost in production you've had when you frac your new long lateral wells how is that holding up with the offset wells the older wells? Extremely well.
As we continue to add offsets through the ninth well the tenth well the Bossier is solo it doesn't have any offsets.
But we've seen the same kind of profile over the last three quarters.
So no surprises there whatsoever.
Okay great.
Thanks.
We present that on a slide there.
You can see that and that's an up-to-date performance of the offset wells.
Okay.
Yeah.
Slide 19 Kim.
Yes thanks.
Actually for some reason I couldn't download the slides.
But I'll try again.
Thanks a lot guys.
Sure.
Thank you Kim.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Corales of Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
And maybe more for Roland.
I mean how does buying back your debt are you all still able to do that one? And then I guess any kind of asset sales or kind of drilling carry could your CapEx budget be redirected to buying debt? Well I think that yes we still can buy it and still that's part of our strategy is maybe to use a variety of resources we have at hand like we saw with the stock for debt exchange that we did.
So yes that's going to be a big strategy.
As far as the CapEx again I think that's why we have such a wide range on the CapEx.
It's very flexible.
None of it is we're obligated to do.
We could even not drill the three wells and pay a small fee on to release the rig.
So lots of flexibility there.
And then we recognize that the return in buying the bonds back is by far the highest return available in the company.
So it's just a way of using whatever resources we have to accomplish that and that is our major goal I think in this market.
We've proven up.
Last year our major goal was to prove up what we thought the Haynesville could be and I think we've done that and then we've done it in spades.
And that's provided opportunities for – without that there wouldn't be investors that would want to participate in that because of the performance we put on the board.
But now the performance demonstrated it's really do the economics justify drilling the well do we want some level of production and then we kind of hold off.
So there are lots of options we have to try to get through in what looks like it's setting up to be a very very difficult turbulent year for the sector.
And on those kind of drilling partnerships is that something just to get through 2016 or is this going to be something on a bigger scale that could be you have a partner now longer-term what's your thought? Our thought in approaching that has been that we wanted it fairly limited because we – and I think that's the real goal.
It's limited to a small part of our inventory.
Ron I think the answer to that though is that what we're seeing from a potential JV partner is that they like the quality of our assets.
So if you wanted to be much bigger you could but again you've got go (46:46) company right now and that's our building inventory that's proven and predictable.
So I think that's an option we will have.
But it's also to the extent that we can get that in place and that relationship in place it will be a great vehicle if we have other opportunities like the exchange we did any kind of other acreage opportunities and what we think is areas that will deliver similar results.
I mean we'll have a vehicle to be able to capitalize on those opportunities.
That's been stuff that we've been working on also for the last eight months is getting partners in to help us take advantage of any acquisition opportunities in the plays where we're good operationally.
Thank you.
Thank you Brian.
Thank you.
The next question is from the Phillips Johnston of Capital One.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks.
Congrats on the Haynesville results.
My question is on your reserve adds in the play.
What was the average EUR booking per well for the long laterals for both your PDP locations as well as the 35 PUD locations that you guys added? For our proved reserve bookings I think we're probably averaging around especially for the undrilled wells around 12 Bcf and then we have an additional probable reserves that takes us up to our full type curve.
So we're getting pretty comfortable to where we think a lot of that probable part of the type curve is going to move into proved and hopefully as these wells get to be a year old and more that we'll see that the 2016 end of the year is more at our full type curve or even better (48:44).
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then how about the 10 PDP wells that you booked or eight or nine or 10 whatever it was was that closer to 15 MMcf (48:52)? No.
I think it's similar.
They're going to be all different based on their exact performance.
But I would say if you were to average them out it would be something similar maybe slightly higher than the PUDs...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
...just because they're drilled.
But yes and I think we have – just like they were much more conservatively booked the year before so we had a pretty large upward revision.
So we would hope to be able to have a similar type of upward revision and feel like the wells today are on that track with where they are producing above our total type curve.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Makes sense.
And then just to follow up on Ron and Brian's questions about the potential JV.
Can you talk about what the preferred structure is that you guys might pursue? I mean would it be more of a traditional upfront cash plus a drilling carrier or do you think it would look something more like what your existing joint venture with KKR is in the Eagle Ford? I think there are some options to structure it different ways and if you kind of change one aspect of it it changes another one.
And I think that's really for us to – I know we're just in the process of working through all that to figure out what we think is the best structure which could include cash up front which obviously very helpful in this environment or wanting to have a bigger interest in the well later.
So all that's really to be determined and so we're a little early on the process but maybe by the next reporting day we can have something really firmed up.
Yeah and Phillip I can tell you that who we're dealing with I mean they're very quality long-term players that you'd be pleased if we would do business with.
I think that's a key too.
Inc.</span></strong> Sounds good guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Chris Stevens of KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey morning guys.
Just looking at the presentation looks like most of your wells are outperforming the type curve at this point.
Any color you can provide on what your type curve assumes for first-year production? And then what these wells are actually tracking at this point over the first year? Well each well like Roland said earlier is a little different although they are all the above the type curve.
Our type curve starts off at about 22 million a day or so with a hyperbolic decline.
As you can see first year's production I mean we're reaching 2 Bcf in the first year across the board on average but that's an average.
So to get more specific information about that we'd have to dive into the details obviously but that's kind of an average well (52:06).
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And any idea on the incremental reserves you're adding at this point for some of the offset well impact of refrac? The short answer is no just because we've chosen to be real conservative just like Roland mentioned earlier about how we booked our reserves on our new wells.
We wanted to firm up those EUR projections so we could add reserves later rather than have a downward correction.
So we've chosen not to assign an incremental benefit at this point just because the time that we think we need to look at this on a well-by-well basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just lastly how much production is associated with some of the other non-core asset sales that you were discussing earlier in the conventional gas assets? Well there's multiple answers to that depending on what area you're talking about – anywhere from one package might have 5 million a day or 3 million a day on a smaller level up to say 10 million a day to 13 million a day depending on the – the way the property package is built and those are net numbers so it varies.
Inc.</span></strong> So I guess in aggregate roughly 10 million to 15 million a day of production? Yeah.
Something like that.
And then – the overall metrics of each area changes as you know – LOE and the operational complexity et cetera so.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dan Guffey of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
You mentioned completion differences Bossier versus Haynesville.
Wondering if you can talk about the differences and then if you saw any cost differences in the overall well.
Yeah.
I had talked a little bit about it.
The key to completing both the Haynesville and the Bossier is to get enough rates and profit placed per cluster.
And the Haynesville is all slickwater on the fracs the Bossier is not just because it's a different type of formation.
So you have to gel up just a little bit on real light gel loading so that's what we are saying say 15 pound per gallon gel loading something like that.
The stages are smaller in the Bossier than in the Haynesville.
The Haynesville is more brittle it fractures much more easily.
So in order to get the same rate per cluster in a proper place in the Bossier the stages that you're treating have to get smaller.
So that means more stages more stages means more costs.
And this was our first well so a number of those things had to be learned as we went.
As I mentioned earlier in my presentation that we – when we first started the completion of the Jordan well for example we realized very quickly we were not going to be able to pump the fracture treatment with slickwater we had to go to a gel system.
We also realized very quickly we had to target smaller intervals in order to get the kind of rate and profit placement we wanted and that was going to cause us to increase the number of stages by – from 30 to say 38 or so.
So plus we had some mechanical issues in the completion process.
We had to change out a frac vendor.
That was an issue that cost us a little more money.
So we think we can get the Bossier completed for about $10 million or so after we solve these other issues that we ran into.
Obviously we learned a lot on the Jordan drilling and completion.
So the shorter answer is yeah there are some differences for sure.
And we think we've learned what those differences are.
And we can improve on it from there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
I guess on a third of that having kind of the inefficient frac is kind of how you're looking at it.
Do you think you could have higher productivity should – if the entire well would have been completed as the last two-thirds were and how much rate or performance do you think the well suffered because of the first third that was completed with the slickwater? Well I can't answer how much better it would have been if we hadn't run into these issues and et cetera I know it would be better.
The magnitude of the problem that was caused by the first several stages and its impact on overall well performance I couldn't quantify that for you.
But in general yeah I think everybody on the team certainly believes that once – if we have fracked every stage as we fracked the last 25 stages or 30 stages in the well we would have a better performing well there's no question about that.
Now the well right now is performing awfully well it's a (57:46) performer for us so we're really interested to continue to monitor the performance pressure drawdown in the – the right amount of well over time.
Because right now I'm not kidding you the things are flat and we've seen very little drawdown on pressure and that is highly unusual for Bossier well matter of fact I haven't seen it period.
So...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
So far so good.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> On that drawdown and based on the pressure data when do you guys expect the well to go into decline? We can't answer that.
We've got a lot of analytical work that's being done looking – calculating viable pressure drawdown versus surface pressure drawdown versus rate rate transient analysis et cetera.
We have not reached an outer boundary on the reservoir in 50 days didn't expect to.
So until we get to some sort of boundary condition where the pressure will start to decline we can't answer any questions about when we'll start to see that.
So I guess that really this being the first well the first 7 500 footer the first hi-tech completion design that we put on a Bossier well we have the same questions that you do as far as when the well will start to see a decline but 50 days not seeing much of a decline whatsoever is pretty impressive.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
Switching gears to the Eagle Ford I guess can you guys talk about the depth and quality of any remaining inventory? And then at what price would you guys be inclined to either one add a rig back; or two look at it as a divestiture candidate? I think we had 105 or so locations at the end of last year.
And then we had not infill drilled we drilled on 80s.
We'd never infill drilled a well.
So I think that's still the case.
Mack might want to add on that.
I think it's a little bit less as we sold some acreage (59:45).
But I think we're in the 85 range for locations.
And we're also looking at the staggered lateral concept as I mentioned earlier.
So we have a number of drillable locations in Eagleville on the inventory.
And the quality varies depending upon what area we're talking about – if you're talking about an area to the West of our extreme west of our acreage holdings versus one that's in the core which we consider to be at McMullen County.
So that's kind of a long-winded answer to your question and maybe doesn't give you the kind of information you're looking for because I can't give you numbers on that right now as far as the number of locations we have in each of those different areas.
But we have that in house and waiting on better oil prices obviously.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I guess lastly from me can you guys discuss LOE and G&amp;A trends? Obviously you guys deferred any bonuses this year but can you talk kind of how one on G&amp;A throughout the year what your expectations are for 2016 and then on LOE as you become gassier should we assume the LOE is going to continue to drop? No I think that's – especially on a per-unit basis the – obviously the production taxes and the gathering costs are very much variable costs kind of going along with sales.
The lifting cost number is relatively fixed and more volumes would drive it down to the gas side.
We're not adding a lot of fixed new costs when we put on a new Haynesville well.
So I would say – I would look at it more from that standpoint that a lot of that cost is fixed the lifting cost is relatively fixed number.
And as we increase the volumes you'll see the rates go down other than for the transportation and the production taxes.
G&amp;A I think that I would say that that's going to track more quarterly – quarter would be more like $5 million a quarter in that range for total G&amp;A including – some of that's stock-based G&amp;A more than this – this quarter was lower than a normal quarter because of the election to forgo bonuses.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for all the detail guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Two quick ones.
One you mentioned TMS as one of the areas you wouldn't look to sell.
Can you talk about the acreage position there and in your requirements if any – I know you would – you were talking to landowners about extensions renewals what's an update there? Yeah.
On the TMS acreage we're obviously holding that for long-term oil price recoveries.
And we only have one producing well so there's not a lot of – there's – mostly it's acreage and most of the acreage is term.
Our core acreage which is the – around the original Crosby wells and the wells – the one well we drilled is the part that we consider the most core part.
And we did extend that out where there's no drilling required or any kind of delay rentals required for the next two years.
So we would have to revisit it in really 2018 and decide what we want to do with it then.
Some of the other acreage that makes up our total TMS block there are various leases some of those will expire over the course of several years.
But we would see that that'd be very inexpensive to renew or to re-lease right now there's really not any activity to speak of in the play.
Okay.
And then lastly Mack on the upper versus lower Haynesville you talk about 200 feet of thickness and you don't think you're necessarily draining the full 200 feet.
What are some of the challenges or maybe not in terms of the way you've already laid out wells when you come back and if you drilled a staggered upper or lower Eagle Ford to go with the upper any challenges with pressure depletion et cetera or as your well layout (1:04:38) protect you from some of that? We're fortunate in that our legacy Haynesville wells were landed in the upper part of the Haynesville section.
And so that leaves the lower half to two-thirds of the Haynesville section open for the staggered lateral drilling opportunities.
And the depletion is – that's the basically the foundation of the ideas that you have no depletion in the lower from the upper completion because the frac doesn't extend into the lower section.
So you've not captured those reserves.
You're only effectively completing the other fracture network the upper section of the Haynesville.
So that's the basic principle of the staggered lateral concept.
So we feel pretty good about that.
If we drilled a 10 000 foot lateral obviously we need a little more room to move with that upper landing area.
But the same thing applies to the staggered lateral concept we still don't believe that there's significant depletion of the lower section by the upper section being completed.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi Ron do you realized that it was eight years ago that you asked Mack the question on upper and lower except it was upper and lower was – Mack came back and said well upper and lower is the Haynesville and then the Bossier.
I mean it was eight years ago that you asked about that and now we've got an upper and lower Haynesville but then we do have a Bossier.
So that's kind of interesting.
What that means Ron is we're both getting older.
I was going to say I'm not sure what to (1:06:33).
We're both getting older.
(1:06:35) Mack.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
And the last question is from Mike Breard of Hodges Capital.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
On the Bossier well was that completed soon enough to have any impact at all on the year-end reserves? No not really.
I mean there is – it's not a proved developed producing well because it was completed in January.
And so it's not reflected – as part of those wells.
And we really didn't – given our limited runway for adding undeveloped locations we obviously chose to just put them in the more – the Haynesville is much easier.
So it really didn't have any like you said it didn't really have any impact on the reserves because that completed in 2016 and we only had a limited available slots for undeveloped wells under the SEC kind of rules.
But we do think prospectively it did a whole lot to get us excited about the large Toledo Bend North acreage and again we want to monitor its performance but it did a lot here to give us a lot of confidence in the Bossier locations.
Inc.</span></strong> So if you were enter into a joint venture and drill wells would that be primarily Haynesville or could you include some Bossier on that and potentially show a pretty good reserve increase? I think that we would want to – yeah we would definitely – we definitely want to drill some more wells in the Bossier for sure.
And that'd be one advantage of doing a drilling joint venture will give us extra opportunities to test the 10 000 foot laterals to test – do more Bossier and to potentially even test the staggered laterals.
So I mean that's one of the benefits it would give us the capital to move the rest of those (1:08:46) ideas put evidence X results on the table that those are working.
So that's...
Mike that's one reason we upgraded the – Mack did the HP rig to be able to do that to drill the 10 000 foot laterals.
Inc.</span></strong> And then also of course if you tell your vendors are going to drill nine wells instead of three wells they might cut your prices a little more? Yeah.
Certainly get them excited.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And so – yeah.
We will compete and progress that way but again I think we really to look at this year.
it's going to be – it's a challenging year we know that the commodity prices have just been.
We're kind of in the worst case scenario worse than the worst case scenario that anybody had envisioned.
And it's going to be a stormy year but I think we prepared the company as best we could last year for it and we're going to be proactive as we always have been in taking on problems and issues and to get to this year and to be better at the other end of the year just like I think 2015 was a challenging year.
But in all that – all the adversity of what was going on I think we accomplished a lot on the operational side and took our largest asset and showed that it had a lot more value than people thought it had by drilling these new completion style wells in the Haynesville and Bossier.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions in queue at this time.
I'll turn the call back over for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Latoya.
Again make no doubt about it.
We will work hard every day collectively as a company to make the best decisions possible as Ronald said to get all of us through this oil and gas land mine year.
What we do we always give you our best.
We'll always keep our integrity.
We'll always be transparent and always commit to you the stockholder and bondholder to deliver our best with the set of facts and the set of assets that we have which is what you expect us to do.
As a group and me personally it's a privilege to serve you.
So again thank you for your time this morning.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.