Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; and Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Marlina and good morning everyone.
In a moment I'll review our first quarter 2011 financial results as well as provide some guidance for the second quarter.
Following my remarks Jim will offer his comments and field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices cost operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences and results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events to the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available in the company's website at aksteel.com.
Earlier today AK Steel reported net income of $8.7 million or $0.08 per share for the first quarter of 2011.
Our solid first quarter results are better than we had originally forecasted and are $0.09 per share above the first call consensus earnings estimate.
Shipments for the first quarter of 2011 totaled 1 423 100 tons about 5% higher than our prior quarter.
Our average selling price was $1 109 per ton slightly higher than we anticipated and an increase of approximately 9% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenues totaled $1 580 000 000 an increase of about 14% over the prior quarter.
Sales outside the U.S.
were once again an important source of revenue for us totaling approximately $218 million or an increase of 15% over the previous quarter.
As we previously announced our first quarter results includes several one-time items that net to a total charge of $1.5 million.
The one-time items include: first $1.3 million in cost associated with the shutdown of our Ashland Works coke plant; second a non-cash charge of $14.2 million related to the settlement with a group of our Butler Works retirees; and third a non-cash credit of $14 million for the final settlement accounting of the Middletown Works VEBA.
Netting revenues and costs for the first quarter of 2011 we achieved an operating profit of $19.5 million or $14 per ton.
That represents a solid improvement in our operating results of more than $174 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the first quarter we made capital investments totaling $36 million.
As business conditions and shipments improved we had an expected increase in working capital of approximately $133 million.
We will remain focused on managing working capital throughout the year and anticipate it will be roughly flat for full year 2011.
Let me make a few comments related to our pension plan.
During the first quarter we contributed $30 million to our pension fund.
And within the next week we expect to complete our remaining $140 million pension contribution for 2011.
Looking beyond 2011 our independent actuary has recently updated their estimate of our future pension contribution requirements.
As a result we now expect our 2012 contributions will be about $180 million substantially lower than previously estimated.
Turning briefly to the VEBA settlement with the group of our Butler Works retirees as previously announced we will make 3 annual cash payments starting in 2011 which will total $91 million.
The first cash contribution of $32 million will be made in the third quarter of 2011.
The other payments will be approximately $32 million in 2012 and $27 million in 2013.
Now I'd like to provide some guidance for the second quarter of 2011.
Reflecting continued strengthening in most of the markets we serve we expect second quarter shipments of between 1 500 000 and 1 550 000 tons a significant increase over our first quarter 2011 shipments.
In addition we expect our average selling price to increase by approximately 7% quarter-over-quarter primarily due to a higher contract of spot market selling prices.
We expect higher cost for raw materials including scrap iron ore and purchase slabs of approximately $50 per ton compared to the first quarter.
We anticipate our maintenance outage cost to increase by roughly $8 million quarter-over-quarter.
We expect to incur additional one-time cost of approximately $4 million associated with the shutdown of our Ashland Works coke plant in the second quarter of 2011.
Overall we expect to generate an operating profit for the second quarter of approximately $65 per ton which would represent a substantial improvement of more than $50 per ton over the first quarter.
Now for his comments here's Jim.
Thank you very much Al.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
I'm really delighted to report that in the first quarter of 2011 AK Steel returned to profitability on both an operating income and a net income basis.
And while we still have a long way to go to get back to where we want to be it's certainly nice to be back in the black.
And as Al described we see positive momentum ahead.
Suffice it to say that I'm very encouraged about what we see in terms of our second quarter outlook.
But before looking ahead let me take a few moments to comment on a few of the items that contributed to our improved and better-than-expected first quarter results.
Despite somewhat lower shipments than we had expected due I might add entirely to a shortfall on the delivery of purchased slabs we experienced a solid shipment mix better-than-expected average selling prices and above-expectation cost performance.
So let me offer a tip of the hardhat to all of our employees for the excellent job that they did in Q1 on controlling those cost that were within our control.
In particular I was very impressed by our record yield performances and I think that they're sustainable going forward.
Those performances were needed.
Frankly to help offset higher steelmaking input costs for scrap iron ore coal and coke.
For example we consume about 500 000 tons of carbon scrap each quarter and during Q1 of this year we paid about $75 a ton more than we did in the fourth quarter of 2010.
On the iron ore front as was the case in 2010 and as in recent years we paid more for our pellets in the first quarter of 2011.
That said from my perspective the good news is that we made excellent progress in Q1 by reaching agreements with 2 of our 3 iron ore suppliers.
We reached new supply agreements representing nearly 75% of our expected iron ore purchases for this year.
And just last week we reached an agreement in principle for 2011 pricing with our third iron ore supplier for the remaining 25% of our needs.
And we hope to put the finishing touches on that deal in the next couple of weeks.
In each case we've shifted from historical annual benchmark pricing to a quarterly pricing approach.
Given the increasingly volatile pricing of this important steelmaking input we chose to embrace quarterly pricing for iron ore pellets going forward.
Similarly for our contract sales agreements we have completed some and are negotiating other pricing agreements with customers that contain an iron ore variable price adjustor.
Accordingly from a standpoint of matching our revenues and input costs we're in a much better position in 2011 than we were last year.
Many of you will recall that in 2010 the benchmark price for iron ore was not settled until October.
That made it virtually impossible for us to recover last year's increased iron ore cost from our contract customers.
Before leaving the raw materials area let me offer a few brief comments on coal coke and slabs.
While our coal costs are expected to be higher in 2011 than 2010 it's important to note that we signed our coal supply contracts prior to the Australian floods that took place in Q1 of this year.
On the coke front let me comment on both Ashland and SunCoke Middletown.
As we announced in December of 2010 we're in the process of shutting down the Ashland Works coke plant.
We're doing so because of the high cost of continuing to operate and maintain the coke batteries as well as increased environmental challenges.
We expect to close this plant by the end of the second quarter.
To replace the Ashland coke production we've bought coke from several third-party producers on an interim basis as we consider our best long-term approach for coke.
The SunCoke Middletown project is proceeding well with about 3 million of the 3.6 million bricks in place.
The project is on schedule for an anticipating startup in mid-October of this year.
Regarding carbon slabs thanks to the first quarter 2011 startup of our new electric arc furnace what we refer to as #5 EAF at Butler Works we will soon be capable of producing more carbon slabs on our own.
Beyond that the addition of the new EAF and ladle metallurgy furnace or LMF is a big part of the modernization of the company's specialty steel operations in recent years.
The EAF and LMF provide us with much greater flexibility and they allow us to lower production costs increase steelmaking capacity and improve the quality of all of Butler Works' products.
We expect to begin and enjoy the payback on this $160 million investment starting in the second half of 2011.
Vertically integrating remains an important long-term goal for AK Steel and discussions are continuing on this subject with the number of parties around the world.
However we're not in a position at this time to announce a transaction with respect to either iron ore or coal.
Now let me take a few moments to provide you with an update on the markets that we serve.
I'm pleased to report that in general we see a continued slow but steady economic recovery.
That's certainly the case with the automotive market.
But right up front on behalf of all of us at AK Steel let me express our heartfelt concerns for our Japanese friends and customers who have faced more than 50 earthquakes the devastating tsunami and radiation fears from the troubled nuclear plant.
We wish the courageous people of Japan and our Japanese customers the very best as they deal with the aftereffects of this monumental natural disaster.
At AK Steel we stand ready to help.
In the first quarter of 2011 the automotive market which represents about 1/3 of AK Steel's sales showed some signs of recovery.
U.S.
light vehicle sales were at an annual rate of more than 13 million units a sign of continued improvement in this sector and the economy as a whole.
Compared to the 11.7 million annual sales rate for the year ago first quarter it was a double-digit percentage gain for automotive sales.
Of course everyone is concerned about the near-term effects of the devastation in Japan and so are we.
Taking into account recent announcements from our customers regarding possible parts shortages we're continuing to assess our second quarter automotive sales forecast.
To date we're aware of some second quarter reductions to original production plans for automotive customers.
At this point our customers believe the cuts are temporary in nature.
I think we all understand that it's simply too early to tell the full impact that the Japan effect if you will will have on second quarter automotive shipments.
Having said that we do not expect that vehicle demand will be affected.
And if necessary we suspect that the demand will be met through inventory reductions in Q2 and increased production in the second half of 2011.
It's our understanding that the automotive production shortfalls will be made up through increased production schedules in the third and fourth quarters as key component supplies from Japan resume or are replaced with alternate sources.
We'll continue to stay close to our automotive customers and take our lead from them as their build schedules take shape for the second quarter and beyond.
Moving to the construction market.
While construction activity is still lagging general manufacturing activity has been robust.
In the first quarter of 2011 industrial activity appears to have grown by about 9% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
That's really encouraging news especially when one considers that new home construction and non-residential construction have yet to experience any meaningful improvement.
As a result of this increase in general manufacturing I'm pleased to report that we have seen an uptick in our infrastructure and manufacturing market.
Despite the dual shocks of Japan's natural disaster and rising oil prices the U.S.
economy appears to be improving ever so slightly.
For example since November of 2010 the unemployment rate although still way too high has dropped by about a full percentage point and the ISM manufacturing survey is pointing to strong manufacturing growth.
Coincident with improving employment manufacturing metrics consumers are gradually returning to America's retail stores and car lots and that's a good thing for AK Steel since most of the steel we manufacture goes into producing consumer-durable goods.
At our company we also share the summary view of the Fed's Open Market Committee minutes from their March 15 meeting which stated "The economic recovery is on a firmer footing now and overall conditions in the labor market are improving gradually." At our company we've been successful in winning new business in the appliance and HVAC markets and we continue to pursue additional opportunities of those OEMs who desire what we have to offer namely our value-added products and who appreciate the reliability of our equality our delivery and our unsurpassed customer service.
Our largest market continues to be the contributor and converters or the DMC market and throughout the first quarter demand from the DMC market held strong.
Customers in this important market segment provide valuable processing activities and just-in-time deliveries to a variety of other market sectors.
In response to increased demand and higher steelmaking input costs AK Steel has announced a series of price increases for specialty steel products and carbon steel products since the beginning of 2011.
We're realizing the impacts of those price increases in our second quarter results and in our outlook.
And for that matter we expect carbon spot market prices to remain strong in light of very low inventory levels at service centers at around 2 months and continuing high steelmaking input costs.
Now let me turn to the electrical steel market where overall things are also improving.
We've experienced higher demand for our high-end products most notably in Europe and South America.
This increased demand has buoyed spot market pricing for our international electrical steel sales.
Global demand for high efficiency electrical steel products had already begun to improve prior to the Japan crisis.
But since that natural disaster demand has increased for AK Steel's highest quality electrical steel offerings.
In total we look for about a 15% increase in grain-oriented electrical steel shipments for the second quarter for 2011 compared to the just completed first quarter.
Increased order intake rates mean higher operating rates for steelmaking and steel finishing and that translates into more work for our employees.
As a matter of fact we're hiring.
We're looking for 30 people at our Zanesville Works right now.
And as of March 31 each of our roughly 6 500 employees was working hard to satisfy the needs of AK Steel's customers and not a single person in the company not one was on layoff status.
Speaking of our employees with the announced shutdown of the Ashland coke works we continue to try to place as many of the affected coke plant employees as possible.
We now expect opportunities to be available for about 2/3 of the displaced workers from the Ashland Works coke plant at either the Ashland Works main plant or at other AK Steel locations.
In addition we were delighted to announce last week that we had reached an early agreement with the International Association of Machinists who represent our Middletown Works hourly employees on a three-year labor contract extension that expires on September 15 2014.
This agreement replaces the existing contract that was set to expire on September 15 of this year.
I sincerely appreciate the IAM's leadership in negotiating an early agreement that continues to provide us with the kind of operating flexibility we need while offering competitive wages and benefits for the employees of Middletown Works.
At AK Steel each and every quarter we do our best to remain true to our company's core values of safety quality and productivity take care of your people and take care of your customers and the results will follow.
And in recent years this has been AK Steel's mantra for success.
During Q1 we were honored for our safety performances at our Zanesville plant and at AK Tube.
And more recently our Coshocton Works has been honored for its safety performance.
I want to congratulate our employees at each of those locations for making safety their highest priority every day.
In addition the American Coke and Coal Chemicals Institute informed us last month that both of AK Steel's coke plants share the Max Eward Safety Award together with a third recipient for the year 2010 in their safety performances.
This happens to mark the sixth consecutive year that the Ashland coke plant has earned this prestigious award and it's the 13th time in the past 14 years that 1 or more AK Steel coke-making facilities has been so honored.
I congratulate our Middletown and Ashland coke plant employees for working the entire year all of 2010 without a single OSHA recordable injury that's fantastic.
Unfortunately however on March 31 we were reminded why safety is and must always remain our #1 priority.
Tragically an outside contractor suffered a fatal injury at the Ashton Works coke plant while performing routine maintenance work.
In our business we must all be each other's keeper and our thoughts and prayers go to his family friends and his co-workers.
Turning very briefly from safety to quality.
During Q1 of 2011 our internal quality measures were stellar.
For example internal rejections set a new quarterly record and retreated products tied the record that have been set in the fourth quarter of 2010.
And externally we continue to experience a very low rate of customer claims reflective of the high-quality products that leave our plants.
In addition we fared quite well on the Jacobson independent survey of our carbon steel customers AK Steel was ranked #1 in quality customer service and on-time delivery as well as inside sales support in the first quarter.
These performances translated into a #1 overall rating in terms of customer satisfaction for our carbon steel customers.
On the specialty steel front we were ranked #1 in quality.
And these outstanding performances and service to our great customers are the result of a great team effort by all of the employees of AK Steel a job well done by one and all.
At AK Steel we have a proud history and tradition of steelmaking.
Between AK Steel and its predecessor company we've now been in business for 111 years.
But for the efforts and the can-do spirit of those who'd came before us frankly there would be no AK Steel today.
I recently had the good fortune of visiting with several hundred I guess almost 1 000 of our retirees at their 50th Annual AK Steel/Armco Retiree Reunion.
It was a great opportunity for me to say thanks to all of them for their hard work and dedication.
To put things into perspective back in 1961 the first year of that reunion the former Armco had 83 plants in 15 countries employed more than 35 000 people and had sales of less than $1 billion.
Today in comparison AK Steel operates 9 plants with about 6 500 employees and we generate about $7 billion in annual sales.
That's 50 years of progress.
The opportunity to meet with our retirees also gave us a chance to reflect not just on what our company has done and how it's evolved over the past 50 years but on what we've accomplished over the past 7.5 years to honor their legacy.
For starters we've contributed nearly $1.2 billion in cash to the pension fund.
In addition we've continued to honor our commitment to retiree healthcare.
Importantly in meeting our commitments we've reached groundbreaking settlements regarding retiree healthcare costs.
For example last month we made the final payment of $65 million bringing total settlement payments to $663 million to wrap up our obligation in the Middletown retirees case.
Our OPEB liability which had stood at $2.2 billion in 2003 has now declined to $755 million as of March 31 2011.
In fact since the autumn of 2003 we've used our cash to reduce our outstanding debt negotiate retiree healthcare settlements fund the pension plan reinvest in the business and reward our shareholders.
We've been able to do all of these things in recent years with internally generated cash.
I've no doubt that this would not have happened without the resiliency of today's AK Steel employees who continue to exhibit that same can-do spirit as those who preceded them.
And I'm proud to lead them and to serve with each one of them.
In closing we're off to a great start in 2011.
We reported solid first quarter results.
And despite some challenges ahead we expect a much improved second quarter.
Each and every day we will continue to execute.
On behalf of our customers our shareholders and all of our constituents we're on the right track for continued progress in the months and years ahead.
Thank you very much for your attention.
With that we'd be happy to field your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Just have a question in terms of your second quarter outlook could you give us some color on the pricing side? The impact on your pricing outlook between carbon and specialty? Al I think in summary it was about 7% -- was the guidance we gave up...
7%.
We benefited Michael right from strong pricing certainly on the carbon side.
But better pricing as we look out to the second quarter on the electrical side than we had anticipated.
And stainless continues to be very solid.
And Mike I would just offer it's really an across-the-board thing.
We're benefiting from the previously announced price increases.
We're negotiating contracts as they expire.
And not only are we getting higher base prices but we're also incorporating certain variable price mechanisms and all of that is really kicking in for us in Q2.
And what are those variable price mechanisms and how much of that impact the overall mix? It's not a really big number yet I have to say.
And let me just offer a few thoughts in that regard.
It's a bit complex and I've got to be a little careful not to cross over into the dark side and upset customers here or for that matter suppliers.
But as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we're really delighted that we now have the degree of certainty.
And the way these raw material particularly iron ore deals work is that we'll know at the end of May what our third quarter cost will be with respect to iron ore.
So let's say a daily average if you will of the pricing and then that takes effect for the subsequent quarter.
And then we're able to where we have agreements in place pass-through it isn't exactly a dollar-for-dollar and each agreement is a bit different.
But as we continue to negotiate more of these as the number of the customer contracts roll off we expect to continue to recover more and more of our increasing costs.
It is absolutely the right direction that we have to move in and we'll get to a point we're not there yet where we have 100% of all of our contract deals that contain surcharge or variable pricing mechanisms to really help share some of the risk associated with these higher costs that we've been incurring.
Thanks a lot Jim.
Our next question comes from Michelle Applebaum of Steel Market.
Hi it's Steel Market Intelligence.
I was going to ask a little bit more specificity under my question.
Sure.
How many of your customers are willing to price in the iron ore prices? Today we won't do a deal Michelle with any customer a long-term contract or even one-year deal without getting those agreements in place.
And we've been successful in each case as they've expired.
Not all of our deals are done for 2011.
As you probably know some of them expire and are in effect January 1.
Some are the end of the first quarter and a variety of others occur throughout the year.
But that's really our stance.
That's the stance it has to be in light of the fact that really we've taken it on the chin for billions of dollars of higher input costs in the recent years.
You're saying you won't do a new contract unless there is an iron ore pass-through and a pass-through of the full increase in the iron ore cost? Each deal is going to be a bit unique.
So I don't know that we'll get dollar-for-dollar in every case as I said before.
But it's going to have to be a deal that has that provision in it.
And we'll get the best possible deal we can for in each case for our shareholders.
I guess it's an important distinction if you're getting the increase or you're not getting the increase.
So you're saying you may get some of the -- every deal will have an iron ore escalator.
But it may be less than the increase in iron ore or it may be the full increase? Yes part of the difficulty in getting much more specific Michelle is in each case of course we look at the overall profitability of the relationship the growth of the relationship.
There's a variety of factors that matter to us.
And in addition as we have with other sort of items that we've embedded previously there's a threshold that you have to establish.
And that depends kind of in the moment in time in which one gets these deals done.
So to blanket say that we'll get everything on the upside and some will have a threshold on the downside.
Some will allow for sharing.
It really does depend on the degree of risk and the overall deal that is cut in each case.
So it's just difficult to be a lot more specific except to say that as I said we'll get the deals done and they'll have an iron ore component in them.
Great.
Can I ask another one? Sure.
Your comments seemed -- you made some kind of disclaimer in the outlook about no one can predict what the impact of the Japanese production cuts might be.
So I'm presuming your guidance doesn't take into account the risk of cancellations of production domestically from parts impact? Well I would just reference this weekend's Wall Street where you had the 3 Toyota executives really speaking to the fact that this could be a bit longer than anyone expected.
We take our lead from people like Toyota and others who are extremely well diversified in the automotive sector.
But if it's worse than what they think then that could adjust our schedules as well.
So we're just noting that stating the facts as our customers have said to both of us directly and in the press.
We have tried to assess by individual automotive customer what it means? We have a spreadsheet that's worked through all that.
We have sort of a base case high low.
And again our guidance does incorporate what we expect to occur for the second quarter.
It incorporates both what we intend to ship to automotive which is a little less than what we thought but not dramatically less.
And we expect that to recover in the third quarter and really have our strongest shipment quarter to the automotive sector in the fourth quarter.
But our guidance is what it is.
It's always based at a point in time.
And so based on the information that we currently have we've considered that which has been made known publicly by all of the automotive companies.
But things are subject to change and that's the only point that we would make there.
Our next question is from Mark Parr of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey one thing.
Just as a point of clarification Al you had talked about the cash contributions the pension and did you -- you talked about finishing up the 2011 contribution in the next several weeks.
Yes sir.
You talked about a reduced expectation for 2012.
Right.
And then was there something else? Did you also talk about free cash payments related to VEBA contributions? The free cash payments Mark related to the Merkner case which we announced actually in January.
Those cash payments will be made as I mentioned the first one in the third quarter of this year.
And then subsequently in the third quarter of the next 2 years totaling $91 million.
All right.
So that's related to the Butler Works retirees? That is correct yes.
A special charge if you remember in the fourth quarter of $9 million associated with the settlement of that.
Yes I got that.
I just -- all right.
Another question again just a point of clarification.
Jim I think you had mentioned a grain-oriented volume was going to be up 15% in the second quarter relative to the first quarter is that right? Correct.
Okay.
Is that -- could you comment on that in the context of normal seasonal momentum? Is that an unusual gain? Or is that -- how does that -- what does that really mean? I think it's an increase in overall demand as global economies continue to recover.
There's a piece of it that might be just a bit seasonal but I would say the vast majority of it is an improvement and that's a very very good thing.
In fact I would guess that with the domestic market or the NAFTA market lagging a bit probably the international growth is even a bit higher than the 15% and a great bulk of that would be due to the stronger demand.
There really is a very good appetite at this point Mark and we're happy to see it of course for the high-end really the most efficient grades and that's where we're capitalizing on things and look forward to utilizing all the capabilities of our new #5 EAF as it continues to ramp up to meet those needs.
You think there might have been any impact here? People may be concerned about the ability of the Japanese to produce higher-end grain-oriented steels? I think that there's the possibility of course you'll never know for certain.
That could be a little bit of the opportunity that's there.
And I suppose we've had some inquiries.
But I don't think that's the bulk of what's happening here.
Again we think it's more fundamental in nature.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
This is actually John Sullivan filling in for Brian.
I have one quick question.
I was wondering if expectations with regards to electrical steel pricing for 2011 have changed since 4Q given the stronger demand expectations? I think we've seen the end of the slide which has been pretty painful.
But I don't know that we would give a revised outlook.
I think overall we were indicating that the prices would be down.
And I think that's still the case.
But things are strengthening.
And where we have the opportunity we will not be shy about raising prices.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Gagliano of Credit Suisse.
Great.
Thanks.
I just have a couple of quick questions.
First on on the electrical business can you quantify how much volume you actually have to sell into the spot market for the second half of 2011? I don't know that we've done that publicly.
Most of our business David as you know is contract.
We do have the ability to produce incrementally a bit more spot volume.
If there's volume there we'll be able to capture it if in fact the price makes sense.
But I think at the present time we've been saying that our sales would be somewhere in the up single-digit percentage wise year-over-year into the below to mid-200 000.
So we would have a little bit capability there.
But again it's a function of where this demand is and the type of product that they're seeking.
And I would just offer as well I think we've shared before that we're something like 70-30 in terms of contract to spot.
So one could do the math.
But it's a question of what's the base.
And as that base volume continues to improve I think that's a very good thing and a very positive sign for us.
In addition I think again while we're very sad to see what happened in Japan I think there's an opportunity for us longer-term to participate in the infrastructure rebuild over there.
And we're looking forward to those opportunities.
Okay.
Thanks.
So the mix now is 70-30 70 contract 30 spot.
And is that consistent throughout the course of the year? Meaning 30% of your volumes left to go in the second half? I think that's a reasonable number to use for your model.
It can fluctuate a few percentage points.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then just my follow-up question.
On the coal cost commentary that you made on -- during the prepared remarks.
Given that you signed your coal prior to the spike in prices I was wondering if you could help us quantify the incremental cost change for 2012.
If magically coal prices held current levels as we move through 2011 what would -- rough estimate on the incremental costs hit in 2012? Thanks.
It would be a big number.
I mean and that doesn't give you a degree of quantification.
But we're concerned about that.
I guess the good news is we were fortunate to get ahead of the recent increase.
But who’s to say what the coal prices will be.
We'll continue to kick the tires on some opportunities ourselves.
It's probably the next thing that we go after in terms of our agreements with customers to recognize that that too is an important element of our input costs.
Our next question is from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Have you seen any impact or anything from the so called the newer producers or the restarting producers as far as them going after your customer base? I'm thinking specifically of Tisson-Krupp [ph] service [ph] on Columbus which apparently is bringing on its new capacity earlier and of course the reopening of Sparrows.
Yes the short answer Chuck is that we have not seen much at all.
I think it's greatly overblown so far.
It's far more psychological than real.
But we'll see longer term.
We understand that TK for example may bring the market couple of million tons of product this year.
But a million tons or so might be hot-rolled.
And we fully expect it's going to take them a while to qualify on automotive particularly automotive exposed product.
And we're still not sure why our customers who rate us first would look to make the switch unless somebody wants to buy that business.
So we'll see.
Are they knocking on doors? I suspect they are.
Are they making lots of promises? I suspect they are.
I'm not sure the market needs that capacity whether it's in carbon or specialty anymore than they need the new capacity that you referenced including RG if that's what they're calling themselves.
But perhaps on the bright side the case of RG it's another slab supply opportunity for AK Steel.
So maybe there's maybe a bit of a silver lining there.
But short answer is we really haven't seen much of any of them just yet.
And secondly can you tell us how many slabs that you bought in the first quarter and have used? And what you expect that to look like maybe in the second half? It's a really interesting question because what we tried to buy and versus what was delivered were 2 different things.
So I'll be a little cautious there just to preserve the guilty party.
We I think consume somewhere in the 25 000 ton range in the first quarter.
That number should be substantially higher maybe triple or so in the second quarter.
And the second half remains to be seen.
As I mentioned we'll have the ability with our new EAF to make most of what we need.
However if there's the opportunity out there for us economically to buy rather than make we'll do that.
So I'd be cautious by giving a second half number.
And then finally has there been any real changes in your purchasing of scrap now that you've got the number 5 furnace up? Well we'll be buying more.
And we'll be buying it from that Pittsburgh market.
But I don't think we're doing anything other than what we've been doing which is trying to buy smart.
Try and buy appropriately in terms of the mix of scrap which our group has done an excellent job on for years now.
And we try and be representative participants in the marketplace and we'll continue to do so.
Our next question comes from Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Couple of quick questions Al housekeeping and then from iron ore.
What's the pension OPEB credit or expense during the quarter and what was the LIFO? The pension expense Sal was actually a credit of $100 000.
The OPEB credit was about $8.3 million.
We would expect for the year the pension expense to be close to a push maybe $1 million credit.
And for OPEB about $35 million credit.
And for LIFO LIFO in the quarter was around $25 million.
That was up about $15 million quarter-over-quarter.
Thanks.
Jim you mentioned that by the end of May you will have the idea of what the iron ore price will be -- cost will be for the second quarter.
So then you have a month lag and a quarterly average.
Is that the way it's going to work out? Yes I wasn't clear.
Sal we already know the second quarter.
Sorry.
Third quarter yes.
That was determined at the end of February.
We'll know the third quarter at the end May and the fourth quarter at the end of August.
Got you.
And there was another issue last year was not only that the duration wasn't fixed.
But also what price to use because there was no benchmark global benchmark for the palette.
Is it not tied to the iron ore fine price with some escalator on top of it? Yes each of our deals once again is a little unique.
But I think it's fair to say that in general there are more tied now to the IODEX index as the benchmark.
Okay.
And one more thing.
Last conference call you had given us although you don't give guidance quarter out just for the next quarter.
But you have given us some view on what kind of pricing you would expect for the second quarter.
Based on the second quarter price increase would be higher than the first quarter price increase versus the fourth quarter we saw.
How do you look at third quarter? Do you have any view what prices would do at that time or based on your sort of contract agreements and the lead times? Well we'll sort of stay with our long tradition of only providing one quarter's worth of guidance.
But with respect to the issue of pricing sustainability there has been a bit of what I'll call recent cautious buying in anticipation of these additional supply coming on-stream that Charles Bradford mentioned.
Again I think it's more psychological than anything so far.
We'll see going forward.
But frankly Sal with service center inventories as low as they are and demand and the fundamentals remaining pretty strong here you couple that with these stubbornly high input costs that we've been yapping about.
And I think there's every reason to believe that prices are going to stabilize if not rise from here.
Okay.
And one last thing.
How much in advance do you get an indication from the auto customers about the delivery schedule? Is it they tell you in a quarter in advance? What I mean is that if the Japanese impact is more than expected less than expected how far in advance you would generally find that out? Well we're talking if not every day every other day at this point.
And we would get a more formal update every week.
So and with some of them as you might imagine we have people at their plants.
So we're pretty much real time.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Most of my question has actually been answered already.
But maybe just briefly if you could give us an update on how the electrical steel WTO case is going with China and maybe if there's any chance that we could see some increased spot sales for ES if that's the result itself within 2010 -- 2011? Excuse me.
We certainly wish that we had a favorable answer for you.
But we remain essentially zoned out of China.
As in the past we've been encouraged that our U.S.
trade rep Ron Kirk is pursuing the review and continue to believe that that's the right thing.
And that there's really no factual or legal basis for the case.
China is a tremendous growth opportunity for us.
We want to get back in there just as quickly as we can.
But we have no news to share with you today Evan with respect to that case.
But we're on it.
Okay.
And then maybe what is your rough breakdown between the D3 producers and the transplants at this point? I don't know that we've shared that.
Other than to say that again in total our automotive business might be 30% to 33% of our sales and that no single customer accounts for a double-digit percent of sales.
We are very well diversified.
We have had the good fortune over the years of growing with the transplant automakers.
And as obviously they've grown in the states.
But we have a tremendous relationship as well these days with Ford and improving with others.
So I would not necessarily try and put the number on that.
Our sense is look this is a business.
Its competition that where one may struggle another may step up to take some market opportunity.
And we're there to serve all of our customers.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Deutsche Bank.
Regarding you guys had made some comments about electrical steel demand in Q2.
Just given the situation in Japan do you guys have any additional comments you can offer for the back half of the year? Again we hope to be able to continue to increase our levels of production and shipments.
We're about that.
We're really pulling together the degree of clarity when you get beyond the quarter anymore and given the faster cycles that we're seeing in really all of the markets.
I think we'd be hesitant to give a forecast.
Having said that we don't see electrical steel stepping back.
We look for it to continue to improve in the second half and beyond.
The overall global recovery economic recovery needs to continue to take hold.
I think that's happening.
And then of course the U.S.
recovery with respect to in particular residential construction needs to improve.
And that's taking a bit longer.
But overall we look for a better market there.
And as we look at the out years expect that to continue.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Jamie Melzer of Bank of America.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a couple of quick things if I can.
I wanted to circle back to the met pricing.
Do you have any remaining exposure to your annual needs for met this year? And then I guess if you could just remind us what the annual kind of tonnage going into 2012 and if any of those are contracted? Well short answer is we don't really have much exposure there.
Our annual needs Jamie are generally speaking between coal that we buy directly and what we're buying for our batteries operated by SunCoke runs about 2 million tons a year.
And like I said those needs are largely met contractually for the year.
Okay.
And then are any of those contracted for 2012 or they're open? We do have some contracts that extended into 2012.
But generally speaking the price has to be negotiated generally speaking within a collar.
Got you.
Okay.
And is that determined based on market pricing at that time? Well there's a number of indices if you will that are used.
That marketplace is certainly one.
But there's a bit of negotiation within that collar.
Okay.
And then one other quick question.
I know it's hard to pinpoint on the cost side because there's a lot of moving pieces.
But assuming all of this is kind of held equal what kind of cost savings would you expect to see from the Butler Works the new EAF at Butler Works once it's fully ramped up? I don't know.
$50 a ton.
Okay.
Perfect.
Well we should also point out Jamie there's 2 benefits there.
Just exactly what Jim mentioned but also the ability if you will to produce slabs for instead of buying on the merchant market.
So there's not only an operating cost benefit but also the ability if you will to have flexibility and also to negotiate better prices from purchased slabs in that instance.
If in fact we wish too.
In other words Jamie it's a really good project for us.
We're excited that it's coming up.
And we can't wait until it gets to full capacity.
And are you expecting the ramp up of the full capacity in the second half of this year? Second quarter and really start tasting it the second half.
Nice.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies and Co.
This is David O'kovetski[ph] on Brett's behalf.
My first question relates to the legacy liabilities.
You guys have presented a fairly strict payment schedule.
Just curious can that be pushed out by a year? Is there any flexibility with respect to the pensions or the OPEB or the VEBA? We don't need to push it out candidly.
Our liquidity is strong.
We feel very good about what we've done and what we'll do.
I think as Al mentioned in his comments we intend to make the remaining pension agreement.
We've taken advantage of this 7 2 or 2 7 whatever it is.
A legislation that has allowed us to reduce as many other companies have with defined benefit pension plans.
And so our numbers are very manageable.
We're very comfortable with them.
The big VEBA settlement that we had at Middletown for all intents and purposes is done.
The last payments have been done there.
The Butler retiree settlement as far as smaller in scope none-the-less important but far smaller in scope.
So I would just say that the big numbers are a lot smaller now.
And they're very much within our capability to manage.
So we're not seeking waivers or pushing things out or anything.
Quite the contrary we'll continue to do everything we can to meet and honor our obligations and further strengthen the balance sheet.
That's great to hear.
And then I guess further on the liquidity side.
You had a little bit of a working capital build this quarter.
Was that more in anticipation of a strong second quarter? Or was that primarily to meet first quarter demand and I guess is there going to be a need for further working capital increases and revolver draws during 2Q? David excellent question and thanks for asking it.
Sometimes it takes money to make money.
And that was really the case in the first quarter.
And we'll see the benefit of that in the second quarter.
We're confident.
As we improved our sales as we rebuilt inventories to some extent with higher priced inputs we see the effects of all of that.
We also had a very large use of capital that is for capital investments.
So it's working capital and capital investments as we wrap up the spending on the #5 EAF.
And then coupled with that the pension contribution and the VEBA settlement.
So there were a number of uses all made great sense in the minds of our management team and our Board.
And we'll use our facility to the extent that it's a working capital based facility when we need to use it.
But I think all of this is in an effort to continue to grow the company profitably and to generate that positive cash flow that we're known for doing over the years.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Just very briefly everybody.
Although there will undoubtedly be challenges along the way AK Steel expects a much better 2011 than 2010.
And certainly a much better second quarter 2011 than first quarter.
For years at our company we have met and overcome challenges only to emerge as an industry leader.
And we plan to do exactly that.
Again in 2011 in service to our customers employees retirees and shareholders.
Thank you all very much for joining us today.
Have a great day and a better tomorrow.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
And you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; and Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
the Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone.
In a moment I'll review our second quarter 2011 financial results as well as provide some guidance for the third quarter.
Following my remarks Jim will offer his comments and field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments products mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences and results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent we will refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
Earlier today AK Steel reported net income for the second quarter of $33.1 million or $0.30 per share representing another solid quarterly performance.
The results include a $2 million charge or $0.02 per share related to state tax law changes in Alabama Indiana Michigan and New Jersey.
Shipments for the second quarter of 2011 totaled 1 497 000 tons an increase of more than 5% compared to the prior quarter.
Our average selling price was $1 185 per ton an increase of approximately 7% compared to the first quarter and consistent with our guidance.
Revenues totaled $1 792 000 000 an increase of more than 13% compared to the prior quarter.
Sales outside the U.S.
continued to be an important source of revenue for us totaling approximately $273 million or an increase of 25% over the previous quarter.
Our second quarter results include one-time cost of approximately $1.1 million associated with the shutdown of the Ashland Works coke plant.
In addition continued higher raw material cost resulted in a LIFO charge of $38.8 million for the quarter which was higher than anticipated.
Netting revenues and costs we achieved an operating profit of $68.5 million or $46 per ton for the second quarter of 2011 compared to $19.5 million or $14 per ton for the first quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the second quarter we made capital investments totaling $30.7 million.
I would point out that our capital spending has been front-end loaded this year.
During the first half our capital investments totaled $66.3 million.
However we still expect that our total capital investments for 2011 will be approximately $85 million.
As business conditions and shipments improved during the second quarter we had an expected increase in working capital approximately $99 million.
We will continue to be focused on managing working capital throughout the year and anticipate that it will be roughly flat for the full year 2011.
During the second quarter we contributed $140 million to our pension fund bringing our year-to-date contributions to $170 million which completes our funding requirements for 2011.
Looking at our results for the first 6 months of 2011 revenues for the first half were $3.4 billion compared to $3 billion dollars in the first half of 2010.
Sales outside the U.S.
totaled $491 million for the first 6 months constituting roughly 15% of our revenues.
Shipments for the first 6 months of 2011 were 2.9 million tons an improvement of roughly 85 000 tons compared to our shipment level for the first 6 months of 2010.
Our average selling price for the first half of 2011 was $1 148 per ton which was more than 8% higher than for our first two quarters of last year.
At the bottom line we reported net income of $41.8 million for the first 6 months of 2011 or $0.38 per diluted share.
Moving to guidance for the third quarter we expect shipments between 1.4 million and 1.45 million tons with the average selling price per ton declining about 1% from the Q2 level.
We anticipate raw material costs will be up about $20 per ton quarter-over-quarter with most of that increase attributable to iron ore.
And we see planned maintenance outage costs decreasing by about $5 million from Q2 levels.
Bringing all those items together we expect to generate an operating profit of about $15 per ton in Q3.
It's important to note that those results do not include the financial impact of the incident with the new 5 EAF at our Butler Works in Pennsylvania.
As we previously reported number 5 EAF experienced extensive damage on July 1 when molten steel breached the furnished shell.
We carry both property damage and business interruption insurance for all of our facilities and while the total impact is still being assessed today we believe that our financial exposure will be limited to about $10 million.
Since the timing of the filing and resolution of our insurance claims is presently uncertain and could involve more than one quarter the amount of cost that we incur in the third quarter cannot be determined at this time.
And now for his comments I'll turn it over to Jim.
Thank you very much Al.
Good morning everyone and thanks to each of you for joining us on today's call.
AK Steel's second quarter of 2011 results represent a significant improvement over our first quarter of this year as we more than tripled our Q1 operating profit per ton performance.
In many respects it was our best quarter in quite a while.
Our second quarter of 2011 shipments were their highest in 3 years since the second quarter of 2008 and our profitability that is our operating profit our net income and our EPS were their highest in the past 6 quarters since the fourth quarter of 2009.
Having said that we did fall short of our own expectations and our guidance for the second quarter.
The majority of our shortfall was due to higher-than-expected iron ore pellet prices with the balance of the miss due to lower carbon spot market shipments and prices that took place late in the quarter.
As global steel production set records during the second quarter and thus fueled demand for iron ore like never before we continued to experience much higher iron ore prices than we had expected at the beginning of this year and at the start of the second quarter.
And for that matter it now appears that these higher iron ore prices will continue in the second half of 2011.
This outlook resulted in a substantially higher-than-expected LIFO charge for us for Q2 of about $11 per ton.
Speaking of iron ore perhaps it's worthwhile for me to take a moment or two to review how AK Steel's iron ore purchases are priced.
2011 is the first year that AK Steel has agreed with each of its 3 iron ore suppliers on a quarterly pricing mechanism that is largely tied to the IODEX index.
For the IODEX component the price we're paying for iron ore pellets for the third quarter of 2011 was established with reference to the average IODEX price for the months of March April and May.
And on top of that base price there is added a pellet premium a quality factor and freight charges as well.
Similarly the IODEX component of the price that we'll pay for iron ore pellets for the fourth quarter of this year will be set by referencing the average IODEX price for the months of June July and August.
Simply stated the IODEX has not fallen as far or as fast as we had previously anticipated or for that matter as all of the experts had anticipated as well.
And as a result iron ore pricing for third quarter is higher than we had anticipated.
And we now expect that iron ore pricing for us in the fourth quarter will be higher than previously expected as well.
I want to assure you that we're not sitting idly by while these higher costs are impacting our bottom line.
Quite the contrary.
We're doing a number of things.
For example where possible we're raising spot market selling prices and in addition we're seeking to recover these higher costs in our customer sales agreements as old agreements expire and new deals are put in place.
To be clear as our agreements with contract customers come up for renewal we are negotiating arrangements to recover these higher iron ore costs.
Accordingly by the end of 2011 we expect that each of our major contract sales agreements will have been renegotiated and that each one will contain a provision that either directly or indirectly allows for the recovery of a significant portion of the higher iron ore prices.
We're educating our customers about similar dynamics in the metallurgical coal market and as an alternative to paying a higher fixed price for our steel.
We're also introducing pricing mechanisms in our sales contracts that would allow us to recover a significant portion of our increasing coal costs.
We also remain keenly focused on enhancing our vertical integration profile especially as it relates to iron ore and coal in an effort to lower our operating costs.
We hope to have more to report on the subject in the very near future.
Let me now take a moment to comment on the recent incident at the new #5 electric arc furnace or EAF at our Butler Works that Al referenced in his remarks.
Following an outstanding start-up period the new EAF experienced the breakout of molten metal on the 1st of July.
Most importantly no one was injured as a result of this incident.
In fact I want to take this opportunity to commend all of our employees and the emergency responders whose cool heads and quick actions prevented any injuries.
We've now assessed the extent of the physical damage and we're making the necessary repairs and depending on lead times for certain items.
We would expect that the new furnace would resume operations by about the end of September.
At present we're unable to say when all of the repair costs and expected insurance recoveries will take place but let me reiterate Al's point that we do not expect the net exposure to AK Steel to exceed $10 million.
In the meantime we've continued to meet the needs of our specialty steel customers without interruption.
We resumed production of our specialty steel products at Butler Works within about 24 hours with the 3 existing EAFs that have been idled upon the startup of #5.
Suffice it to say this has been an exciting and an eventful quarter for AK Steel in many respects.
We were honored to receive the Best Operational Improvement Of The Year award from American Metal Market and we were pleased to be named as a finalist for the Environmental Stewardship Award as well.
As planned we safely and successfully shut down the Ashland coke plant during the second quarter and I'm delighted that nearly every employee from the coke plant who wanted to continue to work at our company was provided an opportunity to do so at the Ashland Works steel plant.
In order to replace the lost Ashland Works coke production we procured coke from several third-party producers to meet our short-term needs as we continue to determine the best long-term coke strategy to serve the Ashland blast furnace.
Speaking of coke I'm pleased to report that the SunCoke Middletown project continues to move closer to completion and I want to congratulate SunCoke's management team on their successful initial public offering last week.
We believe that production at their SunCoke Middletown facility will begin early in the fourth quarter of this year and frankly we can't wait.
In our constantly changing world our focus at AK Steel continues to be centered around 3 things: First taking care of our people and keeping them safe; second serving our customers better than any other steelmaker and providing them with the best quality steel products available; and third last but not least creating value for our shareholders.
That has not changed nor will it change anytime soon.
And so with those things in mind let me comment on how well we're performing in each case.
While we can always improve and we will we have a continuous improvement philosophy.
We're certainly making progress on the employee safety front.
The most recent data available for industry comparisons are those from Q1 of this year.
Those results show that AK Steel was performing at a level that was about 6x better than the steel industry average.
Of particular note our Zanesville Ohio plant has now gone more than 3 000 days without experiencing a single loss time injury.
That is a fantastic accomplishment.
As solid as our safety performance has been across all of our plants frankly one injury anywhere in our company is one injury too many.
Moving from our employees to our customers let me offer a couple of insights starting with product quality.
During the first half of 2011 our internal quality measures were simply outstanding.
Our performances for internal rejections and retreated products each set new records for the second quarter and the first half.
We appreciate the business we enjoy from all of our customers.
And one of those customers Flack Steel chose to honor AK Steel during the second quarter with a Supplier of the Year Award.
We're delighted to receive this honor and appreciate Flack Steel's confidence in our company.
And on a broader basis once again AK Steel faired very well in the Jacobson Independent Survey of our carbon and specialty steel customers.
For the second quarter of 2011 AK Steel was ranked #1 in quality and on-time delivery.
These performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our carbon market.
And on the specialty steel front we received a #1 ranking in the area of quality.
These outstanding performances and service to our great customers don't just happen.
Our people make them happen.
So I want to take this opportunity to salute the employees of AK Steel on doing a great job the best in the business for our customers.
While we're on the subject of customers let me take a few moments to comment on what we're experiencing in the markets that we serve.
As most of you know AK Steel is unique among its peers in the steel business since we manufacture high value-added well-diversified product mix of carbon stainless and electrical steels to our customers.
In terms of the carbon steel market we continue to see strength from our automotive customers.
Our automotive customers are experiencing higher sales which is driving the need for increased steel shipments of both our carbon and ferritic stainless steels.
Most of our customers who were impacted during the second quarter by the supply disruptions due to the Japan earthquakes are returning to more normal production schedules.
For example Toyota has indicated that they expect to return to full production by the end of September.
Automotive inventories remain in good shape as well at the end of June.
Light vehicle inventories of domestically produced vehicles stood at about 57 days compared to some 55 days a year ago.
Speaking of inventory levels let me briefly comment on inventories at service centers.
Historically carbon flat-rolled inventories at service centers have averaged about 2.4 months of supply on hand.
But as of June 30 that figure was 2.0 months of supply on hand.
In other words by historical standards inventories are relatively low.
I think it's fair to say that service center buying activity has moderated somewhat particularly late in the second quarter as buyers had settled into a very cautious buying mode.
With short lead times available at the present time service centers are simply buying what they need and only when they need it no more and no less.
The other large market that we serve at AK Steel is the I&amp;M or Infrastructure and Manufacturing market.
This market includes appliance and HVAC customers as well as other steel-consuming industries and it continues to exhibit signs of recovery.
It's our sense that the general manufacturing environment took a short pause in the second quarter but we believe that things have begun to pick up.
Let me turn briefly from Carbon to Specialty Steels.
Our Specialty Steel products serving the automotive and appliance markets were in strong demand during the second quarter and we expect that demand strength to continue into Q3.
Commodity 300 series stainless sales were held back a bit in the second quarter by the nickel surcharge which fell effective July 1.
Buyers simply waited on the sidelines but with nickel prices now beginning to head higher we've recently seen an uptick in buying activity.
As I mentioned earlier our 400 series stainless steel used in automotive exhaust applications enjoyed another solid quarter and the outlook for that product line remains positive.
Some of our specialty stainless steel applications including stainless products for appliance and industrial manufacturers are in high demand with lead times out as far as the October timeframe.
Stainless steel service center inventories have historically averaged about 3.8 months of supply on hand and that compared to an actual figure of only 2.6 months of supply on hand at the end of June.
Staying with specialty steels for a moment I'm particularly pleased about our progress in electrical steels.
We've begun to see a rebound in this market both domestically and abroad with sales volumes and pricing both improving.
In the second quarter we actually set a company record for international sales of our green-oriented electrical steel products.
Demand for our high-quality low-noise product continues to be quite strong.
As we move into the third quarter we're also seeing increased domestic interest for electrical steel restocking activities by the utility companies and rebuilding activities particularly in the southeastern part of the U.S.
following the rash of spring tornadoes appear to be driving really the great increase in domestic demand.
Before taking your questions let me briefly comment on one other subject that has been on the minds of a number of people lately and that would be the increased capacity in the Steel business.
Since I got in the Steel business some 30 years ago including spending the past 16 here at AK Steel this has been a common refrain.
Fears of capacity increases from imports mini-mill expansion or domestic integrated producers.
Somehow facing all of these fears whether real or imagined AK Steel has found a way to compete and win.
Although steel is frequently viewed as a commodity business I would offer that not all steel is created equally and that's a good thing if you're AK Steel.
That's because we focus on serving the most demanding customers the toughest product applications in the most difficult markets.
Currently AK Steel is not the biggest steel maker and that's just fine with us.
We have no desire to be the biggest just the best and we make it our business to be the best in each of our products.
So even though the additional capacity is coming online we feel it's unnecessary we will continue to compete and I believe we'll fare quite well against the competition both old and new.
Frankly I'd be far more concerned if we had lousy customer relationships or consistently produced poor quality steel or delivered it in an unreliable fashion and provided inadequate or no customer service but that's not who we are at AK Steel.
And that's not how we garnered the top rankings from Carbon and Specialty Steel customers.
So although time will tell it always does we're confident at AK Steel that we're well-positioned to continue to compete and to continue to win.
We have a great steel company but our costs are simply too high especially our steelmaking input costs.
That's no excuse that's a fact.
We get it and I can assure you that we're working very hard to remedy this situation on behalf of our shareholders to unlock further value.
We know something about winning at AK Steel.
Time and again we faced adversity and emerged as the stronger company.
I have no doubt that will continue to be the case.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our prepared remarks.
At this time both Al and I would be happy to respond your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
I just have a question Jim about what you're saying in terms of the miss on the guidance that you had given.
I guess in late April it was related --  you had said related to higher-than-expected iron ore pellet prices and the weakness in the spot prices in the quarter weaker than you thought.
But I mean I just don't understand this pellet issue because when you are sitting there in late April when you gave the guidance you should have already known what the pellet prices were based on the contract lags because the second-quarter pricing of pellets was based on February January and December.
You were already almost two months past that date.
Michael let me help out there.
Much of the miss is not so much the cost that we incurred for the second quarter but rather the outlook going forward for the second half.
And so we have this situation because of last-in first-out accounting that we have to then go back and true up.
So if your ultimate year-end estimate if you will of iron ore prices are not coming down as far or as fast then you have to actually go back and true up and that's really the biggest piece of the LIFO hit.
I think that's something like $8 of the $11 or something.
Right.
Michael the LIFO impact is driven off our expectation for our fourth quarter pricing which is June July and August if you will.
In other words that was what driving the bus in terms of the ultimate miss from a LIFO perspective.
It wasn't that we were looking just of that one quarter we had to look out further than that.
Candidly we expected prices to be coming down more sharply than they're appearing to the right now.
I think a lot it had to do Mike as well with the outlook at that time that for example China was a bit sluggish the recovery was a little bit slower than expected.
Again all of the experts' inputs that we got indicated that prices would be falling.
As it turns out as you know in the month of June for example China produced more than 2 million metric tons per day.
And we've look very closely at correlation between Chinese steel production and the IODEX index and it's really spot on.
So it's simply the way things evolved versus the way we thought things would evolve.
And as a result of that we've trued up for the second quarter and updated our outlook for balance of the year.
So are you trued up enough now to withstand the current level of iron ore prices in the world being in place for the rest of the year? Is that it? There is still an anticipation that iron ore prices will decline slightly but not nearly as much as we had previously expected.
Okay.
So the true up in the quarter was $8 million? Well the total LIFO charge Michael in the second quarter was about $39 million and our first quarter impact from LIFO was about $23 million.
So if you'd sort of normalize that if you will our normal LIFO charge should have been say $31 million and $31 million.
So the impact of the second quarter of the first quarter true up is about $8 million.
Okay.
And what about true up going forward relative to what you thought? Well the thing is as you know LIFO is calculated predicated on our expectation for the full year.
We've taken 1/2 of our expected LIFO charge in the first 6 months.
And so net-net we should be expecting all other things being equal that our LIFO charge in the second half of the year should decline in the third quarter versus the second quarter because the second quarter included the true up.
I'll just offer not to confuse matters further but LIFO is always a bit of a challenge.
We don't really know our results until we close the books because it depends on not just iron ore it depends on things like coal and coke and scrap and gas and nickel and everything else not only the expected year-end values but the expected year-end volumes.
So all of that goes into the mix.
Most of it moved against us unfortunately as commodity prices remain very high.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Just a question for you first on your volume guidance for the third quarter your $1.4 million to $1.45 million target.
In your commentary you sound pretty bullish on how markets are improving as far as autos and general manufacturing plus inventories being low.
Just wondering how you kind of reconcile those 2 views.
Let me just offer this is Jim a couple of thoughts there Evan.
The fact of the matter is we continue to see strength primarily in our contract markets.
The spot-market activity is less robust some of that is a function of the typical seasonality that we face in the third quarter little bit of import pressure.
We've seen actually a fair amount of increased imports last quarter and then the first half.
And then this ongoing perception of increased supply we'll be continuing to move as much as we can as quickly as we can more towards the contract arena.
But I think it simply recognizes those factors when we guide.
Okay.
And then maybe one question on electrical steel.
It sounds like internationally prices are starting to move up you mentioned that a little bit in your comments but we're hearing kind of 300 to 500 Japanese producers and it seems like in OM case [ph] of about $700 a ton this year.
How much of that opportunity you think you've captured to date? I know a lot of your international contracts are quarterly.
Is there a chance that we can see another reset higher in the fourth quarter? We're doing everything we can to recover higher prices as quickly as we can.
Many of the deals that we have though and we're predominantly a contract player here are reset annually.
So we'll capture what we can when we can.
I think the good news is that as we look at that market as I'd mentioned in my prepared remarks it is indeed improving.
I think previously we'd said at one point we thought it would be up 10% and we upped that to about 15%.
I would say that we would now be comfortable indicating that it's probably going to be somewhere closer to 18% to 20% higher year-over-year.
And the vast majority of that growth again has been in a non-NAFTA variety in other words international.
So we're capitalizing on that where we can.
And then just more recently again a function of the utilities restocking the rebuilding after the tornadoes and very recently with the heatwave that we've had that has resulted in the failure of a number of transformers that need to be replaced.
We're seeing thankfully some domestic growth there as well.
So all those factors I think are going to speak well to increased volumes and increased pricing.
Of the increases in volume what sort of opportunity is there on the high-perm side or is most of that going to be -- are you running full there already? Is most of that going to be commodity kind of M2 to M6 grades? I don't know that we really get into individual grades.
But I would say that because of our ability to produce some high-end that has been a product that's been more in demand.
We'd never say that we're at "capacity" in any of our particular grades.
But we're pushing the edge of the envelope there and we'll try and eke out more as we can.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
I want to go back to Michael's question earlier just about your iron ore costs.
I think Al in your prepared remarks you said that raw materials will be up about $20 per ton to your iron ore.
So if you're trued up through 2Q and the IODEX adjusted for contract lag is down in 3Q what else is driving it? Well Brian as you know under our contracts with our iron ore suppliers and the price we pay for pellets is adjusted quarterly.
For example our third quarter pellet cost is based upon our average IODEX price for say March April and May.
However the pellet cost that hits our P&amp;L is also impacted by the cost that we have in inventory as we consume pellets on an average on blended-cost basis.
And as we consume pellets during the year on a year-over-year basis the cost of pellets is going up.
So in effect we're consuming less and less of the lower-cost pellets and more and more of the increased-cost pellets.
And so even though there's been a moderation in the price in that IODEX index if you will we continue to push through our cost of goods sold if you will more of those increased cost pellets that we're getting in this year.
Okay.
So that $20 does that refer to quarter-on-quarter or year-on-year? Well that's not all iron ore of course.
The bulk of it is iron ore but we're also being hit by increased natural gas and electricity costs.
We've had some purchased lab costs work their way through there.
And obviously coating materials and things like that.
Now nickel is going the other way but of course because of the surcharges we in effect pass that through.
So it's not all pellets but frankly the proponents of that increases is on the pellet side.
Okay.
And can I ask you a question on the contracts? Last quarter you indicated that you weren't comfortable giving out expectations about your iron ore prices because your contracts have variable price mechanisms that's supposed to offset it.
And now I think this quarter the positioning is a little bit different where you mention you still have some fixed-price contracts.
Can you give us a sense of what percent of your contracts are fixed and therefore don't quite allow for that cost recovered mechanisms yet versus those that already have that built in? This is Jim Wainscott.
I would say that we're in the midst of renegotiating a number of deals.
We have a couple that are cooking right now as we speak that are not done.
We've got a few done already but they expire throughout the course of the year.
And I wouldn't necessarily say that it's half and half.
I'd step back first and say that somewhere around 55% of our business would be contract business about 45% if I had to ballpark it would be spot.
Of the 55% probably less than 1/2 still would have had renegotiated deals plus or minus.
So we still got a ways to go and it's going to be an ongoing process as we go through this.
Not only are we talking about recovering iron ore but also we're introducing coal which we need to do as I mentioned earlier.
So really as we turn the calendar to '11 [ph] of '12 we would hope in some fashion to have all of those contract deals reflect iron ore.
So that really hasn't changed from any earlier commentary.
I know it's an interesting and unique concept all we're trying to do is to make sure that we price our products appropriately to generate a margin to sustain the ongoing viability of the business nothing more nothing less.
But we can't do that we have to honor the existing contracts that we have until those come up for renegotiation.
Our next question comes from Mark Parr from KeyBanc.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I am curious if you could provide a little more color on how much low -- Al you were talking about lower-priced pellets and higher-priced pellets how much of that process has unfolded? And is there a potentially more of the mix shift that we could expect in the fourth quarter? It's a process Mark of just mix.
As you get -- we purchase close to 6 million tons of pellets a year.
We get about -- I think this year we're expecting around 5.8 million tons of pellets.
They come in somewhat ratably during the year.
We'd probably get it a little bit more in the second quarter and the third quarter because of the shifting seasons and things like that.
But it's just sort of as we're consuming them at both of our blast furnaces if you will your average cost if it was going to be affected not only by what you're consuming but also what you're accepting.
And so all it was a sort of an indication that even though the price that we're getting in is maybe moderating somewhat the fact that that price is still higher than what our post for last year is an indication that our average cost might be going up.
And I was just wondering how much more of that we might have to unfold for the fourth quarter and into the first part of next year? Well I think they're not -- I mean clearly the amount of pellets that we have left over from last year is diminishing or will diminish certainly after the third quarter.
That number will moderate somewhat.
I think we got hit or we're expecting to get hit in the third quarter probably harder than most.
But it will moderate I guess starting in the fourth quarter and into the next year again depending upon where the price of pellets goes.
Okay.
And if I can ask just one follow-up question.
I think Jim you had talked about improving demand momentum both in the carbon and stainless markets.
Could you give a little color in terms of how ores look now compared to say earlier in the second quarter? Or you've seen things they were okay then they've eased off now they're picking up.
Give us some idea of what that pickup means in terms of the downdraft we've seen.
Again I think if you look at the spot market as I mentioned before which is driving spot prices lower it's a little sloppy right now.
I would say that in our own case order intake rates have been lower in recent weeks and the pricing has been under pressure.
That condition really has not abated just yet.
It's a function of a number of things I mentioned.
But as we look sort of year-over-year comparable quarters we've probably got a few more tons to sell now than we had a year ago at this time.
So I think that gives us some sense of the spot market.
Our products can certainly go into the spot market but we'd probably have a better home for them and can make all the quality and on-time delivery demands of the contract business and that's where we'll continue to migrate as I've said.
Automotive being a case in point I think we were negatively impacted probably in the 25 000 to 30 000 ton range in the second quarter as a result of the Japan effect.
But I think that has indeed abated and we should benefit as we go forward as everybody ramps up.
Just a couple of data points you recall last year automotive came in at about 11.9 million just under 12 million in terms of the sales trend.
But through the first half of this year I think we're on pace at about 12.5 million and most of the prognosticators now say it's going to be north of 13 million units.
So we continue to participate in that in a nice way.
The infrastructure and manufacturing market has been kind to us as well.
And again we're seeing an updraft in the Specialty Steel business in a variety of places.
300 is just starting to come back 400 has been strong for us in the Specialty component a lot of the products we make out of Coshocton has been very very solid so.
And I think we're doing all of that in what is clearly still a very slow economic recovery with a lot of uncertainty.
So I'm happy about all of that.
I think directionally we'll do the right things in terms of moving some of our Carbon business into contract and then we'll see where she goes from here.
Clearly the longer-term issue the longer-term challenge for us has nothing to do with our customer relationships or quality or delivery and anything else.
Really it's about fixing the cost side of things.
And as I mentioned before we're very much about that.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> Just a follow-up question here.
When I look at the IODEX it's a little more or less stable I guess this January.
There's been some movement around there.
But could you share with us what your expectation of iron ore pricing is by year end? Perhaps to help us understand this a little bit in how you guys have kind of modeled out the LIFO situation? And then I've got a follow-up on electrical steel.
All we'll say Tony is the LIFO is actually not going to be driven by year-end actually it will be driven by the price at the end of August because that will set our fourth quarter number.
And again if you look at the IODEX going back to -- if you go in terms some of the pellets that we've received you talk about it this year and we agreed that it has been rather flat.
But if you go back to the first quarter which is being set September October November the IODEX and again please keep in mind this is just the base load in other words the base of the IODEX and then frankly there's calculations made above that to get to our pellet price fair enough [ph] $150 whereas clearly it's moved up into the $170 $180-ish area.
But like I said what would drive our LIFO calculation is really the fourth quarter calculation which is June July and August for us not December 31.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on the electrical steel market and I want to make sure I heard this correctly when Jim mentioned up 18% to 20% were you talking about your view of your volumes or is that more of a global consumption? And then just to get a better feel for the rough percentage of your contracts which are readjusted quarterly versus annually.
Tony when I speak about the 18% to 20% that's really referencing AK Steel specifically.
That would not reference what's going on more broadly.
I think that obviously there were some production disruptions around the world.
So some might be up and some might be down but we certainly enjoyed a benefit in things.
And then in terms of the resets again it's really a function of what is contract and what isn't.
There is a in all of our agreements for specialty products a variable adjustor with respect to materials.
So while that can change the base prices with respect to the vast majority of our business from electrical steel are set and then the spot market will be what it will be.
Al you want to? No no.
I think that's right.
And again what Jim's talking about 18% to 20% is our yearly shipments year-over-year.
That's correct.
Yes.
Let me just so there's no...
'10 to 2011.
Yes.
Our next question is from Michelle Applebaum of Steel Market.
I just want to make sure that this is really clear because I have it and I'm glad that money I paid for an MBA in accounting during inflationary times is paying off really big these days.
The opportunity to use it today.
So you had $23 million of a LIFO charge in the first quarter anticipating a full year LIFO charge of $92 million.
On the basis of a change in your forecast for iron ore prices at year-end what your inventory would be at year end you raised your full year LIFO charge from $92 million to $124 million.
In order to do that you had a true up for the six months and take a $39 million charge for LIFO versus the $23 million in the first quarter.
Of the $39 million $8 million is a first quarter retroactive and the remainder which is another $8 million is your new increased charge.
So you're ongoing LIFO charge will not be $39 million a quarter it will be only $31 million a quarter.
Michelle you're exactly right.
Except all we would say is that the LIFO charge in the third quarter will be dictated by our expectations at that time.
I know it changes every quarter.
Things could change but...
I would give you an A for your summary.
So plenty of time to figure it out while I was waiting for my turn.
So there was a $5 a ton nonrecurring prior-period charge that won't be there everything else equal in the upcoming quarter okay? The thing is is that guide that true up is true yes.
Okay.
So that explains if you came out at $45.76 and you're looking for $60 that explains $5 of that was last quarter so you take that away.
So the real shortfall was only $10 and then $5 was your change in LIFO which is real which is real.
So then we still have $5 for you to tell us what happened.
Was that the almost 100 000 ton shortfall? We guided again in terms of shipments at the same conference call 3 months ago $1.5 million to $1.550 million.
As you know we came in only $1.497 million.
That's it in a nutshell but there's the production volume associated with that there is the lack of the margin on those shipments and then there is just what happened at the tail-end of the quarter to the lower prices.
And so you put all of that together that's worth about $5 or $6 as well.
Okay.
So this was nowhere near as big a miss as it appeared on the face of it not clear why you didn't put that information into the press release.
Maybe you like giving us a challenge because it's kind of fun to figure this stuff out but I think it might have been helpful if it had been in the press release.
And I wanted to make a big deal out of this because if you remember a 1 1/2 year ago it went in your favor and I beat you up real bad on that.
So anyways...
Appreciate it.
Look we're never happy about delivering expectations or results that are below expectations.
We believe as I think most public companies do that one should meet or exceed expectations.
And I think if one looks historically we've done that.
I'm also not in the business to give excuses but I think the clarity that you brought to the discussion is good and insightful and thank you.
Yes.
Well I also teach securities analysis.
So I give you an A for the ultimate explanation and an A- for not putting it in the press release.
Our next question comes from Dave Martin of Deutsche Bank.
Had a couple of follow-up question.
First on electrical steels.
So if you assume your volumes are up 20% this year where does that put your tonnage this year versus your capacity? I don't know that we've really stated our tonnage but let's just ballpark a number I don't know 250 260-ish.
And capacity is an interesting question in this sense David I would just offer that the capacity depends on a variety of factors not to be evasive but it depends a lot on what it is that customers want therefore what we're making.
It depends on where it's being shipped.
For example certain products don't necessarily transport well overseas.
And a lot depends on what continues to be an ever-evolving quality standard that's expected of international -- or by rather international customers and domestic customers increasingly as foreigners have made inroads onshore.
So we still have a fair amount of capacity from here.
Rather than sort of give a specific number I'll be kind of that general about it.
Okay that's fair.
And then Jim coming back your comments on cost and ion ore provisions in your contracts you noted that in some cases you have now the capability to capture higher iron ore costs both directly and indirectly.
I think the directly comment is self-explanatory I'm just curious on what you mean by indirectly? More precisely it would be in those instances where customers simply have an aversion to sharing in that risk in terms of the volatility that we've seen in the marketplace and therefore they agreed to a higher base price would be my definition.
It really is a matter of the end of the day David of making sure that we're there to serve our customers for the long run and that they understand that we have on their behalf and have been delighted to do so until this up up and away process has occurred with raw materials in recent years notwithstanding the global recession and the ongoing U.S.
recovery that we need to recover those higher costs.
And there's different ways that you can do that and each customer's arrangement's different.
We value their input immensely and we try and work with them to come up with an amenable solution for both parties.
But there has to be some method here to recover those costs or we'll simply price ourselves out of business which does nobody any good.
So the indirect is really more an opportunity then to just say the base price is higher.
Our next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> I just had a -- so a little bit more on the iron ore issue.
I know that the companies are trying to move to a more market-based quarterly pricing scenario.
Can you I guess explain how those discussions have gone and is there any chance of potential positives that could pop up in the second half or even next year? Because I think it would take you quite a while to establish any kind of self-sufficiency there.
Let me offer it this way sort of big picture.
Again right now we are purchasers of 100% of our iron ore pellets that's all we need that's all we can consume is pellets.
And candidly the producers of pellets have had their way with us and with others who are completely dependent upon them.
We've moved this year as I mentioned from this annual process which we didn't get settled in 2010 until October which didn't give us the opportunity to recover any of the higher costs or any meaningful costs to this quarterly mechanism.
Obviously we're still trying to explain it the best we can to all of you.
We think it's the right thing because it does allow us the ability to better match our costs with our revenues and recover those as we negotiate recover those higher costs as we negotiated them -- those deals rather with our customers.
What can change going forward? Well perhaps one of these days supply and demand will come more into balance.
Perhaps the veracious demand from China will decline somewhat for iron ore we'll see.
Any number of things I think would cause one to look at the long-term outlook for pellets and probably say that they're pretty high and they're likely to come down that's a good guy and so I suppose one day we'll have a conference call like this and discuss that we're going to have a LIFO credit.
I know it's unimaginable but that could actually happen.
In the meantime as I mentioned I don't mean to tease you with this we have been in dialogue with the parties around the globe about taking an equity interest in iron ore properties or iron ore substitute ventures.
I think we've made excellent progress along those lines both with respect to iron ore and coal.
But unfortunately we don't have an announcement to make today.
I think we will in the near-term which will again begin to balance the scales here rather than being 100% the spot market.
We don't want to be 100% ownership of our raw materials but there's probably a number or a percentage somewhere in the middle that we'll move towards and we'll get about that very quickly.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Couple of questions.
First thing when I think about your selling price for the third quarter kind of down 1% which is about $12 or so.
Obviously quite a bit better than what we're seeing in the carbon steel market.
And I sense that some of that's due to improved mix with more Specialty less Carbon and then some is due to the lagging contracts that you have.
Just trying to get a sense of how much -- what the bigger driver of that is.
And maybe a way to think about is if you look at just your Carbon business sequentially what sort of movement do you think we'd see in the selling price there? Luke there are obviously many moving pieces and parts here because we're really reducing our guidance or updating our guidance I guess or providing our guidance 1.4 million to 1.5 million.
Much of the tonnage that would have come out would be in the lower-end the lower-priced tonnage.
So that has the effect of maybe overshadowing what's really going on in the carbon market.
The carbon market's depressed.
We're seeing numbers here that I don't think many people can sell at and make a profit at and I think that argues for really an end to this madness hopefully pretty soon.
But clearly we're benefiting from a mix standpoint we're benefiting from increased automotive increased electrical volumes and pricing.
And that's sort of overshadowing what is a larger decline in the carbon spot market business.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just secondly on your Electrical Steel sales.
I mean when we look at third quarter expected results does that reflect any improvement in green-oriented electric steel base pricing? I understand you're probably not seeing that on the domestic business but at least on the export side? There's a little bit of that in there.
I wouldn't say it's a great deal but again our guidance takes into account all the things that we have said and that would include a little better outlook for green-oriented.
Our next question comes from Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Jim you have done a good job in doing a further in terms of lining up your sales contracts to the iron ore price changes.
Obviously the next big thing will be the coke and coal price increases which I think coke and coal global price remains at $300 a ton that will be a fair [ph] increase.
Are you in negotiation with your customers? And also how much of your coke and coal is multi-year contract which we may not see that kind of escalation if coke and coal prices were to remain at the global level where they are right now? Sal let me take it this way thank you for your question.
Coal is really the next big thing if you will and we have a similar dynamic at our company as we have with iron ore.
We see that coming at us and we're dealing with it proactively the best that we can.
I think we have commented earlier this year that we got our coal deals done early in the year well before the Australian floods which obviously impacted supply and drove prices to very very high levels.
The spot market for met coal as you know I don't know a $240 per ton I mean it's a big big number right now.
Certainly higher than what we paid this year and so we'll see where that goes.
As a result of that phenomena we are indeed in discussions as our contract agreements come up about including not only an iron ore mechanism but the mechanism to incorporate some sort of recovery with respect to metallurgical coal.
And as I said in the meantime we're also looking at not just putting all of this on the backs of our customers but investing to improve our lot in life so that we're not entirely dependent on the spot market.
But most of our contracts that we're negotiating now we're exposed to pricing next year in terms of the coal pricing.
We have some commitments for tonnage but virtually all of our pricing is open for negotiation for next year Sal.
Our final question comes from Richard Garchitorena of Crédit Suisse.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But one quick question.
Just looking at next year versus this year on the cost side mill time is obviously coming up.
Are you going to be ramped up in Q4 and into 2012 will that have any impact on costs going forward? And then also the shutdown of Ashland how does impact coke costs going forward as well? Richard first congratulations on your new role at Credit Suisse.
With respect to our costs as I said in my closing prepared remarks and I'll wrap up our Q&amp;A session with this we have a great company at AK Steel.
I think we do a terrific job of utilizing the assets that we have safely efficiently and serving customers we hope better than anybody else.
But our costs are simply too high.
We acknowledged that and that has been driven in recent years by a number of things mostly by skyrocketing input costs and that will moderate in the future and we'll take steps to deal with that.
Some of the other things that we're doing though as you mentioned we did sadly permanently idled the Ashland coke plant.
We did so largely for economic reasons and I think that the economic benefits will be substantial.
I'd prefer not to quantify them at this time but you have that going on you also have I think you meant the Butler #5 EAF the benefit of that coming on we'll have the Middletown SunCoke facility that will come on and that will obviously be beneficial to us.
And we'll continue to look at the best long-term configuration from a cost-effective standpoint for AK Steel.
We do have a continuous improvement mentality.
Our operators our purchasing people really every discipline that we have in the company is focused on lowering our costs.
We'd like to think that we do more with less in terms of headcount and efficiency but this is a never-ending challenge for anybody who's in the steel business and we understand that.
So we're not done we have a long way to go.
We think we have a very very bright future notwithstanding the bumps in the road that will inevitably occur in this type of an economic recovery.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Just a couple of comments as we sign off today.
I want to thank you all for joining us on the call and for your continuing interest in one of America's premier steelmakers AK Steel.
We very much look forward to having you join us again in about 3 months for our Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
In the meantime have a great day and have a wonderful summer.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
John F.
Kaloski Executive Vice President and Operating Officer; and Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone.
In a moment I'll review our third quarter 2011 financial results and following my remarks Jim will offer his comments and field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments products mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences and results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss for the third quarter of $3.5 million or a loss of $0.03 per share.
During the quarter we experienced challenging market conditions along with continued high cost for steelmaking raw materials.
Additionally our results include costs related to an incident with the #5 electric arc furnace or EAF at our Butler Works.
As previously reported the #5 EAF was damaged on July 1 when molten steel breached the furnace shell.
Our third quarter costs related to this incident totaled approximately $9.8 million.
After taxes this equates to roughly $6.2 million or $0.05 per share.
Essentially the cost incurred reflect the amount of our insurance deductible associated with the incident.
This is consistent with the guidance we provided during the second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Excluding the impact of the #5 EAF incidents AK Steel's results for the third quarter compare favorably to First Call consensus estimates.
Shipments for the third quarter of 2011 totaled 1 368 800 tons which was lower than our guidance as business conditions during the quarter proved to be more challenging than anticipated.
Our average selling price was $1 158 per ton a decrease of approximately 2% compared to the second quarter and slightly lower than we had forecasted.
Revenues totaled $1 586 000 000 a decrease of about 12% compared to the prior quarter.
Sales outside the U.S.
continue to be an important source of revenue for us and totaled approximately $244 million for the third quarter.
During the third quarter high raw material cost continued to pressure our financial results.
However these high costs were largely in line with our guidance.
Our outlook for determining our 2011 LIFO charge has changed due principally to our expectation of reduced inventory levels at year end.
This is primarily a function of lower than expected shipments and productions.
As a result we benefited from a LIFO credit of $9.5 million in the third quarter of 2011.
However we expect to incur a LIFO charge in the fourth quarter.
I would also note that due to a weakening of the euro our third quarter results were negatively impacted by foreign exchange loss of approximately $3.7 million.
On an operating basis excluding the impact of the furnace incident at Butler Works we recorded an adjusted operating profit of $21.2 million or $15 per ton for the third quarter of 2011.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the third quarter of 2011 capital investments totaled $21.7 million.
Working capital was a source of $29.7 million in cash during the quarter.
We continue to be focused on managing working capital and anticipate that working capital will be a significantly larger source of cash in the fourth quarter.
During the third quarter we made $32 million in payments related to the Butler Works retiree VEBA as part of our previously announced settlement agreement with a group of retirees from our Butler Works.
We will make additional payments to the Butler VEBA of $32 million in 2012 and $28 million in 2013.
For the first 9 months of 2011 our payments related to Butler and Middletown VEBAs totaled $97 million.
In addition we made $170 million in contributions to our pension plans.
We have now completed all of our required pension and VEBA funding for 2011.
On October 4 AK Steel announced the acquisition of Iron Ore and Metallurgical Coal Interests as part of our strategic initiative to further vertically integrate the company.
Jim will review details of these acquisitions at his remarks.
However I do want you to note we completed the initial capital investments for these acquisitions totaling $124 million early in the fourth quarter.
We do not anticipate additional capital expenditures in 2011 related to either of the acquisitions.
Also I'd point out that we expect to have borrowings against our revolving credit facility at the end of 2011.
Now let's take a brief look at our results for the first 9 months of 2011.
Revenues were nearly $5 billion compared to $4.6 billion for the first 9 months of 2010.
Sales outside the U.S.
totaled $735 million or about 15% of our total revenues.
Shipments were $4.3 million about the same level as the first 9 months of 2010 and our average selling price was $1 151 per ton more than 8% higher for the same period a year ago.
At the bottom line we reported net income of $38.3 million for the first 9 months of 2011 or $0.35 per diluted share.
Our 2011 year-to-date net income was negatively impacted by several items totaling approximately $10 million after-tax or roughly $0.09 per share.
They included costs related to the furnace incident at Butler Works that I previously mentioned changes to state tax laws and onetime costs associated with the previously announced shutdown of our Ashland Works coke plant.
Now let me offer some comments about the fourth quarter.
Due to the current challenging market environment as well as the lack of clarity for future market conditions we will not provide our normal guidance for the fourth quarter at this time.
However we fully expect to provide insight later in the quarter likely in December as quarterly business conditions become clear.
Finally given the low interest-rate environment and challenging investment markets we have the potential to incur a corridor charge in the fourth quarter related to our unique pension and OPEB benefit accounting methodology.
Should such a corridor charge occur let me emphasize that it would be a non-cash charge.
Now for his comments I'll turn it over to Jim.
Thank you very much Al.
Good morning everyone.
Let me take a few minutes to comment on our third quarter of 2011 results and our outlook before entertaining your questions.
I'm pleased to report that despite the continuing challenges of a sputtering economy AK Steel posted an operating profit for the third quarter of 2011 and were it not for the onetime costs associated with the repairs to one of our EAFs we would have posted a net profit for the third quarter as well.
Shipments and selling prices as Al described were below our own expectations as customers concerned about the direction of the economy ordered less steel and market pricing declined.
But consistent with our expectations we experienced very high raw material cost in the third quarter and while the IODEX index which is indicative of the spot market price for iron ore has recently declined in fact declined quite a bit it is important to recognize that there is a lagging effect of such a price changes.
For example the price we paid for iron ore in the third quarter of 2011 was set during the 3 months ended May 31 2011 and the price that we'll pay for the fourth quarter of this year was set during the 3 months ended August 31 2011.
The quantity of raw materials that we've purchased and our steel production volumes were in anticipation of our expected higher shipment levels.
Accordingly as was the case in the second quarter we consumed cash for inventory purposes in Q3.
Looking at the fourth quarter we expect to generate a significant amount of cash working capital as we dialed out our production and inventories to recognize lower levels of demand.
More on the fourth quarter in a moment but first let me take a minute or 2 to comment on the fundamentals of our business at AK Steel namely safety quality and productivity and how we are performing in each of these areas.
At AK Steel we continue to make the safety of our employees our company's highest priority.
Compared to the latest available steel industry statistics AK Steel's safety performance as measured by the frequency of OSHA recordable injuries was on average about 6x better than that of our peers taking care of our employees and sending them home safely to their families each and every day will remain our company's highest priority.
On the quality front for the third quarter we continued to perform very well in service to our customers.
In fact 5 of our 7 steel plants are in pace for best ever quality performances this year.
And our third quarter report card is in from our customers.
I'm delighted to report that AK Steel took top honors in the latest Jacobson Surveys for both carbon and specialty steel products.
The results of these surveys indicated that both our carbon steel and specialty steel customers ranked AK Steel #1 in product quality and customer service and #1 in overall satisfaction.
In addition our carbon steel customers also ranked us #1 in on-time delivery.
We love happy customers.
Our mission is to serve customers better than any other steelmaker and we'll continue to work hard to keep it that way.
In terms of productivity when they were called upon to do so our units ran pretty well.
However unfortunately on average we only had sufficient orders to operate at about 80% of our production capacity for the third quarter.
That compares to about an 87% operating rate for the second quarter.
I'm pleased to report that after a 3-month repair period the new Butler Works #5 electric arc furnace restarted operations on October 10.
This key operating unit for our company which is replacing 3 older less efficient EAFs will ramp up its productivity during the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect it to hit its stride in the year 2012.
Improving our self-sufficiency and lowering our low material energy costs are key focus areas for AK Steel.
The #5 EAF fits that description as do our 2 recent strategic raw material investments.
Following years of searching for the right assets on October 4 we announced 2 important raw material investments that will go a long way towards addressing our raw materials short position.
Our acquisition of 100% of Solar Fuel Company Inc.
which was subsequently renamed AK Coal Resources Inc.
and our acquisition of 49.9% of Magnetation LLC set into motion plans to become more self-sufficient and reduce our future coal and iron ore costs.
Let me take a moment or 2 to provide an update to you on each of these deals.
Regarding AK Coal we have already hired an experienced operations manager to coordinate our activities there.
His immediate roles are to develop the mine plant and initiate the permitting process.
We expect to be mining lowball coal either for our own consumption or for merchant sailor trade by the year 2014.
As soon as reasonably possible we plan to ramp up our production to at least 1 million tons annually and if market conditions are favorable we may choose to produce as much as 2 million tons per year.
In the interim we will receive some royalty payments from existing producers but we do not expect this to represent a material amount of money.
The major benefit of this project will be realized when the coal mining operations begin.
We expect to mine low-cost high-quality lowball coal.
Upon the completion of the AK Coal production ramp up we expect to be approximately 50% percent self-sufficient in terms of our metallurgical coal requirements that is we expect to be able to produce coal either for our own consumption or to sell as a hedge equal to about 50% of our met coal volume requirements.
Unlike AK Coal Magnetation LLC is already producing iron ore concentrate.
The refining process is a proprietary one and the necessary permits are already in place.
It's generating solid EBITDA and beginning in 2012 we will receive about ½ of that EBITDA.
The Magnetation JV is currently operating a single plant and they're in the process of constructing a second plant that's expected to begin operating in Q2 of 2012.
Accordingly about ½ of the financial benefit associated with selling the product produced from those facilities will inure to AK Steel.
Of course the actual amount of that benefit will depend on the selling price of the product which is tied to the IODEX and the JVs production cost as well.
We're confident that the Magnetation process is very low cost highly efficient and very environmentally friendly.
Longer-term however is when the larger benefit of our investment in Magnetation LLC kicks in.
In addition to aggressive growth plans for the iron ore reclamation activities the venture expects to construct a pellet plant that is intended to be operational in the year 2016.
Upon completion of the pellet plant AK Steel expects to consume approximately 3.3 million net tons of the pellets produced by Magnetation for use at our blast furnaces.
Accordingly we expect to be slightly more than 50% self-sufficient in terms of our iron ore pellet requirements at that time.
During our conference call on October 5 to discuss our strategic investments there were a number of questions raised regarding the capital cost of the pellet plant.
It may not be widely understood that the process for converting tailings into pellets involves a much lower capital cost than a traditional iron ore mining operation pelletizing plant and supporting equipment.
In short the Magnetation process does not require as much processing or crushing of the raw material to produce a pallet as does the traditional pellet plant configuration and as a result we anticipate that the cost to construct the pelletizing plant with annual production capacity of about 3.3 million net tons will be about $300 million directly funded by AK Steel and Magnetation Inc.
Ultimately AK Steel will receive about 50% of its iron ore pellets our needs that is at a cost substantially below market price and will enjoy nearly 50% of the earnings of Magnetation LLC and all of this will be accomplished with an affordable investment price tag as well.
One last point I believe that's worth emphasizing on these investments whether AK Steel consumes the products directly to lower its production costs or whether we sell these products on the open market to hedge our raw materials exposure we are much better off at about 50% self-sufficiency than at 0% or over the long run even at 100%.
That's because since 2003 AK Steel's annual raw material costs have increased by more than $2 billion.
Of course we cannot predict whether raw material prices peaked however these are long-term strategic investments and if future raw material prices do rise further we will be 50% hedged for both coal and iron ore.
And on the other hand if future raw material prices fall we will enjoy the benefit of that decline with our remaining 50% short position as we continue to make money on our new strategic investments thanks to their relatively low cost of production.
Now let me switch gears and comment briefly on what we're observing in our chosen markets.
Let me start with the positives.
Automotive Electrical Steel and Specialty Stainless Products.
The automotive market continues to show encouraging signs of recovery.
September's seasonally adjusted annualized sales rate for light vehicles was 13 million units and while that's equal to only about 70% of the annual automotive sales peak it's a big step in the right direction.
And in terms of production the current NAFTA production forecast for 2011 is some $12.9 million light vehicles compared to 11.9 million units in 2010 and 8.6 million units in 2009.
So things are better in automotive.
In addition light vehicle inventories are presently at 52 days supply for domestically produced units which is slightly below historical inventory levels.
I guess most of you know we serve a automotive market with high-quality carbon steels and 400 series stainless exhaust steels as well as our Bright Anneal specialty stainless steels for automotive trim.
The electrical steel market has also been a bright spot for our company in 2011 although our third quarter grain-oriented electrical steel shipments declined slightly compared to our second quarter shipments.
It's been a year of recovery and growth in terms of electrical steels.
Compared to 2010 our 2011 GOES sales volumes that's GOES for short have increased by more than 20%.
Demand remains especially high for our high-efficiency TRAN-COR H or initials at TCH grades.
In the third quarter our NAFTA GOES shipments rose by  double-digit percentage as the replacement market saw a rise in demand due to a record hot summer and an active hurricane season.
Export GOES shipments decreased by double-digit percentage as supply returned.
Instability took hold of the European economy and the U.S.
dollar strengthened.
So overall we experienced a slight decline in electrical shipments quarter-over-quarter.
Looking ahead we expect a further decline in our fourth quarter GOES shipments as customers are reporting higher than desired inventory levels at the present time.
Despite overall global softening however there continues to be solid demand for AK Steel's high-efficiency high-end TCH products.
And ultimately to experience a significant further growth in electrical steel shipments we'll need to see improved housing starts.
At present the consensus estimate is for 590 000 units in 2011 compared to 587 000 in 2010 and 554 000 in 2009.
Just to put these numbers into proper perspective during the period 1959 to the year 2007 housing starts never went below 1 million units in any single year.
Now we've had 4 consecutive years of less than 1 million.
And although 2012 is forecast at some 670 000 units there's still a long long way to go on the housing front.
Our Coshocton Specialty Stainless Steel products are also doing well in addition to automotive applications.
They're also used in a variety of appliance applications such as front-loading washers and dryers.
We expect demand from appliance makers to remain relatively strong in the fourth quarter for specialty stainless products as a sales of these types of units continue to do well.
Now let me comment on the areas of weakness specifically commodity carbon and stainless steel products although AK Steel does not consider itself to be a major player in the commodity carbon and stainless businesses we do participate in them to some extent and that's expected to negatively impact our fourth quarter results.
Both carbon steel and stainless steel service center inventories have increased.
In fact carbon flat-rolled inventories increased to 5.2 million tons in September of 2011 compared to the low point of the recession which was 2.7 million tons in August of 2009.
Similarly stainless steel service center inventories were at 401 000 tons in September of 2011 compared to the low point of the recession of 281 000 tons in June of 2009.
And whether it's carbon or stainless steel service center buyers remain very cautious in their buying approach uncertain as to the bottom in pricing and they certainly don't want to be holding the bag that is high-priced inventory again.
So what that means is that the steel service centers are reluctant to place large orders at this time they're purchasing only to meet their immediate needs.
As Al indicated we are not providing specific fourth quarter guidance at this time.
In fact we're changing our company practice from one of guidance at the begin of the quarter to one of guidance later in the quarter.
We're doing this because of a couple of things.
One the lack of near-term visibility in our served markets especially in the spot market for carbon and stainless steel products.
And the second reason is the increased volatility associated with the drivers of our results namely shipments selling prices and costs.
Accordingly it's our intention to provide more specific guidance in this particular quarter's case in December when we expect to have a better sense of how each of these key variables plays out this quarter.
Having said that we realize that it is important for us to provide you with some sense of what we expect for the fourth quarter at least from a directional standpoint.
At this point we expect to generate an operating loss for the fourth quarter.
The reasons for this are twofold we anticipate lower average spot market selling prices and we expect higher operating costs.
As we run our facilities at lower operating rates and as we incur a LIFO charge in 4Q instead of a LIFO credit as was the case in 3Q.
Looking beyond the fourth quarter of 2011 we are optimistic for a variety of reasons.
Not the least of which is some recent history.
In each of the past 2 years we witnessed carbon spot market selling prices bottom out in the fourth quarter of the year and rise throughout the first half of the following year.
Of course no one can say whether history will repeat itself but I think it's fair to say that eventually market prices must align with the very high level of raw material cost that all steel makers have experienced to one extent or another.
There are a number of other things that cause us to be more optimistic when it comes to 2012 including the continuation of the slow but gradual economic recovery in the United States.
Continued improvement in overall automotive demand and specific automotive sales gains by AK Steel which are displacing some of these carbon spot market sales that I referred to.
A full year of benefits derived from our sales contracts containing variable pricing agreements a bounce off the bottom in terms of spot market selling prices.
Our JV with Magnetation Inc.
should add meaningfully to our 2012 performance.
We also expect to enjoy the full-year benefit of lower costs and increased productivity and production flexibility from our new #5 EAF.
The ramp up of the SunCoke's Middletown heat recovery coke battery which benefits us from both a coke and an energy standpoint and lastly just the ongoing benefits with our continuous improvement philosophy as we expect to enjoy better quality productivity and yield gains in our operations.
And in the meantime we're controlling those things over which we have control and we're taking steps to lower our costs and improve our self-sufficiency for the long run.
These are steps in the right direction as we continue to await a real and sustained economic recovery in the U.S.
Manufacturing can play a huge part in that recovery.
It can be a significant part of how we get out of the current economic doldrums but I would offer that that can only happen if we embrace manufacturing and an environment for business and that includes things such as less regulation lower taxes and incentives for investing hiring and innovating a real energy policy the enforcement of trade policy including currency manipulation and an infrastructure improvement plan.
Absent these sorts of initiatives it looks and feels as though 2012 will resemble 2011 with some improvement but with the continuation of this long slow economic recovery process.
Today in America nearly twice as many people work in government that is about 22.5 million than in all of manufacturing little more than 11 million.
That's almost exactly the opposite of the situation from 50 years ago when in 1960 there were some 15 million workers in manufacturing and about 8.5 million workers collecting a paycheck from the government.
Today every state in America except 2 my home state of Indiana and Wisconsin has more government workers on the payroll than people manufacturing industrial goods.
Ladies and gentlemen we need to make things in America.
And in order to do that we need to make manufacturing and pro-manufacturing policies a priority for our country.
So in both the private and the public sectors we need to get busy we need to work together to make things in America to make our country great again.
It can be done and it must be done.
We'll do our part at AK Steel.
Thank you all very much.
With that now let's open the phone lines up for your questions.
.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Brett Levy of Jefferies and Co.
You guys have worked hard over the years to structure labor agreements that give you some ability and some flexibility.
Could you talk as you go into 2012 about the potential of maybe consolidating work into one plant and now that you're running at 80% across the whole group of your plants or the possibility of perhaps getting some flexibility on some of your pension and OPEB payments in 2012 or '13 knowing that these guys now probably understand that everyone has to cooperate in tough times.
Just talk about some of the things you do you if this period lasts a little bit longer.
Brett we're very comfortable with labor deals that we've negotiated.
We think they're among the best in the steel business and one of the reasons we say that is they do give us tremendous flexibility in operating.
We have been and will continue to look at where we should make product and where layoffs may be involved that sort of thing.
I would say that our labor unions our labor leaders our employees understand the challenging economic environment they're working with us in this regard.
We don't have plans to idle anything for an extended period of time but we will adjust as we go.
As I said in my prepared remarks we've gotten a little bit ahead of ourselves the last couple of quarters in terms of producing more material and buying more raw materials in anticipation of higher sales all of that is getting adjusted this quarter and that obviously would have an effect on our operating rates.
We haven't guided per se but we are as we were 80% last quarter we're probably going to be high 60s to low 70s this quarter.
And we have the flexibility with our labor agreements to do that.
With respect to other things that we might do we really haven't entertained any thoughts at this point as far as seeking any relief in terms of pensions or healthcare or things of that sort.
I think that's well down the road.
But I would tell you this that we've been through as a management team and as a company many downturns I'm not sure if this is technically a double-dip or just a continuation of a challenging economic environment our team is up for it what we know what to do and where we're reacting appropriately.
And what are the 2012 pension OPEB and sort of rough numbers CapEx numbers as you see them right now so that's -- it's 3 numbers of rough numbers for 2012 for you guys? Brett on the pension side we expect our pension contributions next year to be about $170 million which would frankly be essentially what we paid this year.
Our healthcare expenditures for our retirees will probably be about $75 million again pretty much flat year-over-year.
We really haven't talked too too much about capital spending going out to next year.
But I think that it would be fair to say -- it probably be fairly consistent with this year's spending.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got a couple.
I'm sorry I was just -- somebody stuck their head in my office and you mentioned about the -- for 2012 on the mandatory contribution of the pension and I missed that I'm sorry.
It's $170 million Tony.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then also I was wondering Jim you went into talking about the operating cost a little bit and you talked about capital cost for the iron concentrate from tailings to pellet I was wondering could you give us an idea about what that kind of cash operating cost might look like? Tony I'll just say this and I mentioned this when we did our call I think it was back on October 5 we've signed a confidentiality agreement with our friends at Magnetation which really prohibits us from getting into great detail there.
I would just say that we think it's going to be a very very competitive cost of production and ultimately when it gets into the palletizing process a very competitively cost to dev pellet as well.
Almost under any scenario I think everyone certainly looks out to the future.
We've seen a dip here recently in iron ore pricing at least of the IODEX going from 171 180 down to the 140 150 range.
I think most times recently when that's happened you've seen a sharp spike back up and really what's driven that historically is the price of Chinese hot-rolled and the demand.
And the infrastructure spending and building that's going on in China may take a pause here but it's going to continue.
So as long as we see that whether it's 150 or 200 or 100-something we're in great shape relative to our cost we believe on the Magnetation venture.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and just a quick follow-up if I may.
It seems like there's a lot of -- there seems to be a fair amount of movement towards more of a transactional price methodology in terms of iron ore now.
And perhaps moving away somewhat from a quarterly pricing mechanism what are your general thoughts on that at this point in time? For decades we lived with the annual pricing.
In the last year or so it moved to the quarterly approach.
We're just kind of getting used to that.
Although that has its inherent mismatches as well as just I spoke of in my prepared remarks where for the third quarter it reflected what was March April and May's average numbers.
Look at the end of the day I suppose the producers of the product are going to look at what they think best serves them whether it's a quarterly or monthly or a daily event we'll see what happens.
We're a bit of a tail wagging the dog in this regard.
We want to make sure that our revenues exceed our costs.
So if there's a better way to match our cost of this case we're open to discussion on that subject.
We can debate all day long whether it should be a quarterly or monthly or annually but I think the good work that we've done here in terms of getting into our variable pricing agreements with our customers raw materials surcharges including iron ore is excellent.
And the fact that we are on a path to be 50% self-sufficient in terms of raw materials that's going to determine most of our direction.
And then we'll see what happens to the market based on a variety of factors and I think right now because of the situation there is discussion about a monthly pricing mechanism.
Your guess is as good as mine as to whether or not that takes hold.
Our next question comes from Shneur Gershuni of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just sort of with respect to the pension discussion.
You talked about $170 million for next year and so forth.
In the case of the corridor charge of this year and/or a hypothetical hit to the pension plan from a cash basis any impact that you take from a corridor charge of this year or in the fourth quarter does not hit until 2013? Or can that $170 million change for 2012? No the 2012 is essentially locked in.
The corridor charge is essentially an accounting entry based upon our unique method of accounting for pension and OPEB.
It doesn't affect your cash funding directly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So any hypothetical hits might have an impact on '13 but not on '12? Well actuarial changes would potentially have an effect on '13 but that would be reflected in your funding not in the idea of the corridor charge which would occur in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
My second question is just with respect to input costs.
We clearly been seeing iron ore prices falling as well as met coal prices falling.
You're entering the part of the year when you usually start to negotiate for the following year I was wondering if you sort of gives some color on your philosophy with respect to met contracting there was a move to quarterly pricing over the last year is that something that you're thinking about especially with the rapid dip fall in met prices that we've seen over the last couple of weeks? I think our timing is good and we're in the midst of those discussions and we probably shouldn't go into a whole lot of detail here on the call except to say that we're hopeful of getting very good deals.
I think historically again those have been annual deals there isn't anything that we've heard that would cause us to think that they’re going to be other than that.
The annual deals again have served us well.
We've also been in a lot of discussions and negotiations with our customers with respect to a coal a surcharge of sorts as part of variable pricing agreement or absent that higher fixed prices to cover what are likely to be increased coal prices next year.
So again that market just like the iron ore discussion we just had I think we'll continue to evolve importantly we're going to cover those costs if they rise through our agreements with customers and position ourselves well for the long run to be about 50% self-sufficient.
Our next question is from Kuni Chen of CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess I want to run through the directional thought process here on the fourth quarter.
Is it really I get to the LIFO swing that's one piece of it and I guess the other piece is just pricing and utilization cost up to be about the same is that fair? Well again we've kind of said what we're going to say about it.
I would just offer that our whole thought process here in terms of the guidance just to sort of hit that briefly we have been in this uncertain economic climate for a while.
We've attempted the best we can to give guidance with precision that is increasingly difficult to give obviously.
And in particular I would say Kuni that there is really a lack of what I'll call near-term visibility as it relates to the carbon spot market and the commodity stainless spot market both in terms of volumes and in terms of pricing.
So when you have this combination of uncertain demand coupled with highly volatile pricing and again we talk about highly volatile pricing we've seen hot-rolled band for example this year approach of $900 a ton only to see it lick at the heels of $600 a ton.
That's called volatility and that makes it incredibly difficult if you're running a steel company or trying to provide guidance to do so accurately and with conviction.
So we've backed away from that too a bit.
And so beyond that is we sort of adjust our shipment expectations and pricing expectations and our inventory expectations and get things back in sync as we need them to be.
We're going to adjust our operations and all of that will work its way through we think over next couple of months but we still have significant amount of the steel to place both in the carbon and stainless steel spot markets and prices are -- they've been moving against us of late.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And just a quick follow on electrical steel.
You talked about some sequential weakening now as far as the fourth quarter goes and the additional sequential weakening can you kind of break out your commentary well export versus NAFTA? Yes let me give you just a little color Kuni everyone on electrical steel.
Again it's a -- overall a bright spot year-over-year we still expect it to be up in terms of shipment volume more than 20% higher in 2011 compared to 2010.
We were down a little bit net-net third quarter compared to second although NAFTA was up international was down.
And really what you have going on NAFTA-wise was the combination of this very high if not record hot summer and hurricane season that brought about the need for transformer replacement business as distinguished from new transformer business which is still going to be a function of a residential and nonresidential construction markets both of which are very weak as you know.
And so staying with NAFTA we're continuing to expect somewhat lower fourth quarter shipments with a hurricane season largely behind us and no inventory builds in sight.
Internationally it's really been a function now for the last couple of quarters of a very unstable European economy the European debt concerns a strengthening dollar weakening euro situation all of which have  contributed to softened demand.
And I would also add that supply that was either off-line or perceived to be off-line primarily from Japan after their tsunami and earthquake actually vice-versa there has really come back online and most of our grain-oriented electrical steel customers are reporting on top of that that they have sufficient inventory.
So the good news for us is growth overall but a little bit tougher environment in Q3 and again in Q4.
The bright spot if there is one and we think it is a bright spot is you really want to be towards the very high end of that market and in particular you want to be a TRAN-COR H the TCH products that we provide that continues to do pretty well.
So volumes and pricing both under pressure in that market as well.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just have a question first on your LIFO income that you took in the quarter if I look at the first 9 months of the year I see about $54 million in LIFO charges is it fair to assume that if I take the quarterly run rate of that you're something like an $18 million charge in the fourth quarter? Luke if again 54 represents our expectation at the end of the third quarter of what our full year LIFO charge would be which is exactly right 72 but we would never say for example that that's what it's going to be about of the year.
Clearly a lot of factors can affect that between now and the end of the year just as it did between June 30 and September 30.
But you're exactly right that if you run the analysis out on that basis the $9 million charge would be an $18 million or excuse me $9 million credit would become an $18 million charge in the fourth quarter but so many factors can affect that inventory levels pricing a whole number of factors.
So again we believe we are going to have a LIFO charge in the fourth quarter but we would not at this point in time quantify that any further than what we've already done.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I'm just trying to understand why -- if $72 million was your full-year expectation why not take why would you have incurred $8 million charge per quarter in 3Q and 4Q instead of almost a $10 million income the third quarter and then a much bigger expense in the fourth quarter? That's a very good question.
The thing is as LIFO goes the charge that's trued up each quarter.
If you remember when in the first quarter we look at our expectation for the entire year and take one quarter of that amount in the first quarter and then in the second quarter we do exactly the same thing in terms of looking at your expectation for the full year and you take ½ of your charge and then you credit against that what you've taken in the first quarter.
Unfortunately in this particular instance what we had accrued through 6 months was actually less than the expectation of ¾ of the charge at the end of the third quarter and consequently that gave rise to a credit but at the same time that gives rise because you're taking a credit you're chewing up those 3 quarters through 9 months.
That necessarily means you going to have a charge in the fourth quarter.
Luke what you're asking makes absolute logical sense but it's just not done that way for accounting purposes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I see what you're saying.
I understand.
The other question I had was the investment you made in iron ore and met coal I'm just curious to know what the response has been from customers on that and how -- and do you think that this has some impact on the how we think about your long-term market share with them? I think most of our constituents including our customers are delighted to see that were no longer 100% exposed to the spot market.
I think they view this as a long-term positive.
A number of people had called it whether it was our Achilles' heel or shortcoming or whatever it might have been it was certainly the elephant in the room for us for obvious reasons.
I mentioned our input cost gone up $2 billion a year.
That's a big nut for us to cover and we obviously sought some relief for our customers.
We also remind our customers that we will not have the production from these assets for some years out and even then it's only going to be perhaps 50% of our needs.
So we continue to have a great ongoing communication dialogue on this subject with them but I'd say overall they embrace it.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of J.P.
Morgan.
Research Division</strong> So did I hear you right in terms of the guidance going forward for the upcoming quarters you're permanently changing that policy to give now interim quarter guidance? No that was not the word I used in my prepared remarks or subsequently.
I think it's a recognition of the current environment in which we're operating the amount of uncertainty in this economic climate.
So this is the kind of thing that we'll continue to evaluate as a management team and a board.
And when we have a bit more clarity and visibility on the forward look we'll hopefully revert back to our more traditional guidance Mike.
Research Division</strong> And on the grain-oriented electrical steel market I'm assuming that since you saw the exports export opportunities outside of NAFTA decrease this past quarter the third quarter that you really didn't see any positive impact on grain-oriented electrical steel demand from the reconstruction efforts in Japan? Not meaningfully is how I would answer that Mike.
I think that there are some opportunities.
There are those closer to the region who would largely capitalize on that just from a transportation standpoint.
We participated to some extent but not enough.
We continue to look globally on the one great opportunity that remains out there for us.
Although we have not had feedback just yet.
We hope to get some feedback I think the new date that we've heard is maybe May of 2012 is on the WTO appeal on the China trade case.
China is a market that we are for all intents and purposes zoned out of now.
It is a very meaningful market opportunity and we hope to get positive news again within the next 6 months or so but I'm not going to predict that.
But that's where the real opportunity is and we'll continue to look globally.
Just a bit of a background again we do a little more than half of our business internationally call it 55% 45% NAFTA.
And we've grown that internationally and we continue our sales force continues to early scour the planet for the best opportunities what makes good sense.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify it was really helpful Jim when you told us about the iron ore timing.
So if we do see prices staying at these recent low levels below 140 for IODEX let's say it were to continue for the next couple of months can you help us understand when that might show up in your costs? Timna great question if you just think about the fact that this next pricing period is including September October November so at the end of November that will take effect then for the first quarter.
January 1.
January 1 of 2012.
So we should begin to experience those benefits to the extent it stays down as you said starting with the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify the change in LIFO it's kind of like it was more from an inventory and destocking I guess issue than anticipating this iron ore price move? Is that fair? Or both? Al can speak to this better than I but let me try it from a sort of a high level here and that is a couple of things really drive that calculation.
One is the amount of inventory and the other is the value of that inventory.
And I think it's largely driven by the -- to some extent the value but mostly the amount.
We simply are getting in line with what we see in the markets both currently and prospectively and making sure that we have sufficient inventory on hand to meet our production requirements and our customers' needs but no more.
We got a little bit out of whack as you've seen the last 2 quarters.
Our guidance has been maybe a bit optimistic with respect to shipments.
We did not hit those levels and while that's disappointing the larger effect is it consumes cash and we're again getting our inventories in line and that tends to drive the LIFO calculation.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Could you talk a little bit about your price negotiations with your automobile customers? I know we're not going to get into specifics but it sounds almost like a couple of your customers are trying to talk down the market for 2012 to maybe influence the pricing.
Have you completed the negotiations? And would you call it satisfactory or how would you describe what happened? Well Chuck we're in the midst of most of those.
A lot of our deals are up on the first of the year many of them expire throughout the balance of the year.
Really it's a staggered expiration process.
So unlike the way it used to be where everything was a January 1 it's certainly not that way anymore it's the first point I would make.
Second point I would make is there's never been a negotiation that we are at I suppose anybody has gone into where we haven't wanted higher prices and they've wanted lower.
That's the nature of the dance that's the nature of the beast.
It's part of the overall relationship.
I think what we've tried to do is educate our customers on what it is that we're doing for them.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks I think we're doing a pretty good job and the surveys would support this in terms of quality delivery and service they're getting great value.
You know as Warren Buffett says right price is what you pay value is what you get.
I think they're getting great value.
And beyond that we're also educating them in terms of our higher costs.
Those are key components of the discussion.
Certainly when we get on platforms or when we're lining up with our automotive customers and other contract customers it's not just about price although price is certainly an important component it's about long-term relationship long-term values.
That's who we are that's what we bring to the party.
For some and hopefully for most that really rings a good tune with them a good note for others.
If they're purely price buyers then perhaps we're not the greatest of fit in the world but this is not spot market business this is long-term contract business based on relationships.
They know us we know them.
We're working through it.
I think overall we expect to make good progress this year among other things on the BPMs and again continuing to expand our margins.
What we see at least all the forecast that we see is for a better year not necessarily a robust year but a continuation on over the next 3 or 4 years where we get back to that 16 million-unit to 17 million-unit level a year.
And we want to grow with the people that are growing in this country and there is a number of them.
We've got great relationships with them and we'll keep on that path.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor of Longbow Research.
Maybe I would ask 3 questions just quickly.
Number 1 Jim could you update us on your negotiations to include raw material pass-through provisions in your contracts what percentage of your tonnage would have with this for 2012? Number 2 on the working capital could you give us a sense of what you do hope to achieve by the end of the year and what that would reflect in terms of the balance outstanding in your revolver? And number 3 may be a slightly bigger picture question but it's pretty clear that there's a lot of furnaces going off-line in Europe but we haven't really seen any of that going on in North America to speak of yet at least.
And what do you think it takes to get the North American community to start taking some capacity off-line and start working towards mixed end lead times? David on the first one we will not a do a deal that doesn't incorporate raw material surcharges period on the contract deal.
We have it and we're not going to that just simply needs to be incorporated for obvious reasons.
Now to the question of what percentage of our overall business again today were at 55% moving to 60% contract business.
And so when you look at the specialty side of our business they've all got pass-throughs of one sort or another and the carbon were still working on that.
So a significant portion virtually all of the contracts are going to have one form or the other of a BPM associated with it just has to be that way.
I'll bypass the working capital cash and toss it over to Al here in a moment and then maybe comment on liquidity and so forth.
And the blast furnaces or electric arc furnaces again it's an individual company decision in our case is we simply look at the order intake rate we look the inventories we have and we adjust production accordingly.
We obviously brought #5 EAF online in anticipation of a better steel market so it's not going to be running at its full capacity so we're not going to be enjoying all of the benefits of lower cost and so forth of a that furnace just yet.
So we're pacing it we're pacing our 2 blast furnaces the extent we can as we know we have the ability to add materials and increase productivity there.
We're not doing that at the present time but it's very difficult to sort of flip a switch and turn a blast furnace on or off.
So they're both running at lower levels of production and we think they'll continue do so for a while.
Working capital...
Working capital David as you know we finished the quarter with $295 million drawn on our credit facility.
Since that time of course we made a $124 million acquisition for Magnetation and AK Coal Resources.
But we expect to bring our working capital down pretty substantially from -- we had consumed about $200 million through 9 months we expect to bring that down pretty significantly.
And so we would expect while we -- to have that $295 million number drawn down somewhat or reduced somewhat between now and year end but it won't go away completely.
But despite that we expect to have very adequate liquidity.
We ended the quarter with over $600 million of liquidity on September 30 and we would expect to be very probably very near the number at the end of the year as well.
The bottom line is we have a working capital facility.
We've utilized it for working capital purposes.
We've also used it at least in the short run to finance longer-term projects.
I think it's fair to say that long-term projects typically use some other form of longer-term financing and so again as I've indicated previously subject to needs and market conditions and board approval we'd consider accessing capital markets to fund all or a portion of those recent investments but the bottom line is this we want to leave with and that is we are confident that our liquidity is sufficient to support the needs of the business on an ongoing basis.
Period.
Our final question comes from Sam Dubinsky of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First how should we think about operating expenses going forward given some of the recent acquisitions in potentially the low revenue rate? And I have a follow-up.
In terms of operating expenses...
LLC Research Division</strong> Against G&amp;A.
As G&amp;A Sam we expect that to be readily flat quarter-over-quarter.
I think we've done a good job through the years of managing that.
I should point out of course that our SG&amp;A expenses to include our SunCoke consolidation which is separated out.
But I guess that we expect that to be flat quarter-over-quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay could you also comment on the -- I know you mentioned electrical steel softened but I'm not sure if I heard magnitude of pricing between you and that business.
How is electrical steel pricing been in recent months? Can you just give us some order of magnitude of the softness? I think it's fair to say that with the increased supply and a little bit lower demand that the pricing environment is under pressure right now for reasons that we discussed.
Again it's a better place to be in the higher end of that market.
We make a very good product and that's helping us to some extent but undoubtedly there has been pressure really in virtually all of the markets in stainless including electrical steel.
LLC Research Division</strong> But is it safe to assume that the magnitude is much less than the carbon business? Well one would have to sort of give some parameters to that.
But the carbon business has been under enormous stress here of late.
So I think yes that's probably a fair statement.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Once again ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for taking time to join us on AK Steel's Third Quarter Conference Call.
As we sign off on this our final call for the year 2011 let me take this opportunity on behalf of our management team here and our board to thank each of you for your interest in our company and for your continued support.
We look forward to having you join us on our January of 2012 conference call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; and Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone.
In a moment I'll review our fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results.
Following my remarks Jim will offer his comments and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences and results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
Let me begin by reviewing AK Steel's results for the fourth quarter of 2011 which were reported earlier today.
During the quarter we continued to experience challenging market conditions along with ongoing high costs for steelmaking raw materials.
As a result for the fourth quarter AK Steel reported an adjusted net loss of $28 million or $0.26 per share.
The adjusted result excludes a pretax non-cash corridor charge of $268.1 million related to our pension plan.
The corridor charge relates to actuarial losses associated with our pension plan.
Under our method of employee benefits accounting we are required to recognize these charges immediately instead of amortizing them over time.
The corridor charge in the fourth quarter was primarily due to a lower discount rate as well as earning a less-than-assumed rate of return on the plan's investments in 2011.
Once again I would emphasize the corridor charge is noncash.
I would also note that we have reduced our expected annual rate of return on the pension plan investment portfolio to 8% from 8.5% beginning in 2012.
While this change will affect our reported income in 2012 it will not impact our future funding levels.
Shipments for the fourth quarter of 2011 totaled 1.4 million tons an increase of about 3% compared to the third quarter and consistent with our guidance.
Our average selling price in the fourth quarter was $1 070 per ton a decrease of approximately 8% compared to the third quarter and in line with our guidance.
Revenues in the fourth quarter totaled $1 509 000 000 a decrease of about 5% compared to the prior quarter.
Sales outside the U.S.
continue to be an important source of revenue for us and totaled approximately $212 million for the quarter or about 14% of sales.
During the fourth quarter of 2011 raw material costs moderated slightly but continued to pressure our financial results.
However these costs were largely in line with our expectations.
We did benefit from a LIFO credit of $44.1 million in the fourth quarter compared to a LIFO credit of $9.5 million in the third quarter.
Our LIFO credit for the fourth quarter was larger than we had anticipated due principally to certain year-end inventory levels that were lower than expected.
Also due to the continued weakening of the euro our fourth quarter results were negatively impacted by a foreign exchange loss of approximately $3.5 million.
On an operating basis we incurred an adjusted operating loss of $32.6 million or $23 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2011 substantially better than our guidance of a loss of $40 to $45 per ton.
Turning now to our full year results.
Shipments for 2011 totaled 5.7 million tons a slight increase compared to our shipments in 2010.
Revenues totaled nearly $6.5 billion an increase of approximately 8% compared to 2010 revenues.
Our average selling price in 2011 was $1 131 per ton about 7% higher than 2010.
And sales outside U.S.
totaled $946.4 million for 2011 an increase of $123 million or about 15% compared to 2010.
We recorded an adjusted operating profit of $66.8 million or $12 per ton for 2011.
That represents an improvement of about $128 million or $23 per ton compared to our adjusted operating loss of $61.1 million or $11 per ton for 2010.
Excluding the corridor charge which I mentioned previously we posted an adjusted net income of $10.3 million or $0.09 per share for the full year 2011.
That compares to an adjusted net loss of $59.8 million or $0.54 per share for the full year 2010.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
Capital investments totaled $30 [ph] million during the fourth quarter and $101 million for the full year of 2011.
Of special note during the fourth quarter of 2011 we invested approximately $125 million to acquire iron ore and metallurgical coal interests.
We announced these strategic acquisitions on October 4 2011.
As expected we generated a significant amount of working capital during the fourth quarter.
In fact working capital was a source of $203 million in cash in the quarter and for the year we achieved our objective of keeping working capital flat year-over-year despite higher average selling prices and increased raw material costs.
We also contributed to our pension fund.
In the calendar year of 2011 we contributed a total of $170 million to the pension plan.
For 2012 we are required to make pension contributions of approximately $170 million.
Of that amount we have completed a $29 million contribution earlier this month and we expect to make the remaining pension contributions of $141 million throughout the rest of the year.
For 2013 our current actuarials estimate of a required pension contribution remains at approximately $300 million.
During 2011 we made our final contribution of $65 million to the Middletown Works retiree VEBA.
In total we contributed $663 million to the Middletown VEBA since 2008.
We also made an additional payment of $32 million related to the Butler Works VEBA settlement.
As part of that settlement we will make cash payments over a 3-year period totaling $91 million.
The remaining payments will be approximately $32 million in the third quarter of 2012 with a final payment of roughly $27 million in 2013.
Despite the challenging business conditions we faced throughout much of 2011 we ended the year in solid financial condition with liquidity of $559 million.
Finally let me offer some comments about 2012.
We expect to provide specific guidance for the first quarter of 2012 in March.
Further to improve the clarity of our guidance beginning in March we plan to provide earnings per share guidance rather than operating profit per ton guidance.
We will continue to provide various other metrics such as expected shipments average sales price and other helpful data points to enable modeling and analysis of our results.
Let me provide some of the data points though for the full year 2012 at this time.
We anticipate total capital investments of approximately $150 million in 2012.
This includes approximately $50 million for our 2 strategic investments in iron ore and coal.
In total we anticipate these strategic investments will be accretive to earnings in 2012.
I would point out that the financial results for AK Steel's 49.9% interest in the Magnetation LLC joint venture were reported as part of other income on our income statement.
We expect to incur interest expense of roughly $60 million in 2012 and we anticipate that pension and OPEB combined will be a credit of $35 million on the income statement in 2012 which is about the same as it was for 2011.
Finally with respect to income taxes while we are projecting a book tax rate for 2012 of roughly 40% we estimate that our cash tax rate will continue to be less than 5%.
Now for his comments I'll turn it over to Jim.
Thank you Al.
Good morning everyone.
I appreciate you joining us on today's call.
Although AK Steel's fourth quarter of 2011 was slightly better than we'd expected it did represent our toughest quarter of the year.
Even after excluding the pension corridor charge the combined effects of lower production and lower selling prices nearly eroded our profitability from the prior 3 quarters of 2011.
But despite a challenging fourth quarter I'm pleased to report that for the first year since 2008 we generated adjusted net income for the full year 2011.
Once again this is before taking into account the pension corridor charge that Al detailed.
Compared to 2010 our financial performance in 2011 represented meaningful progress and we look for continued improvement in our results for 2012 and beyond.
In recent years our margins have been squeezed by lower shipments selling prices and operating rates coupled with higher steelmaking input costs.
However our sense is that things are beginning to improve on a number of these fronts.
For example carbon steel prices are rising.
All of our automotive customer contracts that is those that are longer than 6 months now incorporate pricing mechanisms that allow for adjustments related to iron ore costs.
Our operating rates are improving and we can see daylight on the raw materials front.
In 2011 we continued to manage those things that were within our control: employee safety product quality unit productivity and controllable cost.
Let me highlight a few standout performances in these areas.
On the safety front an outstanding performance was delivered by our Zanesville Works employees.
The Zanesville had 0 OSHA recordable cases for the entire year and on top of that employees at that plant have worked now more than 3 100 days that's about 8.5 years without incurring an OSHA lost workday.
These are fantastic accomplishments and I offer my sincere thanks and congratulations to the employees at Zanesville and to all of our employees for making safety their highest priority.
Speaking of our employees in December of 2011 we announced that we'd reached an early agreement with the United Steelworkers union on a 3-year labor contract at our AK Tube Walbridge Ohio location.
This agreement replaced the existing contract that was set to expire 2 days ago on January 22 2012.
For the remainder of this year we have 2 additional labor agreements expiring: one at our Zanesville Works with the United Auto Workers that expires on May 20 2012; and one at our Butler Works which is also with the UAW and that labor deal expires on September 30 of this year.
In both cases we're hopeful that we will be successful in reaching new labor agreements well ahead of the current contract expiration dates.
Moving from our employees to our customers.
Our performance for our customers continues to lead the steel industry.
In what is frequently perceived is at commodity business our superior quality is one of the most important ways in which AK Steel differentiates itself from its peers.
Led by our Mansfield Works for 2011 we established new internal quality performance records as our rates for internal rejections and retreated products came in at their lowest levels in the company's history.
In addition our customers were very happy with our quality performances as well.
Each quarter an independent customer survey is performed by Jacobson and Associates that compares AK Steel to our most direct competitors.
We're delighted with the results of this survey for the fourth quarter of 2011.
I'd like to take a moment to share them with you now.
According to the Jacobson survey results for Q4 AK Steel was rated #1 in quality service on-time delivery and overall customer satisfaction by our carbon steel customers.
And we were rated #1 in quality service and overall customer satisfaction by our specialty steel customers.
During the fourth quarter we also received Supplier of the Year Awards from 2 of our fine customers Kenwal Steel and Mapes &amp; Sprowl.
These are marvelous accomplishments and they're the result of tremendous work by our entire organization.
Let me take this opportunity to thank all of our employees from the shop floors to the executive offices for continuing to put our customers first.
Serving customers better than any other steelmaker is at the heart of who we are what we do and how we do it at AK Steel.
And it's great that our customers appreciate the job that we're doing for them particularly in these challenging economic times.
From a productivity standpoint on average our operating units ran at just north of 70% of capacity for the fourth quarter of 2011 and slightly more than 80% of capacity for the full year 2011.
At present we estimate that our units will operate between 80% and 85% during the year 2012.
Improving our yield performance was a major goal of ours in 2011 and not only did we succeed in doing so but we actually set new yield records at numerous operating units and plant locations throughout the company.
A real standout performer was our Coshocton Works where new productivity marks were set at the Z mills temper mills and slitters among other units.
Now let me shift from looking in the rearview mirror to looking ahead.
Although as Al said we're not providing specific guidance at this time for our first quarter of 2012 let me give you some sense at least directionally speaking of what we are seeing and what we expect to occur this year.
In short there are a number of factors that when taken together should allow us to substantially improve our first quarter 2012 financial performance compared to that of 4Q of 2011.
Although first quarter 2012 shipments will likely be lower than those of the fourth quarter we expect to operate at significantly higher production rates to ensure that we can meet increasing customer requirements for the balance of 2012.
From an order book standpoint we have experienced an increased order intake rate for carbon steel products over the past couple of weeks or so.
Lead times are extending on all of our carbon products.
As a result we're in a stronger position at this point in the first quarter of 2012 than we were at this time in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Due to a higher level of demand and a need to recover higher steelmaking input costs we've been raising prices in the spot market.
Back since October 1 2011 we've announced 3 spot market price increases for carbon steel products totaling $140 per ton for hot-rolled and $150 per ton for cold-rolled and coated products.
In 2011 we increased our contract sales participation and we expect to do more of that in 2012 and beyond.
That said let me emphasize that the spot market remains a very important market for AK Steel's carbon steel products.
At a seasonally adjusted 2.2 months of supply on hand service in our inventories of flat-rolled carbon steel remained below their historical average of about 2.4 months’ supply on hand.
And importantly service center shipment levels were fairly robust in the fourth quarter of 2011 at 108 000 tons per day.
December's seasonally adjusted service center shipments were the third-highest month of the entire year.
With the recent uptick in the marketplace we've seen a number of service center customers trying to secure product in rapid fashion to meet the needs of their customers.
Moving to the automotive market.
Coming off a strong recovery year in 2011 the automotive market appears poised to continue to improve though still far below the pre-recession annual totals for automotive sales.
Light vehicle sales improved to about 12.7 million units for 2011 and for 2012 the consensus expectation is for the sale of about 13.5 million vehicles.
We're encouraged by this outlook and hope that like 2011 this forecast proves to be a conservative one.
Let me offer a few comments on our contract pricing for 2012.
At various times throughout the year we have contract business that comes up for price renegotiation.
To date we've been successful in negotiating higher base prices with most of our contract customers.
And as I mentioned we also succeeded in expanding the coverage of raw material variable pricing mechanisms to help recover a portion of our future raw material cost increases.
Moving from carbon to specialty steels.
As you may recall for AK Steel specialty steels consist of the stainless steel market and the electrical steel market.
And further within stainless steel we serve 3 separate and distinct markets: the 400 series or auto chrome market the 300 series or commodity chrome-nickel market and the specialty sheet and strip market.
With strong automotive demand we're experiencing solid demand for our auto chrome or 400 series stainless steel products.
As automotive builds increase and automotive customers replenish their inventories we expect higher Q1 of 2012 shipments as compared to Q4 of 2011 shipments of auto chrome products.
Similarly we're looking for higher shipments of specialty stainless steel products in Q1 compared to Q4.
These are products that are largely produced out of our Coshocton Works.
Once again customers including automotive energy and appliance customers among others are replenishing inventories in anticipation of a continuing slow-but-steady economic recovery.
However when it comes to commodity chrome-nickel products as has been the case for some time now distributors are only buying what they absolutely need and nothing more.
That said we have seen a seasonal uptick in demand and we've announced a 12% price increase effective January 1.
In addition yesterday we announced another 5% price increase effective March 4.
On the electrical steel front demand continues to be relatively weak both within NAFTA and internationally.
Within NAFTA the new transformer market continues to be slow as housing starts remain at historically very low levels.
Similarly exports of grain-oriented electrical steel are down as increased supply a strengthening dollar and instability of the European economy have contributed to this weakness.
One bright spot within electrical steel continues to be steady demand for our high-efficiency TRAN-COR H or TCH products.
Whereas the market for lower efficiency grades is currently oversupplied things are in much better balance for TCH-grade products.
On the whole we expect roughly similar electrical steel shipment volumes for 2012 as compared to 2011 and we would expect somewhat lower average electrical steel prices perhaps about 2% for our contract and spot market sales of that product line.
Moving to the steelmaking input cost front.
We expect a better year in 2012 compared to recent years.
Lower iron ore pellet costs and other input cost reductions are expected to more than offset increases for coal.
While the future certainly feels better than it has in a while our ability to forecast much beyond a month or 2 remains difficult.
Many of the same issues that caused us to change our guidance practice in the fourth quarter of 2011 remain the same today including a slow and uncertain economic recovery the lack of visibility on spot market orders and pricing and the continuing volatility of input costs albeit to a lesser extent than was the case a quarter or so ago.
As we look down the road 2 of the things that we are most excited about are the vertical integration investments that we made in October of 2011 in Magnetation and AK Coal Resources.
Magnetation is already running its first concentrate plant and recently completed the installation of its rail load out facility.
In addition great progress has been made on the construction of its second concentrate plant which is expected to begin operations in the second quarter of this year and ramp up production in the second half.
Magnetation also recently succeeded in securing substantially more tailing basins for future mining activity.
This puts the venture in an even better position to achieve the strategy of a 3 million metric ton pellet plant by 2016 or depending on permitting activities possibly even sooner.
At AK Coal Resources we continue to make solid progress on our mine plan and permitting activities.
We're also exploring alternatives to accelerate our coal production there.
Overall we're off and running and pleased with the progress to date of each of these key strategic investments for AK Steel.
In 2011 we thought we were on the road to recovery as we were certainly ready and determined to restore profitability and add value for AK Steel shareholders but candidly the economy and raw material prices did not cooperate.
In hindsight it was a tougher year than we'd expected with lower-than-expected selling prices and higher-than-expected raw material costs.
Having said that we've come through the most difficult economic downturn in recent history and maybe ever and we're still standing still competing and we find ourselves on the front end of an economic recovery with vertical integration initiatives set to kick in in the years ahead that unlock great value for AK Steel.
As we look ahead to 2012 our team remains focused on creating and on delivering value for our shareholders.
Great teams find a way to win and we indeed will find a way to win in the year 2012.
It'll take great teamwork to achieve what we set out to do last year but our team is absolutely committed to improving our earnings and cash flow in 2012 and beyond.
This year we'll strive to tap our potential as we enhance our product margins accelerate vertical integration activities and manage working capital better than ever as we endeavor to serve our customers better than any other steelmaker.
I have the great fortune to lead a terrific management team with the support of a outstanding Board of Directors.
Our team has a track record of success and we're excited and ready to tackle our challenges in the year 2012 and beyond.
I'm confident with all that we've done and all we will do that better days are ahead for AK Steel.
Lastly every team is made up of its players and one important player at AK Steel will be retiring at the end of this month.
After more than 35 years of dedicated service Alan McCoy who has served as AK Steel's Vice President of Government and Public Relations has chosen to retire.
For his tremendous contributions to this company I want to take this opportunity to thank Alan and wish him and his family well in his retirement.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First just on electrical you mentioned that pricing might be down about 2% this year.
Just for clarification is that your overall pricing between international and domestic or is that just NAFTA contacts? That's really an overall comment just trying to give you some sense as you do your models.
I don't know that we'd break it out any more finite than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also just noticing over the past few quarters your cold-rolled shipments have been trending down; hot-rolled secondarily spiked in the fourth quarter.
And I just wanted to kind of get behind what's driving that mix shift and is that something that we can probably see reverse over 2012? It's a great observation.
It's something we talk a lot about internally.
I think a lot of it depends on what customers are looking to buy.
We only make what we sell.
So but I think it's our desire to be more of a value-added player and I think you'll see us shifting more from hot-rolled to cold-rolled and more cold-rolled to coated products.
Candidly at this point most of our coating units are full with the exception of the EG line but there's activity going on there as well.
So yes I think it's a good observation and I think you'll see that shift back to sort of a more normal territory for us here in future quarters.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question on the raw material side.
You talked about coal prices stepping up for you in 2012.
Can you give us a sense of the magnitude there? And also on iron ore you'll be benefiting from lower contract prices in the first quarter.
Can you give us a sense of on the timing and how that flows through? Let me it's a big area let me just sort of kick it off and then certainly Al can chime in as well.
I would say we're delighted this year that on the whole we expect a lower steelmaking input cost.
It has been many years since we've been able to make that statement.
And so there are a number of things behind that.
Certainly on the iron ore front our iron ore costs are going to be down this year.
After peaking at nearly $200 a ton we saw a fairly significant drop in iron ore pricing but it's moderated back in that $140-or-so range.
We had iron ore pricing I would guess somewhere in the $165 $167 range for the fourth quarter.
It's still going to be $160-ish in the first quarter.
What's going on there Luke is we have some carry-over tonnage.
And the other thing to keep in mind is the way that those costs work for example first quarter of 2012 pricing for iron ore is based on the 3 months that ended 11/30 of 2011.
So there's a bit of a lagging effect which is another way of saying that as we get into the second quarter and the second half of this year and particularly with the ramp-up of Magnetation we really expect to enjoy the benefits of lower iron ore costs flowing through our product costs.
With respect to coal I'd just offer a couple of thoughts.
First you will recall that we benefited in 2011 to some extent from the timing of when we got our deals done.
Our deals were concluded largely before the Australian floods occurred and prices escalated.
We have gotten good deals done we think this year but they're off a higher base in light of the success we had in 2011 and they're roughly in line with where the market is today maybe slightly ahead of that.
But rather than breaking out coal and coke and iron ore I would just say that overall we're delighted with what's going on there.
And then the other thing I'd just add I'd be remiss if didn't is to the extent that we're wrong with iron ore we do have the ability now with our contract business all of our automotive customers I mentioned those deals that are greater than 6 months in late -- in length rather we're able to pass that through through a variable pricing mechanism and that gives us a good income [ph].
So I think the volatility that we've seen in years past and it's been enormous with respect to things like iron ore should be dampened considerably.
All I would add Jim is in addition to dampening that volatility will be the variable pricing mechanisms that we incorporated into our commercial contracts.
So in the future we'll further lessen some of that impact.
Right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just a follow-up on that.
With those moves in mind in raw material costs and we've seen some increase in steel prices I mean do you think that you guys are going to able to generate a profit in the first quarter? If we were going to give you our guidance we would have given it to you but we'll be doing so in March and when we have more clarity on that we'll be there.
I think everything we're trying to tell you is we look for a substantially better first quarter and a better year for all the reasons that we've noted but we haven't quantified it just yet.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
This is actually John Sullivan filling in for Brian.
I just had a quick question on the domestic carbon steel markets.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit about the state of competition both in terms of imports and other domestic producers.
Well let me just say that I think as noted in my prepared remarks we've seen a bit of an uptick.
We've utilized that opportunity as we independently took a look at our order intake rates and our cost situation and the need to recover those costs to not be shy about raising prices we've done that.
And we are realizing that.
I think as orders have picked up the traction has been gaining in terms of the degree that we're realizing those price increases and I think that's certainly a positive for us.
Candidly we think that there's further upside potential John here for pricing as customers replenish what I referred to as relatively low inventory levels and as our raw material costs while they're better still remain very very high.
In terms of the state of competition as you know it's a tough business it always is and I think a lot of people focus on increased capacity coming online and sort of how does that play with imports.
I think we're probably at or near an inflection point.
We haven't seen a big rush of imports but I think we continue to hear more and more at these pricing levels that some of that may come.
We'll keep a close eye on that and monitor it carefully as we have continued discussions with our customers.
Our next question comes from Richard Garchitorena of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to clarify on the raw material on the iron ore from Q4 being at $160 in Q1 likely would be $160 [ph] per ton as well.
Should we expect the $140 that was the average in Q4 to be the average assumed in Q2 is that fair? Well what you're talking about there Richard is just the way the IODEX works in the sense that clearly the when you talk about Q4 clearly there is that delay that comes about our prices for the fourth quarter were set by the end of August and of course for the first quarter at the end of November.
So clearly that flows through.
What Jim was saying though is there are some factors in the first quarter that impact us specifically in the first quarter but as the year works through and that IODEX declines if you will we will benefit on a delayed basis going forward in other words largely starting in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that's you'll still see that great.
And then also assuming the higher utilization rates that there's -- can we assume that it also helps on a cost per ton as well? Clearly if you increase utilization it will be beneficial to us.
It is one of those things as you operate more efficiently.
Clearly those costs will flow through and that will be a benefit to us in the first quarter no question about it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question just in terms of volumes.
With the 80% to 85% utilization rates is that basically all your operations carbon and electrical and stainless? Is that...
Richard it's an overall number that we gave just for comparative purposes.
It really does fluctuate depending on demand for certain products.
But I think that it's fair to say that it's indicative of what we're seeing just about everywhere.
And it's a better number but we're a high-fixed-cost type operation we want to make even more.
80% to 85% is better than it's been but it's certainly not anywhere near where we want to be.
Our next question comes from David Katz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that we can come back to the pensions.
If I heard you right Al I thought you said that this year it would be $170 million and the next year $300 million is that correct? That is correct David yes sir.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we're looking at the cash flow statement you guys have that line pension and OPEB expense in excess of payments and that's been running between $25 million and $30 million a quarter for the past 8 quarters.
Do you expect that to run the same in 2012 and '13? We would be looking for something in that area probably around $150 million in 2012.
That's the difference between what our pension and OPEB credit will be about $35 million versus what we will be paying actually in healthcare and related expenses of about $80 million.
And so when you aggregate those 2 together the $35 million credit plus the $80 million in cash it comes about $115-ish if you will.
That can fluctuate during the year but I that's a pretty good estimate right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we look forward obviously that implies a cash outflow imbalanced [ph] against the better results which you guys have highlighted that you expect on the call.
In the past you've mentioned that you anticipated coming to the market for some long-term financing to match the long-term assets that you've purchased.
Do you have a time line on that? I'd just offer if I could Dave that we financed these 2 major acquisitions or joint ventures as the case maybe last year really out of cash and working capital.
I think most companies tend to match their long-term investments with longer-term financing as opposed to using their credit facility.
So we're always exploring really the best capital market options to support the long-term growth and sustainability of the business.
And I think it's fair to say that if the Board elects to do something along those lines we'll pick our spot and access the capital markets to support those projects and perhaps others down the road as well but nothing to announce today along those lines.
Our next question comes from Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us some insight on your natural gas contracts? Would that the lower natural gas pricing will help you or are you hedged out for the year? Sal natural gas is a good guide for us this year.
I don't know that many of us can remember the gas Strip in the 250 to 350 range but it's a wonderful thing.
As gas has been falling we've been advantaging ourselves of that falling price as we have been hedging our position.
And we haven't entirely hedged our year but I would say we're mostly hedged so that to the extent that gas falls further we may not enjoy as much of it.
On the other hand to the extent that gas goes back to more normal levels it isn’t going to cost us either.
So I don't think that there's a material movement there other than year-over-year it's certainly a positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jim I think you mentioned that first quarter shipment will be lower than fourth quarter.
Is that correct? Yes I think marginally so.
I don't know we haven't given guidance along those lines.
There's still some opportunity that we're playing through.
A lot of it Sal would relate to the business that we've gained particularly in the contract arena.
And to serve contract customers you have to have a degree of inventory on hand: They kind of look in the pipeline and want to make sure it's there.
And all of them are telling us that they're looking for a better year.
They want us to be ready to support increasing pools and that's part of the reasons so you're constantly balancing where you should be.
And in our case we've been moving more towards contract a little bit away from spot.
I think the last year was close to 60-40 and we hope to take that into the 60s this year with increased contract business.
So that's one of the reasons behind that.
Our next question comes from Mark Parr of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow on on the contract-spot mix could you give us some idea of the amount of base pricing momentum in the contract arena for '12 versus '11? I don't know that we would be comfortable giving individual percentage increases except to say that we have been successful in getting higher base prices.
A lot of it depends on when the last deal was done how long it was and what base price you started from.
But again these are relationships.
We do our very best that we can to make sure that our customers know just as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we're there to provide great quality delivery and service that's worth something to most of our customers if not virtually all of our contract customers.
And we've got various other deals that are coming up throughout this year and we would expect in those cases just as in those that we've already gotten deals done to get higher base prices as well.
And we'll continue to push for coverage on the input costs.
It is an education process it's a communications process.
All of them have a varying degree of desire to accept risk and we understand that.
We're working closely together.
But base prices are up and they need to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
Just another thing just along those lines with the success that you've had in shifting the contract language to more variability can you give us some idea of how much the lack of variability cost you in 2011 that you will -- that will not be recurring this year? Do you want a stab at that Al? Well I think that's all we can say Mark is that we believe it will be positive.
It's very difficult to ratchet that on a year-over-year basis.
It was a challenge last year.
Our raw material costs went up last year over $500 million so we didn't cover any near as much as that as we should have.
I think we're positioned very well for the future in terms of taking a lot of that risk off the table but like I said it's very tough one on saying what would it have been last year if we would have done things differently.
We prefer to look to the future and say we think we're very well positioned going forward and continuing every day to improve our relative position on our costs.
Let me just add on to Al's point: Raw materials and our lack of vertical integration over the last 7 8 years anyhow that we've been counting has cost us something north of $2 billion.
Now it's annualized at a $2 billion rate.
It's really eaten our lunch.
We are delighted that we have begun to take care of that situation with our new strategic investments coupled with the great relationships that we have with our customers.
And so I think those 2 things really make us feel pretty good almost no matter what direction those input costs go in terms of where we are in the future.
It's a new day for AK Steel.
Our next question comes from Michelle Applebaum of Steel Market Intelligence.
Can I ask 2 questions? Yes.
Okay.
The first one was about electrical steel.
You filed an 8-K a few days ago with some new disclosure in it and the main new disclosure in the 8-K was about a pending proposal from DOE in February of 2012 revising energy efficiency standards that could impact that the DOE may change the efficiency standards in a way that could substantially reduce or even eliminate the competitiveness of electrical steel for use in such transformers.
This would result in a decrease of AK Steel's sales of electrical steel and adversely affect et cetera.
I was just wondering if -- the only disclosure we have is the risk factor you're now talking about -- now can you give me a little bit more color since electrical steel has been such a key part of your P&amp;L the last few years and such a great profit center for you? Happy to do so.
Thanks for raising it.
First I'd just suggest that for all of you on the call that you read the risk factors contained in our public filings including our latest one and any discussion here really doesn't begin to substitute for the breadth of those comments so I just want to make that statement upfront.
We did have a filing here recently and as you know whenever there's a securities offering there is a pretty broad reach and we felt that in light of a recent development  here a potential near-term development it was worthy of disclosure.
A little bit of background: The Department of Energy has been looking at standards for electrical steel for a while and they've indicated the DOE has indicated that it will publish proposed standards on or before February 1 2012 which is not long from now.
We have had a prominent position in forming a group if you will of interested parties who have a particular perspective on this includes other producers manufacturers of transformers utility groups and various labor unions as well to make our case.
And our central message is simply this: that we want to make sure that a lot of thought is given to really balancing the need for energy efficiency and the economy because depending on what standards might be proposed a situation could arise such that a foreign-owned company might be given monopolistic pricing and potentially sole sourcing of a product and that's not a good thing for us it's not a good thing for other producers or manufacturers of the product.
So there is more to follow and certainly the final standards as we understand it wouldn't be out until October 2012 or beyond.
But given the state of activity there we felt it was worthwhile to raise it as a bit of a risk factor.
Okay great and I'm glad that you've put that out there.
So it sounds like we really don't know anything yet.
We really do not Michelle.
And I think we're hopeful that good calm and constructive heads will prevail in terms of what makes sense here.
We're always as a company and I think as an industry about energy efficiency.
It just has to be balanced with the economics.
Okay great.
I want to ask the second question now.
So forgive me I do this green eyeshade thing on accounting but I teach securities and analysis so I have to be true to that.
So on the LIFO in the fourth quarter you had $44 million credit but of the $44 million $46 million was actually for the prior 9 months.
So if you had had great crystal ball you would have had a $2 million LIFO charge for the fourth quarter am I getting that right Al? I'm going to respectfully hand that over to Al.
Yes so I'm going to Al here.
Michelle our LIFO expense for the year was $10 million and so in theory correct: that had we known what we knew at the beginning we would have had a LIFO charge if you will of $2.5 million per quarter throughout the year.
But as you know we started out the year with an expectation at the beginning of the year that we would have a LIFO charge of $100 million which is why we accrued $25 million in the first quarter and then of course that adjusted to another $38 million in the second quarter.
And then we had a $9 million credit in the third quarter and then ultimately the $44 million credit.
So the point of that is you are correct that throughout the year that our charge was $10 million so it would have averaged $2.5 million.
But we only knew what we knew and that was why we essentially adjusted debt and trued it up each quarter.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> Can you talk a bit about advanced high-strength steel in this Generations 3 version that some of your competitors are now crowing about and whether you can make it or not and how important it is or could be? Yes we can make it for whatever reason we were not mentioned in today's Wall Street Journal article on the other competing materials and so forth.
It is obviously in vogue it's the material of choice.
Steel for that matter is the material of choice when it comes to making automobiles I don't think any of us want to drive around in a sponge car or for that matter probably an aluminum car and particularly if it gets banged up or it needs to get repaired.
But the fact of the matter is that with the administration's push and all of our desires for again energy efficiency at a price we are about that.
We have a number of relationships with various folks around the world in Asia and in Europe that we share technology and how to produce and we indeed are in that market and are continuing to look for opportunities to grow our position there.
Inc.</strong> So Severstal is not the only maker in the U.S.
as they claim.
I think their gentleman may have said that and he may feel strongly about that and that's fine that's his prerogative but it's not accurate.
There's obviously ongoing research for many new grades we're involved with as well.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor of Longbow Research.
Congratulations first of all on getting the pass-through into your automotive contracts on the raw materials.
What percentage of the non-automotive contracts are going to include raw material pass-through? Well I think what we've generally said David is that about 90% of our agreements have raw material pass-throughs.
We haven't delineated that between automotive and non-automotive.
And like I said we continue to move in the direction of trying to maximize that.
And ultimately we our hope is to be up to 100% but we’re at about 90% of our total contractual agreements have some component of a raw material pass-through and we're continuing to add to that as time goes on.
Is there a wide degree of variance in terms of how these pass-throughs are structured? Or is there more of a common architecture like in your austenitic business? Dave it's Jim Wainscott.
There are many different mechanisms and just as with each customer and their desire for different kinds of steel there's different contracts.
I don't know that it would benefit us to get into that except to say that there are certainly trade-offs between floors and ceilings or other things in terms of when certain things kick in.
And all of that really is part of the greater negotiations that go on in trying to meet our customers' needs.
Okay good.
On the working capital are there 2012 targets for the full year you can share with us? Well the only thing is David is we recognized last year we were able to achieve our goal of essentially having working capital flat year-over-year.
That's always our goal.
Clearly this year we're into our revolving credit somewhat more than we wanted to be.
Jim I think explained why that was.
But like I said I think on an ongoing basis our goal is to minimize the use of our working capital through minimizing your inventories maximizing our payables and keeping our accounts receivable low through our limiting our days sales outstanding down to about 30 31 days.
But your upshot is we don't have any public goals other than to say that our goal each and every year is to maintain working capital flat year-over-year and like I said the last several years we've been able to achieve that.
We'll continue to do that this year.
Obviously it always presents a challenge in an up market but we think we have the wherewithal to do just that.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you I know you said that the order books have stretched out a little bit can you talk through by carbon steel or specialty steel et cetera a rough sense everybody sort of seems to say that they're full for the quarter can you guys sort of talk by product area just how far the order books have stretched out? And then a little bit about the difference between international prices particularly Asian prices and prices here and how you're keeping imports off these shores.
I would say that lead times are extending.
We do still have some product to sell but not a vast amount.
For carbon steel I would say hot-rolled is now out to end-of-February kind of time frame for hot-rolled that is.
For coated and cold-rolled we're well into March perhaps late March for coated kind of thing.
And for stainless again I would say it's probably out into the March time frame.
So that's pretty good particularly as you look back at recent years the first quarter where things are at.
We feel comfortable about that.
We're keeping an eye on imports it hasn't been a problem yet.
But again given some of the economic decline in China we're always mindful of what might come if they continue to employ people and make product and a bit of a sneeze over there could cause a real cold or pneumonia for us but there's nothing individually we can do other than to monitor that situation and try and provide great quality and delivery.
The fact of the matter is we're domiciled here we're able to serve customers here very very well.
I guess about 80%-plus of the business that we have is NAFTA based and so we're well positioned to serve our customers very timely.
That cannot be said with a number of others including some of the startups.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then the other one relates back to pension.
You mentioned $170 million in cash payments in 2012 a bit below the kind of the target.
Can you sort of guesstimate at 2013 cash payments at this point based on that number? We've indicated our cash payments in 2013 will be approximately $300 million.
Our next question comes from Kuni Chen of CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one I think most my questions have been asked already.
Can you just give us some view on any major outages or maintenance planned throughout the year which we should be thinking about? Kuni we are currently thinking in terms of probably 2 blast furnace stops 1 is a little bit larger than the other.
At the present time it would likely be a third quarter event at the Ashland blast furnace costs somewhere in the $10 million to $15 million range to be determined.
The other would be likely a fourth quarter event at Middletown.
We haven't really taken a stop there since we had our major reline a couple of years ago or so I guess it will be 3 years really coming up.
And so that's going to run again probably knocking on the door of $10 million as we're going to do some other things at the BO shop.
So I would say those are the 2 big guys and they're really just to continue to position us well.
As you know we have a very good maintenance program it served us very very well over the years.
We don't want to go any longer than we can or we need to so we'll be taking those and we'll plan accordingly.
And it will be another reason why inventories from time to time will vary throughout the year.
But those are the big ones.
We'll take hot strip mill outages and other outages as conditions warrant and as we need to maintain the equipment but those are the 2 big ones I'd mention.
Our final question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
This is actually Devin Corr.
Tim had to step off for another commitment.
Just a quick question a lot have been asked.
Was [ph] a large  destocking into Q4.
Do you have any plans to restock in the near future? I know you mentioned flat working capital year-over-year.
Just  wanted to see kind of what you're thinking on a restock as we go into Q1.
I think there is an element of that Devin that occurs and that's really very typical.
It's a seasonal kind of thing for us.
The second and third quarters tend to be stronger quarters.
Also you bring in a degree of raw materials this time of year.
As Al talked about our goal on working capital for the year as a whole is to stay flat that's been challenging.
And as we continue to grow our sales and increase contract business it'll be even more challenging.
We from time to time put a task force together to look at working capital but I remind our group that while the task force efforts may be done the task is just beginning.
This is a way of life for us.
We are very focused on managing working capital.
But I think you'll see a bit of working capital growth just to take advantage of shipment opportunities in the second quarter and the second half.
We should say that working capital will largely increase in the first quarter I mean as this normally does.
And as Jim mentioned with the build there and to build inventories for the second and third quarter but working capital will be a consumer of cash in the first quarter.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comment.
Ladies and gentlemen as we sign off I just want to take this opportunity again to thank you for your interest in and your continuing support of AK Steel.
We hope that you can join us in about 3 months for our First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
And until then we wish you a great first quarter and a much better year in 2012.
Thanks very much and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; and Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone.
In a moment I'll review our first quarter 2012 financial results.
Following my remarks Jim will offer his comments and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
Let me begin by reviewing AK Steel's results for the first quarter of 2012 which were reported earlier today.
For the first quarter AK Steel reported a net loss of $11.8 million or $0.11 per share.
This was at the favorable end of our guidance range and represented a significant improvement compared to our adjusted net loss for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Shipments for the first quarter totaled 1 325 900 tons a decrease of 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 but better than our guidance.
Our average selling price per ton for the first quarter was $1 138 per ton an increase of approximately 6% compared to the fourth quarter and in line with our guidance.
Revenues for the first quarter totaled $1 509 000 000 virtually the same level of sales as for the prior quarter.
Sales outside the U.S.
continued to be an important source of revenue for us and they totaled approximately $225 million for the quarter.
This represented about 15% of total sales for the first quarter and an increase of 6% compared to the prior quarter.
We did benefit from a LIFO credit of $12.4 million in the first quarter.
As expected this credit was substantially less than the LIFO credit of $44.1 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On an operating basis we achieved an operating profit of $4.1 million or $3 per ton for the first quarter of 2012 a substantial improvement over our adjusted operating loss of $32.6 million or $23 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Turning to the balance sheet.
In March we successfully issued new 10-year senior notes due in 2022.
Strong demand from investors allowed us to upsize the amount of the offering from $250 million to $300 million.
The notes were priced at an attractive long-term interest rate of 8 3/8%.
As a result of this transaction we now expect our interest expense for 2012 to total approximately $80 million.
The completion of this transaction enhances our financial flexibility and is consistent with our stated objective of funding long-term strategic investments with long-term financing.
Our senior notes issuance also improves our liquidity which I will discuss further in just a moment.
In the first quarter of 2012 our capital investments totaled $10.5 million.
As expected working capital consumed $150.7 million of cash during the first quarter as we increased our inventories to support anticipated higher second quarter sales.
We also used cash to contribute to our pension fund.
In the first quarter of 2012 we contributed approximately $29 million to our pension trust fund.
And as we announced this morning we completed the remainder of our 2012 pension contributions early by contributing approximately $141 million to the pension trust fund in April.
That brings our total pension contributions for 2012 to approximately $170 million.
I might add that this also brings our total contributions to the pension trust since 2005 to nearly $1.5 billion.
In addition our liquidity remains solid as we ended the first quarter of 2012 with liquidity of about $883 million.
Finally looking forward we expect to provide specific guidance for the second quarter of 2012 in mid-June.
As previously announced in March we expect business conditions to improve compared to the first quarter of 2012 led by increased strength in the automotive market.
Overall we expect second quarter 2012 shipments to be higher than the first quarter of 2012.
We also expect to have improved operating rates in 2012 second quarter along with lower cost for raw materials as compared to the first quarter.
As a result we expect to generate net income for the second quarter of 2012.
Now for his comments I'll turn it over to Jim.
Thank you Al.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
Although we reported an $0.11 per share loss for the first quarter of this year the good news is that the factors that contributed to that loss are mostly behind us.
And as a result we expect to report net income for Q2.
As to how much we'll have more to say on that subject when we provide more detailed guidance in the mid-June time frame.
Having said that in the near term we see positive momentum on a number of fronts starting with increased shipments higher operating rates and lower raw material costs.
In just a moment I'll provide some color commentary in terms of what we're seeing in our markets and on the steelmaking input cost front.
But first let me take a moment to provide an update on our key business basics namely: safety quality and productivity.
When you take care of your people you take good care of your customers well all things are possible for your company and that's our philosophy at AK Steel and it's a philosophy that's served us well for a number of years.
It all starts with keeping our employees safe.
Our first quarter safety performance was stellar.
In fact we tied our best ever first quarter safety results with only 3 OSHA recordable accidents throughout the entire company.
Thanks to all of our employees for making safety their highest priority every day.
During the first quarter we were honored for our 2011 safety performances at our Zanesville Works and at AK Tube.
I'll take this opportunity to congratulate our employees at those locations on achieving this well-deserved recognition.
As good as we feel about receiving safety awards and as proud as we are of our track record when you run 7 steel plants 24/7 and 2 tube plants there's never a finish line when it comes to safety.
Accordingly we will remain vigilant in applying our approach to safety in terms of educating equipping and enforcing; the 3 Es if you will.
We owe it to our employees and to their families to do so.
Speaking of our Zanesville employees during the first quarter we reached an early labor agreement there with the United Auto Workers.
This 3-year contract continues to provide a competitive and flexible labor arrangement for AK Steel and our Zanesville employees.
Our one remaining labor agreement for 2012 is with the United Auto Workers representing our Butler Works plant.
This agreement is set to expire on September 30 but we're hopeful that we can reach an early labor deal at Butler that enhances our ability to compete.
Now let me shift from safety to quality.
One of the hallmarks of AK Steel is our consistently excellent product quality and thanks to all of our employees once again the first quarter of 2012 continued this tradition.
During the quarter our internal quality measures were especially good.
As a company we established all-time record performances for internal rejections and retreated products and every department at our Middletown Works every department set a new quality record in the first quarter.
Terrific job.
At AK Steel we strive to serve our customers better than any other steelmaker with a combination of superior product quality on-time delivery and outstanding customer service.
Over the years we fared quite well in the eyes of our customers.
Continuing that tradition we also fared well in the first quarter of 2012 in the Jacobson independent survey of our customers.
Compared to our carbon steel integrated competitors AK Steel was ranked #1 in quality customer service and on-time delivery as well as inside sales support for Q1.
These performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our carbon market.
On the specialty steel front we were ranked #1 in quality customer service outside sales and inside sales support.
This performance also translated into the #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our specialty steel markets.
These outstanding performances and service to our great customers are the result of superb teamwork by all of our employees.
I congratulate our workforce on a job well done.
Now staying with the theme of customers and markets let me take a few moments to provide you with an update on what we're seeing in the way of demand and pricing for our products.
In general we continue to see a slow but steady economic recovery.
I know that sounds like a bit of a broken record but it's the most accurate description of what we continue to observe and experience.
That said one continuing bright spot is the automotive market.
In the first quarter of 2012 the automotive market which represents about 1/3 of AK Steel's sales showed continued strength as our automotive shipments reached their highest quarterly level since the second quarter of 2008.
Auto build rates were robust and they exceeded our own expectations.
As a result our first quarter 2012 shipments to automotive customers were quite a bit higher than those that we experienced for the fourth quarter of 2011.
In March U.S.
light vehicle sales were at an annual rate of about 14.5 million units and again that's the highest level since the first quarter of 2008.
And compared to the 13 million annual sales rate for the year-ago first quarter it was a double-digit percentage gain in terms of automotive sales.
We expect the automotive producers to keep pulling strongly in the second quarter as light vehicle inventories stand at only 58 days of supply on hand a number well below the historical average.
Taking all of this into account and consistent with our objective of increasing automotive contract sales we expect to increase shipments of carbon steel products to automakers in the year 2012 by about 20% over the year 2011.
In terms of autochrome stainless steel shipments we experienced approximately an 18% increase in shipments for the first quarter of 2012 compared to those of the fourth quarter of last year.
Moving to the construction market while construction remains in a low gear general manufacturing activity has been improving ever so slightly.
For example our infrastructure and manufacturing shipments increased in the first quarter of 2012 compared to Q4 most of which was driven by demand from appliance and HVAC customers.
The housing market is somewhat better but certainly not great.
Housing starts are still expected to increase by about 15% this year from 609 000 units in 2011 to about 700 000 units in 2012.
And while that would represent progress it would also mark the fifth consecutive year of less than 1 million housing starts.
By the way there have only been 4 years in the past 50 years where annual housing starts have been less than 1 million units and we've just lived through those past 4 years by the way.
We're continuing to focus our attention and we've succeeded in winning new business with OEMs who value our high-end products and appreciate the reliability of our quality delivery and customer service.
But I want to emphasize that there's also a meaningful place at our table for our important spot market customers.
Our largest market group continues to be the distributor and converters or the DNC for short market.
Throughout the first quarter DNC market customers remained cautious in their buying patterns as they continue to closely monitor their inventory levels.
Customers in this important market segment provide valuable processing activities and just-in-time deliveries to a variety of other market sectors.
As such they currently only want to hold just enough inventory to supply their contractual commitments in order to avoid suffering from volatile pricing swings.
Speaking of pricing to reflect increasing demand to recover our costs and ultimately to generate margins to sustain the enterprise AK Steel announced separate price increases for carbon and stainless steel products during the first quarter of 2012.
In light of ongoing low inventory levels of about 2.3 months of supply on hand at steel service centers coupled with anticipated rising scrap prices in the coming months they expect carbon steels spot market prices to continue to firm during the second quarter.
Now let me offer a few comments on the electrical steel market.
Our first quarter electrical steel shipments declined slightly as compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
We expect that our second quarter electrical steel shipments will be roughly flat when compared to Q1.
Overall demand from our NAFTA electrical steel customers has been steady although not inspiring.
We've experienced an uptick in the power transformer market while demand from the distribution transformer market has been relatively flat.
On the international front we have continued to experience global weakness led by ongoing uncertainty in Europe and slower growth rates in Asia.
Suffice it to say that international electrical steel pricing remains under pressure due to the global economic malaise that we face in that market.
One bright spot in electrical steel continues to be that global demand for high-efficiency electrical steel remains quite strong and that's the strength of AK Steel.
Turning from our markets to our operations.
Our operating rates improved in the first quarter and to support increased shipments we expect more of the same in the second quarter of 2012.
In addition in Q2 we'll be consuming lower-priced iron ore.
Each of these items is expected to significantly lower our operating costs.
Beyond that we're excited about the continued gains at the new #5 EAF at Butler Works and SunCoke Middletown's coke plant as well as the progress we've made at both Magnetation and AK Coal.
I want to take just a moment on each to provide you with a few details.
The #5 EAF at Butler Works is beginning to hit its stride.
Tap-to-tap times have continued to decline on all products and our productivity is greatly improving.
Now we just need one more thing: more business more orders that is so we can run longer campaigns and we're absolutely ready when that happens.
SunCoke Middletown is operating as expected and supplying AK Steel's Middletown blast furnace with a steady supply of coke.
In addition our energy self-sufficiency is being enhanced with the generation of about 45 megawatts of power from the heat recovery process.
This represents about 1/4 of the entire electricity needs of our Middletown plant.
Our long-term strategic investments that helped vertically integrate AK Steel are also making great progress.
Magnetation a joint venture in which AK Steel holds nearly a 50% interest had solid operating performance in Q1 and its second plant is on schedule for a startup of operations during the second quarter of 2012.
As a reminder Plant 1 has an annual production capacity of about 350 000 net tons of iron ore concentrate and Plant 2 will have a targeted capacity of about 1.1 million net tons.
Next on the agenda for Magnetation is the site selection and related permitting activities I should say for its pellet plant.
Once a site is chosen and construction of the plant is complete total concentrate production is expected to increase to 3.7 million net tons to feed a 3.3 million net ton pellet plant.
Said another way upon completion Magnetation's pellet plant is expected to consume the vast majority of the JV's production of iron concentrate.
Once the pellet plant is operational which is expected to be in 2016 or hopefully sooner AK Steel will benefit in 2 important ways: first by purchasing pellets from the JV at favorable prices; and second by receiving its share of net income from the JV itself.
It's clear to us that the Magnetation JV is going to be a real winner for AK Steel and with the eminent startup of Plant 2 and the pellet plant down the road this strategic investment will be a real game-changer for AK Steel.
Activities at AK Coal have been primarily focused on permitting and mine planning.
We're on or ahead of schedule on these and other matters.
In addition AK Coal has begun to purchase coal from other producers in the Somerset County area and supplied a small amount of coal to the SunCoke Middletown facility this past quarter.
So in summary our vertical integration activities are well underway.
We’ll look to complete them and enjoy the financial benefits associated with them just as quickly as we possibly can.
From backwards integrating to profitable growth strategies we remain very focused at AK Steel in terms of adding value for our shareholders.
That's certainly the case when it comes to innovation and new product development as well.
On the research and development front our team continues to make excellent progress in expanding our product capabilities in all of our products: carbon stainless and electrical steels to meet the future needs of our customers.
For example we continue to develop and commercialize our high-strength steel products to better serve the automotive market and we're working hard to expand our carbon and stainless steel offerings to serve the growing hydraulic fracturing and offshore energy markets.
In closing having bounced off the bottom I'm confident that our best days are ahead of us at AK Steel.
It's really a story of recovery and progress.
We expect a better second quarter compared to the first a better second half compared to the first half and a better year in 2012 compared to 2011.
You get the message.
And beyond that all of the things that we put into motion our vertical integration investments and related activities our product and process innovations coupled with an ongoing economic recovery in our served markets we think position us very well for future success.
Each and every day we'll continue to execute on behalf of our customers our shareholders and all of our constituents.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
Now we'd be happy to field your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Shneur Gershuni of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is kind of related to your comments.
You're kind of expecting a net income of the second quarter.
You're kind of a little bit more constructive and so forth.
I was wondering if you can sort of -- you separate it out for us with respect to how much is related specifically to continued strength in auto demand versus some of the other areas versus is it going to be driven more by the lower input cost? And maybe as part of the comments if you can talk to us about how pricing is shaping up for the quarter as to how you're thinking about it at this stage right now.
That's a very good question a very broad one.
Let me maybe bite off a couple of pieces of that.
I would offer the following: we're going to see improvement at the top line and at the bottom line.
Firstly we're going to ship more product we're going to make more product.
And when we make it the cost of making it are going to be less.
I think in terms of iron ore for example as Al and I were chatting before the call we're going to benefit to the tune of $15 to $20 a ton in terms of iron ore itself.
And other input costs should benefit us as well.
We expect pricing as I mentioned in my prepared remarks to firm.
We're always mindful and looking at opportunities to increase price.
We haven't been shy about that at AK Steel for a variety of reasons.
Our costs are high.
We think that market demand while stable will likely pick up just a bit as we move out into the year and the economy recovers.
And also as we look to May and June our expectation is that scrap prices will pick up by just a bit.
So for all of those reasons and again we'll have more details when we announce our actual guidance we're still very comfortable indicating that we expect to make money in Q2.
Research Division</strong> And you're current lead times kind of support kind of your view as to how everything is going to firm up and so forth? Indeed.
We're sold out on all products for April.
Our lead times for carbon products are out well into May and in some cases into June.
And so I think that's a positive as our lead times begin to extend a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
One last question if I may.
You gave some great color on the Magnetation.
One of your peers sort of talked about operating costs on their call.
I was wondering if you had some color about it.
Should we be thinking that your cost structure is going to kind of look similar to theirs and so forth? I was wondering if you have any detail on that.
I'm not sure who the peer is or what they said and I probably wouldn't want to go there.
I'd just say that we think given the process and the product we produce it is a very good product.
Our costs are quite competitive.
It is a private entity a JV we probably wouldn't share a lot of that without talking to our partner.
But we didn't get into this because we wanted to be high cost.
We got into this because we wanted to improve our cost structure and we're very comfortable with how Plant 1 is running.
I think when you add Plant 2 given its size and scale our cost will be even better.
But ultimately we need a competitively priced or cost pellet and that's down the road a couple of years or so.
We're going to be able to compete very very well when that happens.
It has certainly been an Achilles heel of our company and we're taking care of that.
It can't happen fast enough.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> The question is on Magnetation 2.
Can you provide us maybe a rough estimate of what kind of profit you might expect from that operation? And the reason why I'm asking is that I think Magnetation shows up under other income and that was a modest $1 million profit but there's probably some other things in there too.
So I just want to get a better clarification of the economics of that project.
Brian you're correct.
Magnetation does fall out under other income in there are foreign exchange gains and losses.
If you remember we had some foreign exchange gains in the fourth quarter which we did not replicate in the first quarter.
But you have to remember that Magnetation is certainly in a startup mode in that it has only the one unit operating right now.
And so its financial results certainly in the first quarter are not representative of what we're expecting longer term.
Research Division</strong> Do you have just the Magnetation number that you could provide? I'd just offer the following Brian that we would expect that the JV our interest in the JV will be accretive to our earnings for 2012.
We haven't given any more specific guidance than that just yet.
We probably wouldn't do so today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question on the minority interest I believe that relates to SunCoke.
There was a $5 million deduct.
Is that a fair run rate going forward for the remainder of the year? What that is of course Brian is under our variable interest entity accounting if you will.
We are required to consolidate SunCoke's operations into ours if you will.
And that in fact represents the first quarter's after tax in large measure their after-tax contribution to the net income.
We wouldn't want to forecast what SunCoke's operations will do going forward.
That represents the impact in the first quarter.
Brian just one last PS or postscript to the question with respect to Magnetation.
One of the reasons that we've been a little hesitant to give much guidance there is it does depend a great deal on what will happen to iron ore prices.
And as that market -- it's been a bit volatile as you know particularly in terms of the IODEX with what's going on in China of late and their demand levels fluctuating our income related to the Magnetation venture is a function then of what happens to iron ore prices.
So as that moves it will affect our income.
I think the most important takeaway hopefully for all of you is that when all of this is said and done when the facilities are built both the iron ore and coal we'll be roughly a 50% owner if you will of raw materials and a 50% taker.
That is a great hedge.
That's where we want to be.
We don't want to be 100% we don't want to be 0%.
And so it'll fluctuate over time we'll win either way.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim first question revolves around imports -- I'm sorry the export sales.
You said it was 15% growing by about 6%.
Can you talk about some of the drivers and end markets there and whether or not you can expect the growth to continue? The growth and the activity has really been related largely to our specialty steel products.
As I mentioned in my comments we've obviously seen some weakness particularly in the European environment.
We've been somewhat zoned out off Asia in particular China in light of a trade case that we continue to work our way through.
I think there are some activities that are going to have to sort of clear out over there to get this malaise out of the way in order for us to benefit a lot further.
But it has been 15% to 20% of our sales now for some period of time.
We'd love to get it back to that 20% level.
I think the opportunity will avail itself but again it's a challenging market environment offshore right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the second one is sort of actuarial kind of question but it is kind of the 800-pound elephant in the room.
Pension payments are supposed to be $300 million next year was the last guidance.
Any revisions in that guidance? And then I don't know if you guys have ever calculated this but what is the average age of your retiree? Last I checked I think you have 6 retirees for every 1 active.
If you fast-forward 10 years and use an actuarial table or something like that does it become 3 retirees to every 1 active? Can you give a little bit of color around sort of pension payments and then just sort of the average age or anything else actuarial about kind of the pension situation? I'll leave the numbers to Al.
This is Jim.
Let me just offer a couple of thoughts.
First off so many folks particularly in the analyst community or financial analysts tend to get concerned over legacy of our company.
I would tell you that it is a legacy a great pride that we take in honoring the obligations that those who preceded us have created here.
But for the people that came before myself and Al and others there's no AK Steel today.
So we owe it to them to continue to do everything we can to honor that legacy and we're proud to do so.
Our pension payments have been meaningful.
I think that contributions that is.
We noted in a release earlier today as we're accelerating the balance of this year's contribution that we're now -- we've done our $170 million this year that's needed and we're up to about $1.5 billion since 2005.
So that's a large number.
I think we've guided that we're roughly $300 million next year.
Look we've been in discussion with the powers that be the legislators in our country to make sure they know that we are fighting the good fight doing all the right things.
But that pension relief in light of what's happened to interest rates and investment returns would make enormously good sense for those of us who have defined benefit pension plans.
We have heard a number of numbers.
It could be very meaningful to us perhaps as much as $100 million impact.
Those numbers aren't final and don't hold me to them but it could have a meaningful impact to us next year.
We're committed to make the necessary contributions we need to make to let the money work with any kind of normal returns with any kind of more typical interest rates which is part of the pusher behind some pension relief legislation the average interest rates in calculating contributions that will be in a good shape.
We do have a large number of retirees.
That number has been declining.
We have importantly frozen all of our DB plans all of them and those obligations are declining over time.
But it's a function of 2 things of course: it's the assets and the liabilities.
Al can speak to the sensitivity of the liability but for every quarter percent move in the discount rate I believe it's a $75 million reduction in the liability.
So this is an issue that we can focus on others can focus on.
I’ve probably spoken more about it than I need to but it's important to educate you that we're managing it we're managing it well and we're managing it proudly.
Brett I would just say just adding to Jim's comments that our pension contributions since 2005 have represented between $110 million to $250 million a year.
Clearly 2013 would represent a high watermark but we've consistently indicated certainly in the past 9 years that this was not an obligation that grew up overnight it won't be necessarily solved overnight.
Jim's point with respect to the discount rate is appropriate.
100-basis-point move is $300 million in liabilities.
But again I think it's one of those things we've addressed prudently both on the side of locking and freezing benefits but also contributing in a very aggressive way that's positioned us very very well for the future.
Our next question comes from Richard Garchitorena of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So my first question you mentioned in your comments that the working capital drawdown in Q1 was a function of increasing inventories ahead of Q2.
Is that referring to raw material inventories i.e.
iron ore? And if so does that mean that the improvement in cost in Q2 could be sustainable into Q3 even though we've seen IODEX prices tick up in the last couple weeks? Well Richard the increase in raw materials which was about $200 million was really across-the-board.
Raw materials were part of that but also we had an increase in whip and finished if you will positioning ourselves for increased shipments in the second quarter.
In addition we had an increase of accounts receivable because our shipments were better priced in the first quarter offset somewhat by payables.
We would expect actually in the second quarter to probably see an increase in -- a further increase in working capital not anywhere near as large as last year's increase which was about $99 million and then to see that number drop in the second half of the year.
But again I think we're very well positioned from a working capital perspective to take advantage of opportunities in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
And then my second question you do mention that you do see an improving second half of 2012.
What do you see in terms of risks to this view because some of the other producers out there may be more cautious heading into the second quarter and second half? So is it import situation or do you -- is raw materials a potential risk? What keeps you guys up at night today? Oh lots of things keep us up Richard.
But I would just say a couple of things.
First off again rather than sort of talk generalities I'm not sure what other producers and I'm not sure what other products and markets they serve and how focused they are domestically and so forth.
One of the things to keep in mind we continue to grow at AK Steel our percentage of contract business which moves us farther and farther away from the spot market.
Again we want to participate in the spot market there's a place at the table for important business with some of those folks particularly some of the programs that we're into with them.
But it doesn't do us -- we've built our business.
We've invested in our lines and in our company to really support value-added high-end products very difficult applications to make.
That's not typically the characteristics that you'd define the spot market with.
So our spot market was probably down to 35% or something like that shipments in the first quarter kind of mid 60s contract business that's up probably 10 percentage points from where we were a year ago at this time.
So that's a good thing.
As far as risk to the second half again we're continuing to expect that the economy will slowly but gradually continue improve here and abroad.
There obviously has been and we've been watching it carefully and we're concerned about increasing imports particularly of flat-rolled products that's come in.
The increased capacity we'll see what happens there.
By and large that's not playing with us in some of the high-end markets just yet as a lot of that still has to get qualified.
But -- and over time I think that the market will find a home for all of that.
But I think one of the reasons that the steel industry's recovery -- our recovery among others has lagged a bit is because of the increased capacity.
We don't need it now.
It's simply not necessary.
When you're running your operations at 80% of capacity and you have high fixed costs as we do and others do you really need to get beyond that.
So eventually we'll need a real sustained economic recovery and we'll need increased volume.
In the meantime we'll keep chugging along here we'll keep improving.
We'll be doing everything we can to control those things we can control.
But it's a number of those things that are outside of our control to your question of what keeps me up at night.
It's the economy it's input costs it's the actions of our competitors new and old and other things shocks to the system things that I just can't control that do bother me.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of more questions on Magnetation specifically on the Plant 2 startup in the next quarter here.
What is generally the commissioning time for a Magnetation plant and do you expect any kind of unusual startup charges? Candidly that's probably not my area of expertise I'll just submit that right offhand.
But I would say that something of this sort would typically be up in a few months.
We have a very skilled management team up there led by Larry Lehtinen and his group.
They've had enormous success not only with Magnetation but in the past.
So I fully expect that late third quarter certainly by the end of the year we'll be in great shape.
The key is that this is not new technology it's proven technology.
We already have one plant up and running.
The second one's a bit larger but we're not at all concerned about startup.
Research Division</strong> And would you expect it to break even by the end of this year? Again what we've said is we'll be accretive.
This will make us even more money as the year goes on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the last call you talked about taking an outage at Ashland in the third quarter and possibly one at Middletown in the fourth quarter.
Is that still the plan? We continue to monitor those things Evan and we only take them when we need them.
Right now I would say that we are planning to take an outage in the third quarter.
The size and scope of that to be determined.
It could be a meaningful one though.
Our challenge I think is to continue to meet the needs of our customers over the long run while doing these outages only when they're absolutely essential for the equipment.
We think that makes sense to do in the third quarter.
It's another one of the reasons why we'll continue to build inventories a little bit in advance of that so that we serve our customers well.
But it could be a $20 million $25 million outage in Q3 much smaller one perhaps in the $10 million variety in the fourth quarter order of magnitude Ashland in Q3 and Middletown in Q4.
That would also position us I would tell you exceptionally well going into 2013 as the economy continues to gather steam.
Our next question comes from David Gagliano of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to turn to -- just turn to liquidity and use this as an opportunity to address some of the issues that we still hear about fairly frequently even after the debt deal.
So my question is based on the current environment what you know about your business today do you think you'll need to tap into the capital markets again in 2012 to shore up your liquidity position? Well David as you know we finished the quarter with $883 million of liquidity at the end of the quarter.
Clearly a very robust liquidity position as solid as we've had for a long long time.
Again I think our belief with respect to the capital markets is we've addressed the capital markets issue this year with what we thought was a very successful opportunity in terms of getting into the bond market with a transaction that not only raised very reasonably priced funds but also without any covenants that won't restrict us going forward.
Again we believe we've addressed the liquidity issue in a very direct and forthright manner which is beneficial to all of our stakeholders.
And as you go through the year if you will we think again based on what we know today that our liquidity position should remain very very robust for the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just my second question.
Electrical steel obviously an important driver within your business but visibility's fairly low.
I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit of information with regards to the profitability of that business.
Specifically could you tell us what the profit per ton is on average for your electrical steel business at the moment? Dave I would tell you I don't think that's good information to share from a competitive standpoint.
It has been a good business for us.
It's obviously less profitable in this current environment as we're experiencing some of the challenges both from a NAFTA and particularly from an international standpoint.
So it's been a key driver it's been an important driver of our success.
It's been a positive contributor certainly to our margins.
But we've really never characterized that and I don't think we want to begin to get into that at this point in time.
But we thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when I look at shipments in the first quarter as you had projected and telegraphed they were down year-over-year.
Do you expect -- I mean and I guess a lot of that has to do with the fact that you've built some inventories over that time frame you said automotive shipments were up 20% in the first quarter.
Do you expect in the second quarter that your shipment trends will be more reflective of the steel market as a whole? Or do you think you'll still be running a negative shipment number year-over-year? Let me just offer a couple of thoughts Luke.
First off in terms of shipments being down in the first quarter compared to 4Q and a year ago several reasons you've hit on one.
I would say the other is really unattractive spot market pricing and as our outlook was for higher prices to come we'd rather ship it later and capture those higher prices particularly in the carbon steel arena.
But the other key driver as you've touched on here is the stronger demand from automotive.
They pulled more than we thought during Q1.
As I mentioned Q1 was our best automotive shipment quarter in nearly 4 years.
And we've also in light of that and expected increases in automotive we've had to support the higher second quarter shipments and second half shipments here so that is consuming some things.
I don't know that we'd give guidance now relative to last year.
I would say we expect to have a much better quarter not just on automotive but on overall shipments and probably a pattern of where we've been in recent years for the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
The second question your shipments to automotive are up I think quite a bit more than automotive production as a whole.
Can you talk about whether you think you're gaining share in automotive number one.
And then also is that -- if you are is that one of the factors that causes you to be more optimistic on the second half relative to the first? We hope we're gaining a bit of share.
We're growing with customers who like what we do.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we continue to get high marks.
And I think we want to continue to associate with those people who put value into things that we bring to the table which is far more than just a price equation.
There will be those who will always challenge us on price that's the market.
But indeed we've been growing and we're growing with those that are growing.
For example we're delighted to see the recent BMW expansion they're one of many important automotive customers producing a variety of wonderful products in South Carolina.
We're part of the X35 and X6 vehicles made there.
Wonderful part about that is the vehicles are made in America some are consumed here and many of them are exported to all parts of the world.
And now they've announced the X4 Sports Activity Coupe we're going to be on that.
And look when we make things in America right when America makes things it makes America stronger and it certainly helps AK Steel.
So yes indeed we're growing with those that are growing in this country including the domestics and the transplants and if we're taking market share that's great.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> I understand that from what you said that you have no real major labor contracts coming up except at Butler.
But some of your major competitors who sell to the same automotive market that you do have contracts that expire at the end of August.
My understanding is that the union's not going to start negotiating until June but have you heard anything from any of your customers who might be little concerned and might want to protect themselves by maybe buying a little more from you guys in the fall? We really haven't heard much about that yet Chuck in all candor.
I suspect that the dialogue will pick up a bit.
There's some saber-rattling typically on both sides as the summer approaches and we haven't seen anything along the lines of double booking or insurance bets at this point in time.
That's not really what we see driving our better second quarter and second half in automotive.
It's more fundamentals.
Having said that we'll be well prepared to help our good customers if they run into a situation of need.
Inc.</strong> Have you heard anything scuttlebutt if you will about the success of some of your new competitors like ThyssenKrupp in getting their product approved? I think that everything we hear is that they're still in a ramp-up and fix-it mode that they are indeed bringing more product to market.
Most of that has been in the spot market.
I think they remain in qualifications although they're getting through in some areas.
We're meeting them in the market a bit more but I think they're still a ways off from really being fully qualified and seeing us face-to-face in a number of areas.
It's going to be interesting to see what happens of course in light of their sale of the stainless unit or 70% of it to Inoxum appears to be primarily related to the roll-up consolidation of stainless business in Europe yet to really understand what that will mean to America.
On the carbon side we've never quite been able to ascertain how or if they'll get any sort of return on their investment particularly in the magnitude of the dollars that have been spent.
Having said that they're here we're dealing with it we've dealt with others before.
Eventually there will be a home for them as the market recovers right now.
It could get a little sloppy.
Our next question comes from Michelle Applebaum of Steel Market Intelligence.
I'm looking forward to your profit next quarter.
Indeed we are as well.
Thought we were past all the red ink guys.
It's too good to be true.
So I didn't hear it and if it was said I apologize profusely.
Contract price rollover going into the April 1 year up or down? In terms of carbon contract deals that had been coming up for renewal we have been obtaining higher base prices just along the lines of moving from red ink to black ink.
It's important that we do that.
We're very focused this year whether it's in the carbon part of our business or stainless or electrical on enhancing margins and that goes to markets to products to customers.
And we're doing it in the case of carbon through a combination of higher base prices and continuing to implement variable pricing mechanisms that allow us the opportunity to recover high steel making input cost.
Our steelmaking input cost cost for things like iron ore and coal and coke and scrap were up $100 million now in the first quarter of this year.
I mean you'd think Michelle that we're at a point now where most of that's behind us.
I think that's going to start turning and we've indicated here in the second quarter we'll be $15 to $20 a ton just on iron ore alone better.
But we still got smacked in the face on that.
So it's all about expanding margins.
It can't just come at the expense of our customers.
We're also doing everything we can to control our costs.
We'll start making some great quality and a lot of it and we need a few more orders to make that happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm sorry.
You said that they've -- that the renegotiations happened but -- so the April 1 model year Japanese fiscal year those contracts are up or higher? They're at a higher price than what was rolled over in March 31? Yes I wouldn't characterize it as one group or another.
I just say that as we have contracts expire throughout the year some renew January 1 some are April 1 some are at other points throughout the year.
To date we've been successful in garnering higher base price increases wherever possible and we'll expect to continue to do that with our other contract business going forward.
Our next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of Longbow Research.
I guess I just had a question on the stainless side.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about what you're seeing as far as order patterns and whatnot? The way you guys report numbers stainless electrical it is fairly down year-on-year.
Is that mainly the electrical or is -- what are you seeing on the stainless side? I would say electrical is off a bit and we expect it to be flat as we look out pretty much year-over-year.
Just as a reminder and may be a briefing for those of you who may not be as familiar as others for AK Steel the stainless steel market is really a variety of market segments.
For example it's the high temperature automotive exhaust market that's our 400 series products.
And candidly that's quite strong now due to the robust nature of the automotive market that we've been speaking of.
It's also commodity 300 series stainless which we're not a huge player and that's held fairly steady and that market tends to depend greatly on the direction of nickel prices which have been declining of late.
And then there's our specialty grade products [indiscernible] and other parts that are produced at our Coshocton plant and those are really remaining in pretty high demand as well.
So it really does vary depending on which aspect of stainless but stainless overall has been pretty good.
For us electrical has been down a bit.
Our next question comes from Chris Olin of Cleveland Research.
Just one more question on the domestic landscape.
There has been some speculation within the channel regarding some of the weaker steel mills possibly closing some capacity this year with liquidity constraints and the loss of some baseload volumes.
I was just curious if you see any benefit associated with your market share from customers moving away from these weaker mills or do you have any kind of projections on -- do you see this as a possible catalyst for the summer? Well I'd be cautious in how I respond.
I want to say from your lips to God's ears but I won't say that.
We've all seen mills get in trouble before only to find additional sources of funding and hang around a bit longer.
And we don't wish any of our competitors ill will.
Well we wish them well.
Obviously they're attempting to make things in America and create jobs and that's all good.
Having said that to your specific question we stand at the ready to capitalize.
We would love to run at higher operating rates.
We think we can certainly help a number of our current customers and other customers meet their needs.
We have not seen anything yet.
I think we've seen some starts and stops at one particular entity but they've got some funding here recently and are going again.
So no we haven't seen anything in any great detail.
We wouldn't want to opine in any way at this point as to what all that foretells.
We'll see it and we'll watch it as you do.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just didn't really get clear on the Q2 mix if it was going to improve.
If you could talk to us a little bit more about the lineup there? So you talked about volumes improving and price improving is that from better mix? Is that from any -- could you give us a little bit more detail there please? Generally Timna the second quarter mix is usually a little leaner if you will in terms of a little less value-added.
Like I said we haven't given specific guidance on that but generally speaking the first quarter represents a somewhat higher value-added mix.
Less hot-rolled shipments we do get generally speaking a few more hot-rolled shipments as a proportion of total shipments in the second quarter.
But overall our overall shipments will be higher as Jim indicated earlier.
I think the other thing again on the cost side Timna as I mentioned it's a combination of lower input costs coupled with higher operating rates.
In the first quarter we were probably in the lower 80 percentile range.
We're going to be in the mid-80s here in the second quarter.
That helps.
It's still not where we want to be.
Which would be 90s or full out.
But directionally that's a good guide us well.
So we should benefit from operating costs from input costs and from more volume generally.
We're not looking for dramatic increases in pricing if at all but we'll keep pushing that envelope again to make sure that we're generating the kind of margins and returns that we need to.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my other question if I could please is I'm just trying to understand when you talk about the high strength -- high strength steel focus in R&amp;D a lot of the other mills have been talking also about this and the opportunities for lightweighting vehicles are well known and the aluminum guys are talking about it.
But how do you move into that area without making the big investments that we hear other companies making? We have a variety of relationships around the world.
We've had one that's been a long-standing one with JFE which is the successor to Kawasaki and NKK where we share technology in terms of sort of the recipe if you will.
We're looking at what we can do with what we have currently.
And where we would need to spend dollars and target those dollars.
But I want to make sure that you realize and others realize that we're not just looking backwards.
We're not just trying to integrate from a vertical standpoint that we're also very much looking forward.
Some of that may require some capital some of it may not.
But we've put our faith and confidence into our highly skilled research group.
They're making great progress and I think we're going to try and do some things that tend to leapfrog the current technology to not just match but to get ahead of what's out there.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just also about end markets for the second quarter.
Do you -- is there another market that could possibly pick up the slack if automotive doesn't continue to grow as expected or if you guys don't take the expected share in automotive? We can have pretty good visibility at this point in time into the automotive market.
I think the only thing that concerned us maybe up until the last day or so was the issue with the resin problem which by and large has subsided.
I think most of our customers are telling us that if anything that's likely to be a bigger challenge for the European auto producers than America.
There may be some trickle over effect here but we don't look for that to be a great concern other than that.
Again most of the analysts I think we came into the year with an estimated forecast of 13.5 million to 14 million units in autos.
I think they've now been raised to 14 million to 14.5 million.
Who knows that may be light as well.
And I would just put an asterisk by that but that's still about 3 million units annually shy of the all-time record.
So there's still a long way to go still a lot of upside potential.
The age of the fleet is I don't know 10 years or something now.
More people are entering the driving age.
You've got people living longer.
Yes all kinds of reasons why we begin to get even more excited about what's going on with automotive over the long term.
Could there be something in the second quarter that might derail that? Again we have pretty good pipeline into their pool rates and they to us and we don't see a lot of changes there.
Again if something would change there we'd have to make the decision as we always do as to whether we take more tons into a rather full spot market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question's for Al it's a follow-up on Dave's question from earlier about pension payments.
So we also don't calculate that AK would have to access capital markets again in 2012.
But in 2013 with pension contributions being as they're expected to be now remaining CapEx payments from Magnetation it may need -- it may be more likely that AK may have to seek liquidity elsewhere.
And I was wondering from a bigger picture perspective what does the company view as its priorities -- or its preferences in terms of raising liquidity if it's necessary? Would it be a cut in CapEx? Would it be the capital markets or -- how do you guys think about that over the next 3 years as opposed to just the immediate 2012? Justine great question.
Again it's that's the kind of thing that we as a management team and our board look at very carefully.
Of course underlying all of this is we're not looking to finance our way out of liquidity challenges or anything else.
We're looking to do it the old-fashioned way generate positive cash flow generate significantly improved EBITDA.
So much will depend in terms of whether or not we have a need and the extent of that need and the timing of that need on our EBITDA generation.
So I'll start with that beyond that I really would not look to speak here on behalf of the board as to whether there would be a capital raise and if so what it might be.
I think you can look at our history.
Our board has been extraordinarily judicious as to when we have raised capital particularly with respect to our shareholders.
We have not diluted their interest.
They've hung in there with us now for many years as we have repaired recovered gone through the recession coming out of it and looked to improve things.
And so we'll have more specificities as we know them but that's what I'd have for you today.
Our final question comes from Mark Parr of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I don't know you may have mentioned this Jim or Al.
Did you talk at all about how much of your contract to mix now has raw material pass-through in it? No what we've indicated in our public filings Mark is about 90% of our contract mix has some component of a pass-through of some part of raw material costs so to speak.
In other words whether we scrap natural gas iron ore or some combination thereof.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you haven't talked about or given any update as far as how much of the iron ore sensitivity is covered.
Is that fair? No it hasn't.
But I would say that we're recovering more and more that we've had good traction in terms of our negotiations particularly with our auto producers that have provided us additional cover with respect to iron ore costs and in addition to Magnetation.
We feel very good about how we've positioned ourselves strategically regarding those cost changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask one other question on mix is there any mix change in your second quarter guidance? I mean are you looking for hot-rolled to be a slightly lower mix in the second quarter than it was in the first quarter? I think quite the contrary.
I think it'll be up just a little bit.
I think carbon shipments will be higher.
We'll look for a little bit better stainless hopefully.
And electrical I think as we said is flat.
So the mix in terms of carbon and specialty will shift a bit more towards the carbon side of the equation including a bit more in the spot market.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Some very good questions today from all of our listeners.
We want to thank you for those.
We are indeed well into the second quarter and look forward to having all of you join us a quarter from now.
Again as I mentioned earlier the story at AK Steel is one of recovery and progress.
From 4Q to 1Q we're improving.
From first quarter to second quarter we expect to improve second half to first half of this year improvement and so on and so forth.
That's what we're doing as a management team and as a board at AK Steel.
We're delighted to do so every day on behalf of all of our constituents.
Once again I want to thank you for joining us today and for your ongoing interest in AK Steel.
Have a great day and a better tomorrow.
Bye for now.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations; and Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business and following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our second quarter 2012 financial results.
And together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that I'll turn it over to Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thanks very much Al.
Good morning everyone and thanks to each of you for joining us on today's call.
Excluding the deferred tax asset valuation allowance which Roger will cover in some detail in a moment AK Steel's second quarter 2012 results represented a significant improvement compared to our first quarter of this year performance as we increased our operating profit to $42 per ton in Q2 compared to only $3 per ton in Q1.
In many respects it was our best quarter since the second quarter of 2011 when we generated an operating profit of $46 per ton.
Quarter-over-quarter EBITDA nearly doubled as we generated EBITDA of about $88 million for Q2 compared to about $48 million for Q1 of 2012.
Thanks to strong cost and outstanding quality performances we exceeded our earnings guidance for Q2 again excluding the charge for the deferred tax asset allowance.
Despite the challenges of a sluggish domestic and foreign economies and their impacts on our shipment volumes and selling prices at AK Steel we remain keenly focused on 3 things: first taking care of our people and keeping them safe; second serving our customers better than any other steelmaker and providing them with the best possible quality steel products available anywhere; and third creating long-term value for our shareholders.
This has been our approach and going forward it will continue to be our focus.
So with those things in mind let me take a moment to comment briefly on how well we're performing on each objective.
Starting with safety.
On the employee safety front we continue to educate equip and enforce our safety program with the finest workforce in the steel industry.
For all of 2011 our safety performance results in terms of OSHA recordable injuries led the steel industry by a factor of 6x.
And through the first half of 2012 our safety performance has actually improved by about 10%.
These results are a credit to all of our employees and I commend them for making safety their highest priority.
During the quarter AK Steel's Coshocton Works received a special award for safety from the state of Ohio for operating nearly 3 million man-hours from February of 2008 through August of last year without a single lost-time injury.
Also during the quarter AK Tube's Walbridge Ohio plant was honored for its astounding safety performance.
It received the 100% Award for Safety from Ohio for operating the entire year 2011 without any lost-time injuries or illnesses.
These are marvelous achievements and I congratulate the men and women of Coshocton and AK Tube Walbridge.
We will continue to do everything we can to ensure the safety of our employees and our contractors who work on our property each and every day.
Speaking of our employees I'm happy to report that just last week we reached an early agreement on a new 4-year labor contract with our Butler Works employees represented by the United Auto Workers.
This new agreement provides a competitive and flexible labor contract for the company and for our Butler Works employees.
I might add that we have no other labor agreements expiring in 2012.
Our next expiring contract is on April 1 2013 with the UAW representing our Coshocton Works plant.
May I also take just a moment to comment on AK Steel retirees as we continue to meet our legacy obligations to them.
During Q2 to complete our required pension funding obligations for 2012 we contributed $142 million to the pension trust.
This brings our full year 2012 pension contributions to $170 million.
In addition it brings our total contributions to the pension trust since the year 2005 to $1.5 billion.
As we look out to 2013 due to a provision that was included in the recently passed transportation bill our required 2013 minimum contribution will be lower by about $100 million.
That is instead of $300 million we'll now plan to contribute approximately $200 million.
To be clear this legislation has no impact on the discount rate utilized to calculate the pension liability on our books or on our intent to fully fund that pension liability.
As in the past our pension liability will continue to be determined by applying the appropriate discount rate at the end of each calendar year.
The new legislation is entirely directed towards stabilizing how pension funding is calculated.
In determining future pension funding requirements companies such as AK Steel with defined benefit pension plans will apply an interest rate that uses a 25-year averaging method in determining the funding amount.
We applaud the leadership of the U.S.
House of Representatives and the Senate for recognizing the need to fix this and for getting the job done.
Moving from our employees and retirees to our customers.
Let me provide you with updates on our product quality and customer satisfaction.
During the first half of 2012 our internal quality measures were simply superb.
Our total company performances for internal rejections and retreated products each set new company records for the second quarter and for the first half of 2012.
Moving from internal to external quality measures our customers also liked very much what they were seeing from us and what we were doing for them in the second quarter.
We appreciate the business we enjoy from all of our customers and one of those customers Chrysler Corporation chose to honor AK Steel during the second quarter with its Metallic Supplier of the Year Award.
In fact we understand that we were the only metallic supplier worldwide to receive this award on the basis of our quality delivery cost and service.
We thank our friends at Chrysler for this very prestigious honor.
And on a broader basis once again AK Steel fared very well in the Jacobson independent survey of our carbon and specialty steel customers.
For the second quarter of 2012 AK Steel received the following rankings from our carbon steel customers: #1 in customer service; #1 in quality; and #1 in on-time delivery.
These performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our carbon market among our integrated competitors.
And on the specialty steel front AK Steel received high marks as well including a #1 ranking in customer service and a #1 ranking in quality which taken together resulted in a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction from our specialty steel customers as well.
These outstanding performances in service to our great customers happened because of a terrific effort and attention to detail.
They're the result of our employees going above and beyond expectations and I congratulate all of our employees on making and finishing great quality steel keeping our customers happy and staying safe in the process.
While we're on the subject of customers let me take a few moments to provide some insights on what we're seeing in the markets that we serve.
As most of you know AK Steel is unique among its peers in the steel business especially those in the United States.
Utilizing both blast furnace and electric arc furnace technology we manufacture a high value-added well-diversified product mix of carbon stainless and electrical steels to our customers in the U.S.
and abroad.
In terms of the carbon steel market we continue to see strength from our automotive customers.
Our automotive customers are experiencing higher sales and production which is the driving force behind increased steel shipments of both our carbon and autochrome stainless steels.
At AK Steel our direct shipments to automotive customers increased by about 20% for the first half of 2012 as compared to the first half of 2011.
In the second quarter of this year light-vehicle sales were at their highest level since the second quarter of 2008.
And after a pause in the third quarter for traditional maintenance shutdowns which by the way are much shorter this year than in recent years we expect automotive production and sales to continue to remain quite strong for the balance of this year.
Automotive inventories remain in good shape as well at the end of June.
Light-vehicle inventories of domestically produced vehicles stood at some 61 days which is consistent with recent historical levels.
Speaking of inventory levels let me briefly comment on inventories at service centers.
Historically carbon flat-rolled inventories at service centers have averaged about 2.4 months of supply on hand.
Although distributor shipments declined somewhat in June seasonally adjusted inventory levels as of June 30 stood at 2.5 months on hand essentially in line with historical levels.
That said I think it's fair to say that service center buyers continue to exhibit a cautious buying mood.
Oversupply relative to demand; the actions of now bankrupt RG Steel and for-sale TK Alabama; and an increase of imported flat-rolled steel products have all led to a decline in selling prices late in the second quarter in the United States.
The other large market that we serve is the infrastructure and manufacturing or what we refer to as the I&amp;M market which includes appliance and HVAC manufacturers as well as other steel-consuming industries.
I&amp;M activity has been rather uneventful as appliance and HVAC customers continue to see relatively flat demand.
As with the electrical steel market we really need a pickup in the construction markets to spark increased appliance and HVAC activity.
With that let me move from carbon steel to specialty steels.
Our specialty steel products serving the automotive market were in particularly strong demand during the second quarter and we expect solid demand to continue in the third quarter as well.
Commodity 300 series stainless steel sales increased as service centers slowly began to replenish diminished inventory levels.
However once again imports of commodity stainless especially from China increased in the second quarter to the highest level seen in the past year.
We expect more of the same in Q3 on the commodity stainless product.
Demand for our 400 series stainless steel used in automotive exhaust applications was strong as customers replenished inventories and as auto builds increased.
As a matter of fact we set a new quarterly record for our company for autochrome shipments to NAFTA customers in Q2.
Our specialty stainless steel shipments that is products that we produce at our Coshocton Works which include specialty applications for appliance and industrial manufacturers saw a nice increase in Q2 and we expect similarly strong shipment levels to these markets in Q3.
Historically stainless steel service center inventories have averaged about 3.5 months of supply on hand.
That compared to a seasonally adjusted figure of some 2.8 months of supply on hand at the end of June.
Similar to carbon flat-rolled steel we're closely monitoring the recent decline in June distributor shipments for stainless steel.
And finally regarding grain-oriented electrical steels although our first half 2012 shipments are down compared to the year-ago first half we did experience a slight increase in second quarter 2012 shipments compared to the first quarter shipments of this year.
Most of our electrical steel growth has come in the NAFTA market as world economies most notably Europe slowed and that resulted in increased pricing pressure on our electrical steel products in the second quarter.
For Q3 we look for those trends to continue with reduced international shipments largely offset by higher shipments to our NAFTA customers.
Let me offer just one other comment on electrical steel.
During the second quarter the World Trade Organization concluded that China had no legal basis to impose antidumping and countervailing duties on imports of grain-oriented electrical steel from the U.S.
beginning in December of 2009.
We applaud the WTO decision and we're grateful to United States Trade Representative Ron Kirk and his staff for their efforts to defend the rights of U.S.
manufacturers on this important matter.
As one of the largest and most technologically advanced producers of grain-oriented electrical steels we are helping to meet the needs of the developing world for efficient power generation transmission and distribution.
And we're delighted that the WTO agreed with us that there was no basis for the imposition of tariffs on our GOES steel sold in China.
However China has the right to appeal the WTO decision to the WTO Appellate Body.
They have chosen to do so.
As a result the tariffs will remain in effect during the appeal process.
I should add that since the nearly 20% tariffs were imposed against AK Steel significant new electrical steel capacity has come online in China and elsewhere in the world.
Before turning it over to Roger for a review of our financials let me briefly comment on the third major focus at our company: creating long-term value for our shareholders.
Everything we do everything do at AK Steel from the shop floors to the executive offices is intended to add value both in our products and in particular for our owners.
In recent years we felt the pain and so have our shareholders as lower shipments and prices as well as higher steelmaking input costs have squeezed our profits and our cash flow.
Every day we utilize a continuous improvement approach and the results of that approach are evident in our industry-leading safety quality and productivity performances.
All of this is in an effort to improve our top line that is optimize our sales portfolio; to improve our cost position by investing to become more vertically integrated; and of course to improve our bottom line by generating the kind of earnings and cash flow to sustain and to grow the company and to enhance value for our shareholders over the long term.
Recently given the difficult near-term market conditions facing our industry and the company's ongoing capital requirements AK Steel's Board of Directors decided that it was appropriate to suspend the payment of our dividend.
The board concluded that it was in the best long-term interest of our shareholders at this time to put the funds to use for longer-term purposes.
Going forward the board will continue to review this subject on a regular basis.
Speaking of rewarding shareholders over the long term we're confident that AK Steel's strategy of serving the most demanding customers and the toughest product applications in the most difficult markets is the right strategy and that it will serve the company and our shareholders well over the course of the cycle.
Our product offerings are some of the highest-quality value-added carbon stainless and electrical steel products available anywhere in the world.
And that's great but we need to expand our margins.
For some time we've recognized the need to lower our steelmaking input cost to produce a more cost-competitive carbon slab and hot band and we're very hard at work to make that happen just as quickly as we can.
I'm delighted with the excellent progress that we're making in our long-term strategic initiatives of securing 50% of our iron ore pellet and coal needs.
AK Coal has filed for a permit to construct and operate its initial underground mine.
Progress continues on the mine plan as well which will position us well in the years to come.
We continue to accelerate our plans at AK Coal and we're making solid progress towards a goal of commencing mining activities in the first half of 2013.
Some of you have inquired about our expected cost of production at AK Coal.
Let me simply say that when operational we expect to produce low-vol coal that is coal that has been washed and is ready for coking at a cost that's substantially below the current market price for low-vol coal.
We're also accelerating progress at Magnetation.
Magnetation had an excellent start-up of its second concentrate plant following a vertical start-up and they expect to be fully ramped up in August which is just terrific.
I think it's important for me to point out that production and sale of the iron ore concentrate from Magnetation's 2 concentrate plants will continue to serve as a hedge against our iron ore pellet purchases since the concentrate is sold for the most part at a price that's indexed to the IODEX.
At Magnetation the next big thing if you will is the site selection and construction of the pellet plant.
Depending on how long it takes to obtain the pellet plant permits and secure the equipment there is a potential for us to start up the pellet plant in late 2014 which is nearly 2 years ahead of our original schedule.
Magnetation has already made a permit application for one potential site and continues to explore others.
In addition the first equipment order for the pellet indurating furnace has been placed with equipment delivery scheduled to be complete within 18 months.
In a moment Roger will give you the details on the timing of our cash contributions to support Magnetation's growth.
But suffice it to say that I'm very excited that we're well ahead of schedule for both the Magnetation and AK Coal projects.
And that's because each of these investments has the potential to be a real game-changer for AK Steel as we enhance our self-sufficiency and improve our competitive cost positions for the long term.
Improving our cost competitiveness is essential to improving our earnings and cash flow.
That said eventually we need a real sustained economic recovery characterized by increased demand higher shipments and improved selling prices increased manufacturing and increased consumption both here and abroad.
Having experienced many economic downturns in the past our team knows that recovery will come sooner or later but we can't control exactly when that will occur.
And in the meantime we're controlling those things that we can and we're executing our strategy confident that AK Steel is well positioned to continue to compete and to win and we will be in an even better position to do so in the days ahead.
Thank you all for your attention.
Now for some additional financial details here is Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported adjusted net income of $11.4 million or $0.10 per share for the second quarter of 2012.
Our adjusted net income exceeded our guidance of $0.04 to $0.06 per share and excludes a noncash valuation allowance adjustment of $736 million related to a portion of our deferred tax asset.
Our second quarter adjusted results also represent an improvement over our first quarter of 2012 results of a net loss of $11.8 million or $0.11 per share.
While accounting rules required us to take this charge this valuation allowance does not impact our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits in the future to reduce cash tax payments.
I also want to stress that this charge is noncash.
And I would note that our net operating loss carryforwards do not begin to expire until the year 2023 and beyond with the majority of the NOLs expiring between the years 2028 and 2031.
Shipments for the second quarter totaled 1 335 800 tons an increase of about 10 000 tons compared to the first quarter of 2012 shipments.
Our average selling price for the second quarter was $1 152 per ton or approximately $14 per ton above the first quarter reflecting a modest improvement and slightly favorable to our guidance.
Revenues for the second quarter totaled $1 538 000 000 another slight improvement compared to the prior quarter.
Sales outside of the U.S.
totaled approximately $224 million for the quarter.
This represented about 15% of our sales for the second quarter and was comparable to the prior quarter.
In the second quarter we benefited from a LIFO credit of $18.3 million which compares to a LIFO credit of $12.4 million in the first quarter.
This increase is primarily the result of lower raw material and energy costs.
In terms of income from operations we achieved an operating profit of $56.7 million or $42 per ton for the second quarter of 2012 which as Jim mentioned is a substantial improvement over our operating profit of $4.1 million or $3 per ton for the first quarter of 2012.
Moving to our results for the 6 months of 2012 revenues for the first half were slightly more than $3 billion compared to approximately $3.4 billion in the first half of 2011.
Sales outside of the United States totaled $450 million for the first 6 months which represented about 15% of our revenues roughly equal to the percent for the same period during 2011.
Shipments for the first 6 months of 2012 were 2 661 700 tons a 9% decrease compared to the first 6 months of 2011 reflective of a tougher domestic and global marketplace.
Our average selling price for the first half of 2012 was $1 145 per ton virtually identical to the first half of last year.
And at the bottom line for the first 6 months of 2012 we reported an adjusted net loss of $400 000.
So thus we essentially delivered breakeven results which equated to less -- which equated to a loss of less than $0.01 per diluted share.
Turning for a moment to the balance sheet.
Through the first half of 2012 our capital investments totaled $17.9 million.
Our outlook for capital investments for the year 2012 is estimated to be approximately $100 million plus approximately $50 million in payments for our strategic investments in Magnetation and AK Coal.
As Jim mentioned we are pleased that both of these investments are progressing ahead of schedule.
However the expedited ramp-ups will likely result in some acceleration of a portion of our planned investments in both of these strategic initiatives and more importantly a corresponding acceleration of the cost reduction benefits of these investments as well.
On the iron ore front the remaining investment of $48 million related to Phase 1 of the Magnetation joint venture is expected to be completed in the second half of 2012.
Phase 2 consists of the construction of a pellet plant and 2 more concentrate plants.
Once the conditions for Phase 2 are met we will be obligated to ultimately contribute an additional $150 million.
Currently we would expect to contribute between $50 million and $70 million of this additional $150 million in 2013 and the balance thereafter.
Turning to AK Coal.
As Jim mentioned we are also making good progress on this strategic investment.
For AK Coal we expect to invest $60 million which would include $17 million in 2012 and the balance in the years 2013 through 2015.
During the second quarter working capital consumed $89.4 million of cash as we experienced a typical seasonal inventory build and prepared for a planned Ashland Works blast furnace outage.
We anticipate working capital will be a significant source of cash in the second half of 2012.
In fact in total for the year 2012 we expect working capital will be a very modest consumer of cash.
Despite these cash uses and the pension contributions Jim discussed previously it is important to note that our liquidity remains solid as we ended the second quarter of 2012 with liquidity of $709 million.
And I would add that we currently expect to end this year with liquidity of more than $600 million.
Looking forward we expect to provide detailed guidance for the third quarter of 2012 in mid-September.
However in advance of that guidance I want to provide a few comments on our outlook for the third quarter.
We expect to incur approximately $28 million in planned major maintenance outage costs in the third quarter of 2012 compared to approximately $1 million in the second quarter.
These costs are primarily related to the planned outage of our Ashland Works blast furnace and the hot-end outage planned at our Butler Works.
As a result of the tax valuation allowance recorded in the second quarter of 2012 the company expects that its normal current year income tax provision will be mostly offset by a related change in the valuation allowance.
However LIFO income or expense for the year will result in changes in the value of our LIFO-related tax planning strategy used to support the value of the portion of the deferred tax asset that remains on our books.
Thus the company's projected -- current projection of LIFO income for 2012 is expected to result in income tax expense for the third quarter of 2012 as well as for the full year regardless of what our pretax financial results are.
Thus due to these and other factors we expect to report a net loss for the third quarter of 2012.
Let me conclude my remarks by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
And at this time Jim Al and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on this tax expense for the remainder of the year could you perhaps give us a little more detail on the magnitude? And if x out that tax would that change your guidance for modestly a net loss next quarter? Yes to comment on the tax it will be a little strange going forward but I'll try to walk through exactly what will occur.
As you know as part of the deferred tax asset that's left on our books we have approximately $200 million left there and that's for if we would decide to go off LIFO in the future as a tax planning strategy.
So as our tax -- or as our LIFO valuation changes it will also impact our tax expense.
So to give you an example as you know in the first half of the year we had $30 million of LIFO credit.
If you assume that that would be amount for the year let's say $60 million if you annualize that if that's what it turned out to be what you would need to do is apply a tax rate to that.
And the tax rate say if you're in a range of 35% to 40% typical corporate tax rate you'd be looking in the neighborhood of upwards of $25 million of tax expense.
What you would need to do with that for modeling purposes is take that tax amount and divide it by your forecasted pretax income to come up with a rate for the year for our taxes and apply that tax rate to each of the quarters and realize that you have to do a true-up year-to-date for each of your quarters.
Thank you for your question.
It's a very complicated subject to say the least.
We'll probably describe that in a bit more detail in our 10-Q which will be filed...
And we can talk about that further off-line in terms of walking you through that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the second part of that is that the difference between a net loss in 3Q and perhaps a breakeven? I think when we indicated in our sort of initial guidance if you will -- we'll have more guidance late in the quarter third month of the quarter as we have in recent quarters -- that it's really a function as much as anything of the increased outages.
So I think that in and of itself setting aside the taxes would have put us into a loss category.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then just a second question on electrical steel.
I was reading in the Japanese trade press that in India according to them grain-oriented -- commodity grain-oriented prices fell by about 30% over the last quarter.
And I know you participate in that market.
I was just wondering if that's something that you're seeing as well.
And does that concern you that we could start to see an increased level of imports of electrical steel coming into the U.S.
market? Well the fact of the matter is -- this may be a little bit broader perspective on electrical because I think some others may have questions as well.
As I tried to indicate in my prepared remarks we have seen a slight improvement particularly in the second quarter in NAFTA as customers build inventories for increased summer demand.
But the international market has really not improved yet and I think it's fair to say that we've seen a decline there and significant pricing pressures whether it's India or elsewhere.
And it's really a function of the instability of the world economies and an oversupply situation.
In addition for us the strengthening dollar versus the euro has certainly hurt in terms of that activity.
So I think it's overcapacity it's the global slowdown currency issues resulting in really a lower pricing environment.
Still we think the quality of the product and all the other aspects we bring position us well to compete.
But undoubtedly it's a little tougher market I think than we or anyone else anticipated.
Our next question comes from Sohail Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The pension relief that you're getting in 2013 I think there is also -- might be some in 2012.
I know you paid the pension payment.
I was wondering if you get the benefit if there was some relief also in 2012.
Sohail there's no impact on 2012's contributions.
There will be in 2013.
Maybe some of the confusion comes from plan years versus calendar years but our calendar-year contributions that have been made $170 million are appropriate and won't be changed.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And can you talk about what's going on with your coke facility at the Middletown? Is there cogeneration you're going to pursue over there? Indeed Sohail it's running exceptionally well.
We're taking about 550 000 tons annually and we're getting -- the cogen has ramped up.
And where we don't consume it it gets sold into the open market so we're benefiting from that as well.
And overall it is meeting or exceeding our expectations.
It's a terrific project and we're happy to be getting the output both in terms of product and in terms of the cogen.
Our next question comes from Kuni Chen of CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Patrick Marshall subbing in for Kuni Chen and just a couple of quick questions.
One I know there's labor negotiations going on at U.S.
Steel and ArcelorMittal and given that it account -- that those 2 guys account for 40% of U.S.
flat-rolled capacity we were wondering if you've seen any evidence of anybody in the automotive supply chain managing their inventories differently given the possibility of a labor disruption in a few months? Again we were pleased to kind of get in early and get out early to get our deal done up at Butler.
We know that they're in discussions.
We wish them well.
We've been there.
To really say we've seen any meaningful change in behavior just yet the short answer is no.
I think it's a little early.
I think it's fair to say that as time marches on inevitably the level of angst in the customer community rises and we would expect to get more inquiries.
And we stand at the ready.
We're not really in the -- what I'll call the firefighting business.
We're in the business of serving customers for the long run.
So to the extent that we can be helpful and we can be at these sort of levels that we've been producing and shipping at we want to be there.
But we want to be there for the long run.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the coal side I mean the coal production is like 2 or 3 years away but given the bankruptcies that we've seen recently and the strain in the coal industry would you be interested in looking at any further coal assets if you saw them at a fire sale kind of price? Patrick it's an interesting observation and these things continue to evolve.
When we put our strategy together for both coal and iron ore it was really a hedge strategy and I'd emphasize that.
In other words it was not our desire to be 100% self-sufficient in either of those very important inputs.
By the same token we didn't feel we could continue to be entirely dependent on the spot market.
So the things that we've put in motion the capital that we're spending the investments that we're trying to accelerate and get producing will move us towards that 50%.
One thing I think some folks have inquired -- and again I tried to make mention of it.
Undoubtedly the coal market has come our way.
We win when that happens by the way.
We're still 100% buyers in the marketplace.
And even after we get up and running we'll continue to win if coal prices stay down.
And in fact really in each case whether it's coal or Magnetation it's about having a low-cost high-quality facility and we suspect that even with a decline in the coal market that our low-vol coal cost will be 25% to 30% below the current market price for similar low-vol met coal.
So that's a long-winded answer to sort of our strategy and our thinking what's happened in that market.
I never say never but I'd also say that it's not high on our priority list to go after some of these assets.
Our next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of Longbow Research.
My question I guess is on the maintenance and overall supply-demand of your system.
So what other maintenance do you have I guess planned this year? And then would you characterize your system as underutilized? Or I guess relative to the market would you need to take any more I guess market-related downtime at any time? Great questions.
And again just for perspective when we talk about maintenance and we say we spent $1 million on maintenance that's really major maintenance.
We have maintenance going on all the time.
We probably maintain our equipment as much or better because we have less of it than anyone else.
We're constantly paying attention to what the equipment is telling us and try and really deal with maintenance on a preventative basis.
And so it had been sufficiently long enough before we went in to do some significant maintenance at the Ashland blast furnace which we've affectionately named Amanda.
And we began that maintenance on the 11th of July and in fact it's successfully been completed around the 21st.
That's the vast majority of the $28 million of major maintenance that we spent in this quarter.
That and other jobs that we've got whether it's Middletown hot strip mill or other things again they sort of come up on the calendar we assess whether or not it's appropriate to do and really the timing couldn't have been more perfect given the market conditions right now.
We've got the jobs behind us largely and we'll be ready to go in anticipation of hopefully better market conditions on the way.
We've been operating in the low 80% kind of capacity level.
That's sort of been where we've been at for recent years.
That could dip just a little bit here.
We ran a little bit heavier in the first half of the year to build inventories in anticipation of the outage that Roger mentioned and to feed the growing automotive marketplace.
So we'll balance that as we go forward and it really does vary by plant.
But the maintenance isn't absolutely tied to capacity utilization although we try and be opportunistic.
Okay.
And then on the dividend I just -- help me understand the thought process here.
Basically you have $37 million in cash and upwards of $700 million in liquidity with the revolver.
So what was the kind of discussions to suspend the dividend which really only cost you $22 million a year? I'm not sure why that -- especially when you've completed the pension requirements and it seems like you're ultimately going to get some relief on that side.
Just not really sure why you necessarily had to do that at this point.
It's a great question.
It's one that we have great discussion at at the board level and concluded that it was appropriate to do so.
Now really not a liquidity issue at all as you mentioned.
We have cash we have liquidity and in fact we've paid a dividend in some very difficult times really since 2008 the beginning of the Great Depression -- or Recession call it what you will until now.
But I think as I mentioned in my remarks given the difficult near-term market conditions that face the industry the company's significant ongoing capital requirements and the desire to really invest for the future the board concluded in its wisdom and I fully support that it was a unanimous view to suspend the dividend.
In short it's the prudent thing to do at this time.
You really have to earn the dividend to pay it out.
Otherwise it's a liquidating dividend and I don't think that's really in the best long-term interest of shareholders.
We look forward to reinstituting it when the time is right.
Our next question comes from Michelle Applebaum of Steel Market Intelligence.
Do I want to ask why it is that blast furnaces have always been named after women? That's a longer answer than we have time for on the call.
Yes okay and politically inappropriate.
Absolutely.
And kudos on eliminating the dividend.
Having a few pennies dividend that you're not earning anyway and the stock really is not reacting very much to that.
So I think that that was a prudent decision that your board made to be anticipatory on that.
My question is if I look at the earnings and I see that adjusted for minorities your pretax line was $19 million right Al? Approximately yes.
Okay.
And I subtract $28 million from that okay the $28 million is pretax right? I'm sorry Michelle the pretax...
The $28-million maintenance outage is that a pretax...
The $28 million yes is a pretax number for the third quarter.
That's correct.
Okay.
So that would everything else equal give us a $9-million loss.
Do you think that it's going to be ahead of that or behind that? Again we really have not decided to give that guidance at this point.
Lot of moving pieces and parts.
One of the things that we've done recently as you know our order book is looking actually about as good as it's looked in the last year or so and we did come out with a $40-a-ton price increase in carbon which we're largely realizing and evaluating another increase.
But you've got a lot of moving pieces and parts here that it's just a little bit early to give more guidance than that.
You're evaluating another increase.
What we do on a regular basis we look at again our order intake rate.
And if we compare it to where we were say last quarter at this time or a year ago at this time we're substantially in better shape which would coupled with costs that we're trying to recover be rationale for thinking about doing another one and we are.
You said that in the answer about strike risk you said you can be helpful at these shipping levels okay? With Amanda down I presume that means that you can buy slab and convert that slab.
Well as you know we shipped regularly 1 600 000 to 1 700 000 tons in the "good old days." So to have been shipping 1 350 000 or thereabout says that we've got a fair amount of upside from here.
Even with the blast furnace down.
Yes.
The blast furnace is back and running well knock on wood.
In addition you recall that we added some capacity to produce our own carbon slabs and we're doing that at our Butler Works the new #5 EAF.
It's doing a very very nice job for us.
We've been sort waiting for the opportunity to crank it up.
And given where scrap has gone we're producing more there these days than we have in a while.
So we do have some upside potential or we could buy some slabs as well.
You could -- if there was a reason to and the demand was there you could ship 1.6 million -- physically you could ship if the market was there 1.6 million 1.7 million again you could probably do it this quarter if the demand was there? That's correct.
Demand drives all of our decisions.
Of course pricing matters as well.
And pricing is not back where we'd like it to be.
But it's moved up just a tad and that's the right direction.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just the first question just to follow up on Michelle's a little bit.
And I'm just wondering are your lead times really lengthening? Because it seems like the service centers seem to be saying the opposite with commentary on inventory behavior and I'm just trying to get a little bit better read on that.
And then I'm sorry to ask you to do this again but I didn't hear all of the CapEx spend as you see for the major projects.
And if you could just go over that again I wanted to make sure.
I think that's really important and wanted to make sure I've got the correct spending as you guys are seeing it over the next -- balance of the year and into 2013 and '14.
I appreciate it.
Sorry to ask you to do that again.
No Tony good questions.
First let me start with lead times.
By the way hopefully we don't have an interruption in our call.
We're in the midst of quite a thunderstorm here in West Chester Ohio.
So but continuing for as long as we can for us lead times have -- are out somewhat longer in particular for coated products hot dipped galvanized.
I would say that it's ever so slightly longer on hot-rolled than cold-rolled.
We're probably out into the early August time frame for hot-rolled and late August for cold-rolled and well into September for coated.
I don't know how that compares with anybody else but that's what our book looks like.
And so it's better certainly not great.
With respect to the spending again as I sort of sum up the numbers for the second half of the year capital-wise we're probably $80 million or thereabouts and strategic capital probably $50 million.
And really if you roll together all of the cash needs if you will for the second half it's probably somewhere in the $200-million to $250-million range.
I think as Roger mentioned in his comments we expect to be significant generators of working capital in the second half such that we'll be small net users of working capital.
But if we generate $150 million to $200 million of working capital in the second half it will largely pay for the needs that we have here.
So again we feel our liquidity is strong $700-million-plus as of June 30 with an anticipation to be north of $600 million at year-end 2012.
Al? Tony just going forward as Roger mentioned we have $150 million of CapEx with respect to Magnetation over the next -- our commitment there is -- in 2013 and '14 and about $60 million with respect to AK Coal over that 2013 '14 period as well.
Our next question comes from Mark Parr of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> One thing I was curious about this -- your comments on the grain-oriented marketplace are just a little bit discouraging and there may be some sustainability to the weakness.
Is there opportunity to shift production into different kinds of products to try to get a better utilization and returns out of the Butler operation? Well we've got tremendous flexibility.
Again as I mentioned before the carbon slabs are an opportunity and we're going to tap that.
Butler is ready to rock and roll again and we'll continue to look at opportunities wherever we can make a buck.
As far as the grain-oriented electrical steel I think we'll have to play through this marketplace.
We have been growing our business domestically.
We expect to continue to grow that and we're serving our customers very very well.
The replacement transformer business is steady.
We have enjoyed if that's the right term a bit of increased business because of some of the heat that we've all endured particularly in the Midwest over the last 4 to 6 weeks as transformers expire.
But ultimately it's going to take again as with a number of our markets a real recovery and some of that's going to have come as well from abroad as the Eurozone crisis once and for all gets settled.
Research Division</strong> And good luck getting Amanda restarted.
Oh she's back up and going and we're real happy with how she's producing.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean you've said Magnetation and AK Coal are somewhat hedges.
As kind of the fact that you guys are net short in both products as those hedges seem to be coming your way is there any possibility that you monetize or finance some of the expenses necessary to kind of get those businesses ramped up? Well the faster we pull them the faster the requirement is for the capital utilization and hence we'll be looking at exactly how we do that and when we do that.
And I think it's fair to say that typically we've funded a portion of our strategic capital investments by accessing the capital market.
But more funding remains as we've discussed here and we'll look at that.
We have a variety of alternatives available to us and we'll continue to look at that particularly to the extent that we want to bring these benefits on faster.
I will tell you that we are still very very confident in the strategic rationale for each of these investments notwithstanding what's happened to the markets for coal and iron ore of late.
Again we win either way.
And the hedge bet still holds very very sound logic in our view.
We just can't get it up and going fast enough.
Again we've moved as quickly as we can.
I'm really thrilled with the progress that each of the teams has made but we're still probably the better part of a couple years out before we really start to benefit in a big way on these things.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I know that these are obviously negotiations with key customers but you're in a position where the order book is good.
You've got competitors facing some potential challenges.
Can you guys talk about whether or not some of your big automotive and appliance customers have come back to you and asked for some level of certainty or an increased contractual commitment for later this year early next year maybe a little bit more flexibility or something a bit more favorable to you since it seems like actually at this point it might be a good time for them to come running to you and asking for something? We have a very good relationship with our customers.
We maintain a dialogue.
I think really this is why you have relationships as market conditions change and so forth.
We're going to be there to support them to the extent we can.
We're gaining market share.
We have really all this year because as you've seen the markets increased.
We're up by 20%.
That's a greater percentage than what the market in general has gained.
I think we've positioned ourselves very well with our service and our quality and delivery.
There's clearly a place in the minds of our customers for a company like AK Steel in fact for AK Steel.
That's what they continue to tell us all the time.
So based on that and based on some other variables in the marketplace we think there's certainly opportunity for us later this year and going forward.
We want more and we want it sooner.
Our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
I was wondering if you could give us a little color on how the mix shift impacted.
I can see how the stainless electrical and coated gained a little share relative to the first quarter.
Could you give us any indication of whether any of those prices in isolation moved up in the quarter or what kind of trend you might have seen in hot-rolled pricing for example? Roger you want to take a stab? Yes.
In regards to -- as Jim mentioned on the spot side we had seen pressures on the spot side both in the electrical steel overseas as we talked earlier here on the Q&amp;A and on the call.
And also in the spot markets scrap continued to drop throughout the second quarter so we saw a decline in our spot market pricing which would be reflected in our carbon products primarily in the hot-rolled and cold-rolled side.
So those were the 2 key drivers.
On the stainless front I would say stayed relatively stable and chrome also was stable.
As you know on the chrome-nickel side that -- the main driver of that is your surcharge side and so that just fluctuated primarily with the surcharges.
Aldo when pricing went from the 700s into the 500s we walked away from significant tonnage just because it made no sense for us to continue to play in that sandbox and we'll continue to be very careful.
It's an opportunistic place for us to be but we don't have to be there.
As you know we are very much interested in being in the high end whether it's carbon stainless or electrical steel products and probably walked away from 150 000 tons of business or so in the second quarter.
And we had Jim a value-added mix of about 85% which was a little bit better again demonstrating one of the strengths of AK is the fact -- the ability to move up that value chain particularly in markets like this.
Great.
And so you'd probably assume that same kind of market posture in the third quarter? Like in terms of chasing hot-rolled business you probably would see more-stable-than-market pricing would you think? We hope so.
But again I think a lot's going to depend on factors well outside of our control.
We're monitoring it carefully.
I think the fact that scrap has now bounced off the bottom I think adds a bit of stability to the current pricing level.
We don't see the level of imports that we saw a quarter ago.
I think that's -- those are positive factors.
And again just looking at our own situation making an independent decision about where our order book stands we feel a little bit better than we did certainly 3 months ago.
Right.
And if I could just ask one more question on the -- it doesn't seem like this matters too much but does the negative book value now impact your ability to do any drawing on your credit line or financing in general? No Aldo absolutely not.
We have no covenants along that line whatsoever.
We have one with respect to availability but our availability has to drop all the way down to $137.5 million.
We're a long way from that.
So we're covenant free with respect to our debt issues as well as largely covenant free with respect to our revolver.
So the equity issue is not an issue.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure this question's appropriate but I'll ask anyway.
One of your competitors on their conference call recently had kind of suggested that ThyssenKrupp had kind of backed off the market here recently that they had ramped up aggressively to kind of prove that they could do it and now may be in more of a cash conservation mode.
And I was just curious to know if you've seen any impact on how they are -- maybe from your perspective when it comes to like -- I mean your contract auto customers and your position there and how you may be looking at that next year.
Has there been any real change in market dynamics there since they announced that they're looking to sell that mill? Well I think they had indicated in their own releases they being Thyssen that they had been I'll paraphrase sort of buying their way into the market really doing some things pricing-wise that were not particularly sensible from our view.
I'd say that's changed a little bit but there's still some 200 000 to 250 000 tons of product coming into the market every month and that's largely going into the spot market.
I think one of the things that's really interesting to see when this plays out is qualifications for automotive customers take a while.
And to the extent that the steel substrate comes from other than Brazil or other than Germany and there's an issue of sort of reliability and relationship building here is it conceivable that product that perhaps TK Calvert was going to serve next year and in years to come could get pushed out? I think it's highly likely.
But much depends on what happens to those assets.
They're very interesting assets.
Candidly they're virtually identical to what it is that we built in Rockport some 15 years ago.
They're probably assets that everybody in the world is at least considering as to how they might fit into their portfolio.
But hopefully at the end of the day whoever winds up managing those assets does so efficiently and appropriately because right now I got to say that there's just no demand that we don't need that tonnage coming into the marketplace.
There's no room for it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly I just wanted to touch on the electrical steel market globally.
There's been a decent amount of capacity added.
I've got a list.
I probably haven't updated it in a couple of quarters and I just wanted to get a better sense from you guys being in the business and having feet on the ground what the -- if you could frame up for us what -- how much new capacity has been added or maybe what the utilization rate is now ballpark versus where it was in '08 or -- anything any metrics that can help us put into perspective how much demand has to recover before we see a similar amount of tightness or -- than we did versus the last cycle.
We have lists as well Luke and I don't know that it really merits a lot of attention to sort of go there.
I think that it probably approaches some kind of number like 2.7 million in terms of supply and demand now is probably 2 million and change just to give you some sort of perspective.
Those are rough numbers.
But I think really since we started making a big deal out of the grain-oriented electrical steel business you've seen a lot of capacity come on and you're seeing more added as we speak unfortunately.
We continue to think that as the #2 or 3 largest producer in the world with the advancements that we're making with the established relationships that we have that we'll be well served.
But when you have that sort of supply-demand imbalance particularly in the foreign marketplace as we face it makes a far more challenging market condition and we've seen that both in terms of volume and pricing.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I have a question on the revolver.
It does seem that given where second half working capital could go AK may not need to draw on its revolver at all in the second half.
But for '13 there's some estimates out there saying that the company may need to.
And my question to you is how -- what would availability need to get to on your revolver before you started to look to some other financing options to replenish liquidity such as accessing the capital markets? I mean obviously there is the $137-million covenant that if it goes below then there's a fixed charge coverage ratio.
But I suspect you wouldn't get it -- let it get that low but what level would it need to get to before you would start considering those options? Just try it this way Justine that we're well aware of the capital investments that we have on the horizon the strategic investments we have on the horizon the pension contributions albeit now lower and other obligations.
And we're very very mindful of doing everything we can to make sure that the EBITDA generation and other actions that we can take whether they're capital or working capital-related or other things get as close if not meet or exceed our needs.
That's an ongoing effort.
That's part of that continuous improvement process that I've discussed in my remarks.
And so I don't know that I have a specific answer for you other than we're on it and I think you've seen our board be very very judicious in terms of coming to the capital markets and particularly with respect to anything that might be dilutive to shareholders.
I wouldn't preclude any action.
I would just say that nothing's changed in terms of the way that we intend to utilize our precious cash and raise money in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question is on the pension and OPEB liabilities.
Obviously the relief that you guys are getting from recent legislation is very positive on the liquidity front for 2013.
But this is a question that we've been asked so I wanted to ask it to you too.
Is there anything else that AK can do to reduce the pension contributions going forward? Let's say even in out years I mean obviously again change -- a change in planned asset returns can be one thing or a change in the discount rate could be another.
Is there anything as far as negotiations with your labor force et cetera that you might undertake in order to have a more permanent reduction in some of the contribution requirements à la the VEBA programs that you've done in the past? Well it's sort of its own seminar I suppose and we actually have those here at the company from time to time given our employee benefits.
But the fact of matter is that on the liability side it's really a function -- we have a frozen plan if you will.
In all of our labor agreements we no longer offer a defined benefit.
It's all a defined contribution.
That's sort of the first thing and it's the most important thing.
We did that many many years ago.
So if you will the payouts from the pension trust and the population will be declining over time is the nicest way to say that.
Of course the other thing that matters is the earnings in the trust and we're tracking very nicely this year in terms of our -- versus our assumption.
We are at a point -- the other thing that values the liability is discount rates interest rates and we are at a point as you see with long-term interest rates and even short-term interest rates that I don't think any of us have ever really experienced.
And so in our case every 0.25% change in the discount rate is worth about $75 million in liability so if you have $1-billion shortfall hypothetically a 3-percentage-point move with all other things being equal gets you d*** near fully funded.
So at least from a liability side.
On the cash side of things again the biggest change occurred with the action of the pension relief act and we think that's a very positive thing.
In terms of one-off kind of out-of-the-box stuff going to talk to people our retirees are trying to do some sort of settlement.
We've had a high degree of success in doing that sort of thing with respect to the retiree health care.
We really have not given that any serious thought with respect to the pension.
And because -- on the pension side of course it's ERISA-guaranteed and so consequently you can't do that.
But as Jim mentioned Justine we essentially don't have any service cost anymore.
You've got the interest cost and the return on assets.
I will say that over the last 5 years our pension plan according to surveys we've done is in the upper 20 percentile in terms of trying to earn our way out of this.
But you fund it you try and earn your way out of it and lock and freeze the benefits.
We think that's the approach that we've taken and hopefully that'll work its way to our benefit over the years.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> SunCoke the people that you know quite well have apparently been working with the folks at Ashland Kentucky about building another coke battery in what they call the South Shore.
Are you guys involved with that at all because apparently they're getting some kind of an incentive package? We have a great relationship with SunCoke.
We are always talking to them about what they're thinking and we let them know what we're thinking.
But it's their project.
And whether or not we would do anything with them in terms of an offtake remains to be seen.
Inc.</strong> Presumably this is some time in the future nothing that they're going to decide near-term.
Or are they? Again I believe that Fritz and his team -- I've read a similar article I guess it was today or yesterday that they were in discussions about incentives.
But really beyond that I'm not privy to any inside information.
Inc.</strong> And can you discuss for a moment the President's new medical -- or approved medical plan? What cost do you have per employee for medical coverage? And would you possibly be looking at some change in this towards the government-sponsored insurance exchanges? Charles again health care whether it's active or retiree health care is a big deal for our company.
And it's the kind of thing that I think we have done very very well by providing a lot of options to our employees and to our retirees in that regard.
I think whereas the national average increase in health care has been 8% to 10% we have been like 2% to 3%.
So I think we will continue to look at this as we have everything else in that arena and do well.
It's going to increase our costs.
We said that before and we would reiterate that now that the Supreme Court has ruled partly because we're going to be covering people longer than we otherwise would have.
I would not say that it is a material sum.
It's in the millions but not multimillions.
And of course our objective then is to look for other ways.
As far as the implementation of all of the new regs a lot of those things still have to get written.
We have to digest them and then we have to react accordingly.
But we'll be certainly compliant.
We'll be timely but rest assured it's going to cost more not less.
Our final question comes from Shneur Gershuni of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is kind of related to volumes.
Considering your exposure to the auto market considering what we've been hearing about automotive and so forth I would've thought that your volumes would have been a little bit stronger.
I was wondering if you can sort of comment about kind of your state of sales with respect to volumes and so forth? Well on automotive perhaps I wasn't clear but that is a very strong market for us.
And just how strong? Well in each of the first and the second quarters at AK Steel anyhow our quarterly automotive market shipments have been the highest they've been in 4 years.
So we were really happy with what we were doing there.
And I think the good news is there's upside from here right? Most analysts I think have looked for 14 million to maybe 14.5 million units sold for 2012.
That's great news.
But it's still about 3 million units short of the record which probably occurs if you believe the forecast in the 2015 kind of time frame.
So there's a lot of upside here and we're really thrilled that people like BMW are expanding and they're making vehicles for consumption not only in the U.S.
but abroad.
So the numbers might not be quite as apparent but this is a far better place to be.
And for the autochrome business as I mentioned as well which serves that marketplace for NAFTA we had a record shipment second quarter.
So I'm not sure what else we can do other than keep on keeping on and we intend to do that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up question is kind of a follow-up to some of Justine's questions.
I was wondering if you can sort of talk about sort of your pension contributions.
I know you've sort of given some color with respect to 2013 but assuming no changes in interest rates and everything else combined with the 7-plus-2 rules and so forth is it fair to assume that 2014 actually goes up? And then kind of as a follow-up to that you've mentioned your sensitivity to interest rates.
With the Pension Relief Act do you get smoothed the other way now where it doesn't benefit you as fast once interest rates actually go up? I'm going to kick it over to Roger here momentarily and then I'll close the show.
But we're benefiting far beyond just 2013.
I think we talked about $100 million 2014's $50 million to $60 million.
But Roger do you want to kind of add...
Correct.
And I think one clarity is that -- on this legislation is it is -- or is lowering the liability.
So what it's doing is it's more of a permanent reduction in our funding.
And to clarify on the accounting side that was talked about versus what's done for funding purposes what the legislation did was put in the discount rates for determining how you fund your -- how -- what your liability is to determine what your funding is.
So this was not like the prior -- the PPA and other things that were moving the dollars and spreading them out over time.
This actually reduces it as we said about $100 million for 2013 and then we have not as big but we do have reductions in future years.
Because what it's done is increase the discount rate by lowering -- then thus lowering the liability and the funding amount.
It's still is spread.
As Jim mentioned we've had good performance year-to-date on our asset returns.
If that continues that helps reduce our funding.
Of course if it -- flip side if it doesn't but we've had a pretty good year-to-date performance.
So that helps us out from the future funding side and it's really going to be driven on now more on the pension asset returns of how we do there versus the discount rates because we now will have the 25-year smoothing that will be utilized for determining the liability.
So Shneur to your point just to comment on that subject to the extent you get a spike in interest rates you wouldn't get an immediate benefit.
It would get blended into that 25-year averaging.
The collar it increases as years go out.
The collar right now is 10% Shneur.
As it goes out it adds I believe it's 5% per year.
So as interest rates go up that collar expands and so the benefit that we would be getting when interest rates go above the collar would be -- we would get more benefit than at the present time.
Well I just want to say on behalf of the management team we thank you for the insightful questions because they help us understand what's on your mind and help us to try and do a better job of providing you with the kind of disclosure you need to help get a better idea of where we're going.
And just simply before signing off thank you again for joining us today and for your interest in one of America's premier steel makers AK Steel.
We look forward very much to having you join us again in October for our third quarter 2012 conference call.
In the meantime we wish you a good day and a great summer.
Bye for now.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations; and Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our third quarter 2012 financial results.
And together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Al.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
Our third quarter 2012 financial results which were released earlier today reflected the continuing challenges of sluggish economies in the United States and abroad.
Notwithstanding the fact that our third quarter financial results were a little better than our guidance the quarter turned out to be our most difficult quarter-to-date this year.
In addition to the challenging business conditions both in terms of our shipment volumes and selling prices the quarter was impacted by planned major maintenance outages that cost a total of $29 million.
The outages went as expected and completion of this work positions us well to capitalize on improved market conditions when they arise.
Speaking of market conditions we continue to see significant strength in the automotive sector.
September's seasonally adjusted annual sales rate topped 14.9 million vehicles that's the highest level since March of 2008.
For the full year 2012 NAFTA light-vehicle production is forecasted at 15.1 million units.
That's up from 13.1 million units last year.
And while auto builds are about 15% higher this year than the prior year AK Steel's shipments to automotive customers will be about 20% to 25% higher.
In other words we are gaining market share.
Based on what our automotive customers tell us we look for continued improvement ahead in the automotive sector.
And that's very good news and translates into increased carbon steel value-added shipments and it also bodes well for our 400 series or autochrome stainless steel products.
Autochrome customers continued to prefer AK Steel's products in the third quarter as competitors struggled to meet customer commitments and strong demand.
While the automotive market continues to improve other markets continue to be sluggish.
For example our infrastructure and manufacturing market which includes appliance HVAC and general manufacturing customers tracks housing and the general economy.
Suffice it to say that demand is flat and competition is brutal for these steel orders.
The same can be said of the distributor and convertor market with short lead times.
Service centers have waited on making major purchase commitments in an effort to call the bottom on pricing.
On average service centers had about 2.5 months of supply on hand of flat-rolled carbon steel products at the end of September and that's pretty consistent with their historical level of about 2.4 months of supply in inventory.
Just last week however we began to see a substantial increase in our order intake rate for spot market carbon sales.
In fact our order intake rate was some 4 to 5x the rate of the prior week and accordingly we raised prices by $40 per ton on all carbon steel products effective immediately.
It's interesting to note that this same pattern of buying behavior was occurring for carbon spot business although about a week or 2 earlier this year than we've seen emerge since the year 2009.
But obviously we're hopeful that a similar trend continues in 2012 as has occurred in recent years.
Moving for a moment from carbon to stainless steel.
Relatively speaking stainless steel service center inventories are in better shape than carbon steel at the end of September.
Service centers on average had about 2.8 months of supply on hand of stainless steel products and that compares favorably to the year-ago September inventory level and is consistent with the year-to-date 2012 inventory levels for those products.
Now let me take a moment to comment on what we're seeing in the electrical steel market.
Electrical steel market has shown signs of strengthening in the United States but has exhibited continued signs of weakness overseas.
Due to growing transformer demand both new and replacement transformers our NAFTA market grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES shipments increased by more than 10% in the third quarter of 2012 compared to the prior quarter.
The new domestic demand for GOES is resulting from the slow but steady increase in the housing market.
Housing starts are currently projected to hit some 760 000 units for 2012 which is up nearly 25% compared to 2011.
And all of us learned last week that new home construction in September reached its highest level in 4 years since July of 2008 as new home starts rose by 15% to an annualized rate of 872 000.
That is encouraging news indeed.
The replacement market within NAFTA for GOES benefited from a seasonal boost which was largely attributable to activity from the hurricane season.
On the other hand our international GOES shipments experienced a decrease of more than 10% in the third quarter.
Demand has fallen as economic instability has become the norm especially in Europe.
And as most of you know we have effectively been precluded from selling electrical steel in China since December of 2009.
For almost 3 years now we've been fighting trade sanctions on electrical steels that had been brought by the Chinese government without any basis.
A case was brought in the World Trade Organization which we won earlier this year.
However the Chinese appealed that decision.
But the United States trade representative Ron Kirk and his staff went to work on our behalf with a very positive outcome.
And last Thursday the WTO's Appellate Body affirmed the panel's ruling that China was unjustified in imposing duties on AK Steel's products.
We were obviously delighted with this finding.
From the beginning China's case was contrary to the WTO rules and should never have been pursued.
With China now out of appeals we will once again look forward to offering electrical steel products to our Chinese customers.
It is important to note that a lot has happened in the past 3 years in the GOES market including increased global capacity as well as tougher market conditions in general.
Both of which will make it more difficult to recoup our former position in China at least right away.
But that is our goal over the long run.
If China properly complies with the WTO's ruling and rescinds the tariffs that were improperly imposed AK Steel can once again be helpful to our customers in China and participate in China's ongoing infrastructure growth.
At AK Steel we continue to differentiate ourselves on the basis of value-added products great quality on-time delivery and customer service.
We continue to grow our percentage of contract business aligning ourselves with those buyers who want more than simply the lowest price.
Let me give an example of why this is the case.
We have seen examples throughout this year of extreme volatility in the carbon steel spot market.
Our spot market hot-rolled prices for carbon steel averaged in the high $600 a ton level for the first quarter of this year and in Q3 our spot market hot-rolled average had declined by more than 10% on a per ton basis.
These steel mini-cycles if you will are causing unbelievable short-term volatility.
This makes planning and forecasting let alone selling and operating incredibly difficult especially when the only variable in the low end of the market is price.
To be clear it is not our intent to exit the spot market.
But we'll be concentrating on growing our percentage of contract business.
We want to align ourselves and we will continue to align our company with those customers who want a fair price but who also place value on product quality on-time delivery and customer service.
Speaking of quality during the third quarter we produced some of the highest-quality products in the world.
Great operations and attention to detail turned that potential into reality.
Our internal quality measures for internal rejections and retreated products continue to be on pace for another record-setting year.
During the third quarter new records for the lowest-ever plant quality losses were set at nearly every one of our plants.
Moving from internal to external quality measures.
Our customers also liked very much what we were doing for them during the third quarter.
During 3Q General Electric honored AK Steel with its Continuous Quality Improvement Award.
We appreciate the recognition of the business that we enjoy from GE and from all of our customers.
And on a broader basis once again AK Steel faired quite well in the Jacobson independent survey of our carbon and specialty steel customers for the third quarter of 2012.
On the carbon steel front AK Steel was ranked #1 in customer service #1 in quality and #1 in on-time delivery among our integrated competitors.
These performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our carbon market again amongst the integrateds.
On the specialty steel front AK Steel received high marks as well including a #1 ranking in customer service a #1 ranking in quality and a #1 ranking in on-time delivery all of which resulted in a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction from our specialty steel customers as well.
These outstanding performances and service to our great customers are the result of extraordinary efforts day in and day out by the best workforce in the steel business.
I congratulate all of our employees on making and finishing great quality steel keeping our customers happy and doing all of it safely.
Speaking of safety I might add that in terms of serious accidents we had our best third quarter in AK Steel's history with only 3 OSHA recordable injuries.
That's an OSHA recordable frequency rate for us of only 0.1-7 0.17 which is about 1/2 of our industry-leading frequency rate for all of 2011.
With that in mind let me offer a tip of the hard hat to each of our employees for keeping safety his or her highest priority for the third quarter and every quarter going forward.
Next let me move from markets pricing and quality to a brief discussion of the raw materials environment.
We're encouraged by what's been happening to raw materials pricing in recent months.
The European financial crisis and China's economic slowdown have created a greater balance between supply and demand for a variety of commodities.
This has had the effect of lower prices on commodities such as iron ore.
Given what amounts to a 3- to 4-month lag effect we've not yet begun to enjoy the full benefits of the lower iron ore pellet pricing.
The timing of this benefit will roll into 2013 for a couple of additional reasons.
First we have seasonally higher iron ore inventory levels as we enter the recent -- winter season rather and we have a certain amount of what I'll call carryover tons.
That is tons that were ordered and expected to be consumed in 2012 but were not taken due to a worse-than-expected market environment.
So those tons will be carried over into 2013 but priced at 2012 levels.
Regarding 2013 iron ore pellets we have lined up all of our supply needs at this point.
Although these arrangements are generally indexed to the IODEX we have secured improvements to some of the components of pricing that are not directly related to the IODEX.
Moving to coal for a moment.
Our outlook for 2013 is again a very positive one.
We're nearly complete with all of our negotiations.
Lower market pricing combined with sourcing a portion of coal needs with our own low-vol coal is expected to result in substantial savings for the year 2013.
We remain committed to our investments in both coal and iron ore that will allow us to become approximately 50% vertically integrated in the next few years.
With that in mind let me offer brief updates on our investments in both AK Coal and Magnetation.
AK Coal continues to make progress towards our goal of supplying 50% of our coal requirements.
During the third quarter we completed the acquisition of a coal preparation plant known as Coal Innovations in Southwestern PA.
That plant is now part of AK Coal's operations and it's processing coal that has been mined in the area.
The plant is also supplying prepared coal to our strategic partners at SunCoke Middletown for conversion into coke to fuel our Middletown blast furnace.
AK Coal itself continues to make solid progress towards obtaining its necessary permits.
Our investment in AK Coal continues to make excellent strategic sense for us and eventually we will supply about 1/2 of our coal needs from AK Coal.
That positions us well for the future in a very volatile coal market.
Regarding Magnetation we're quite pleased with its progress on both Phases 1 and Phase 2.
On Phase 1 for example the second concentrate plant is up and running well and operating at its expected capacity.
Phase 2 which involves the construction of a pellet plant to supply 50% of our iron ore pellet needs is also progressing well.
Magnetation has narrowed its site candidates is moving ahead with permitting and has begun to order long lead-time items.
Even though the IODEX index for iron ore has declined in recent months Magnetation remains a solid investment for our company and an important part of our strategy to vertically integrate.
The volatility in iron ore prices serves to validate our desire to be 50% self-sufficient in pellets.
In other words it serves as a hedge to buffer our costs.
In a moment Roger will provide more details on our financial results and our liquidity.
In advance of his comments let me simply say that we know what we need to do at AK Steel and we are on it.
We are lowering costs wherever possible and optimizing our sales portfolios.
Eventually however we'll need a bit of help from the economy in terms of higher prices higher volumes as well and certainly higher prices and there are a number challenges still to the economy which we all know.
But in the meantime we'll continue to manage those things that are within our control things like safety and quality productivity and control over costs.
Regarding liquidity in the short run we expect that working capital will be a significant source of cash in the fourth quarter.
In fact despite an expected net loss for 4Q we expect to be cash flow positive.
And longer term we will consider opportunities to fund our investments in coal and iron ore which still require more than $200 million to complete as we remain committed to these important projects that will improve our self-sufficiency to about 50% of our total needs lower our overall cost of production and importantly enhance our competitive position.
In short our focus at AK Steel continues to be on serving customers better than any other steelmaker while expanding margins enhancing earnings and improving cash flow all to create value for AK Steel shareholders.
With that I thank you very much and turn it over to Roger.
Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $60.9 million or $0.55 per share for the third quarter of 2012.
As Jim pointed out our results were better than our quarterly guidance of a loss of $0.60 to $0.65 per share.
Note that our third quarter results include a noncash income tax expense of approximately $33 million or $0.30 per share as a result of the change in an income tax valuation allowance.
Thus our results compare favorably to the First Call contestants' estimate of a loss of $0.36 per share which excluded the impact of the noncash tax expense.
Shipments for the third quarter totaled 1 363 500 tons an increase of about 28 000 tons compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Our average selling price for the third quarter was $1 073 per ton or 7% lower than the second quarter and in line with our guidance.
Revenues for the third quarter totaled $1 464 000 000 roughly 5% less than the prior quarter due to lower spot market selling prices and the higher percentage of our shipments sold into the carbon spot market.
Sales outside of the United States for the third quarter total approximately $198 million.
This represented about 14% of our sales for the third quarter.
As previously indicated our results for the third quarter included about $29 million in planned major maintenance outage cost compared to only $1 million in the second quarter.
This maintenance cost was primarily related to a work performed at our Ashland Works blast furnace and the Middletown Works' hot strip mill.
In the third quarter we benefited from a LIFO credit of $27.5 million compared to a LIFO credit of $18.3 million in the second quarter.
The increase in the LIFO credit quarter-over-quarter was primarily due to the continued decline in raw material cost.
Taking all these items together we incurred an operating loss of $12 million for the third quarter of 2012 compared to an operating profit of $56.7 million in the prior quarter.
Again almost 1/2 of this decline was related to the $29 million in planned maintenance outages in the third quarter and the remaining variance is due to the sales and raw material impacts I just discussed.
Moving to our results for the 9 months of 2012.
Revenues for the first 3 quarters were slightly more than $4.5 billion compared to approximately $5 billion in the first 3 quarters of 2011.
Sales outside of the United States totaled $648 million for the first 9 months which represented about 14% of our revenues.
Shipments for the first 9 months of 2012 were just over 4 million tons a 6% decrease compared to the first 9 months of 2011 which reflects tougher domestic and global market conditions.
Our average selling price for the first 9 months of 2012 was $1 120 per ton a decrease of nearly 3% compared to the first 9 months of last year.
For the first 9 months of 2012 we reported a loss before income taxes of $9.7 million compared to income before taxes of $64.4 million for the first 9 months of 2011.
I would also like to provide you a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA as our operating results are muddied by the inclusion of SunCoke Middletown's financial results in our reported financial statements.
Including the noncontrolling interest primarily consisting of SunCoke Middletown -- I'm sorry excluding them our adjusted EBITDA for the first 9 months was $164.4 million or $41 per ton compared to adjusted EBITDA of $253.6 million or $59 per ton for the same period of 2011.
Our 2012 year-over-year decline was primarily driven by a decrease in shipments lower pricing along with higher coke cost which were partially offset by decreases in other raw material and energy costs.
Now turning a moment to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.
Through the first 9 months of 2012 our capital investments totaled approximately $32 million.
Our outlook for capital investments for the year 2012 is now estimated to be approximately $50 million plus roughly $60 million to fund our strategic investment in Magnetation and AK Coal.
As discussed last quarter the accelerated schedule of our coal and iron ore strategic investments will likely result in some acceleration of a portion of our planned investments in these 2 entities.
More importantly this acceleration allows us to benefit from the lower-cost raw materials earlier than originally anticipated and that is good news since the pellet cost for the Magnetation facility is expected to be substantially below the current world market price for iron ore.
And with AK Coal we expect their coal cost will be approximately 25% to 30% below current market prices for similar low volatile metallurgical coal.
Regarding Magnetation we completed a $25 million investment related to Phase 1 of the project in the third quarter.
And based on Magnetation achieving its Phase 1 benchmarks we expect to make the remaining $22.5 million contribution related to Phase 1 of the project this quarter.
During the third quarter working capital was a source of cash of $23 million.
We anticipate working capital will be a significant source of cash in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In total for the year 2012 we expect working capital will be a modest consumer of cash.
It is important to note that our liquidity remains solid as we ended the third quarter of 2012 with liquidity of more than $600 million.
I would add that we currently expect to end 2012 with liquidity of approximately $550 million.
With this level of liquidity and our anticipated year-end inventory levels we will be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers going into 2013.
Let me also provide an update regarding our future pension funding estimates.
Earlier this year we completed our required funding of $170 million for 2012.
We currently estimate that our pension funding requirements will be about $180 million for 2013 and about $240 million for 2014.
While I would acknowledge that longer-term projections are subject to various market fluctuations we expect our pension funding requirements to peak in 2014 and decline in the years thereafter.
Now turning to our outlook for the fourth quarter.
Consistent with our current practice we are not providing detailed guidance for the fourth quarter at this time.
We expect to provide detailed guidance for the fourth quarter of 2012 in mid-December.
However in advance of that guidance I would indicate that based on current market conditions we expect to incur a net loss for the fourth quarter of 2012.
I would also note that this anticipated net loss will include a noncash income tax expense for the fourth quarter which we expect to incur regardless of our fourth quarter pretax financial results related to the anticipated change in the tax valuation allowance associated with our LIFO tax planning strategy.
Let me conclude by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time Jim Al and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] David Gagliano of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My question is regarding the cost savings.
I was wondering if you could give us a little more information in terms of quantifying the raw material cost savings if we assume the IODEX doesn't change for 2013 and if we assume met prices kind of sit like on a benchmark basis around that $170 $180 level.
Can you give us more information in terms of millions of dollars of cost savings? And in terms of the timing obviously you mentioned the inventories rolling through and I was wondering if we could get a little more information on an annualized cost savings number and when we should expect that to start to hit the results.
Thank you David for your questions.
Let me maybe step back and just comment a little bit about iron ore and coal.
We covered that a little bit in the prepared remarks.
We are certainly seeing lower prices for 2013 with respect to iron ore.
All of our contracts for 2013 are in place.
And as with 2012 pricing on these arrangements is tied to the IODEX.
And I think as we all know that's recently trended down in light of the global economic woes.
We certainly want to see those lower costs flow through quicker.
As I indicated in my quote in the press release and in my prepared comments here the lower pricing is lagging.
For example pricing for the fourth quarter and I think most of you are aware of this but it's probably good just to illustrate it it's based on the 3 months that ended in August of 2012 when pricing was quite a bit higher than it is at present.
So the benefit will come but it is indeed lagging.
Also in anticipation of a stronger 2012 that has played out again we have somewhat higher inventories and certain carryover tonnage but overall we like the trend.
In terms of if one were to try and quantify all of this just to give you some sort of sensitivity typically we would buy up to 6 million tons a year.
If it was a number closer to 5 million or 4 million to 5 million in that kind of range for every $10 a ton you can do the math it's $40 million to $50 million.
So it is not an insignificant amount of money.
A lot of it also depends on the direction for the full year next year.
We certainly have seen prices come down.
Our expectation is for a better year for demand to pick up a bit and that may cause prices to recover.
So I think for us to give full year guidance for 2013 at this point is a little premature except to say that we expect to save a significant amount of money in iron ore.
Not to be too long winded here but let me just take the opportunity to comment a bit further on coal as well because that's a very very important commodity input.
Again we're seeing much lower prices in coal for 2013.
Our negotiations for 2013 are nearly complete -- should be complete by the end of this month.
And I would just add on top of that SunCoke has secured its coal requirements for next year for the coke obligations they have with us for 2013.
We're sourcing a significant amount of our low-vol coal needs from AK Coal through our own mining activities that we expect to begin in 2013 as well as from coal supplied from the Somerset area that are being watched at Coal Innovations.
So year-on-year saving is very significant.
Again order of magnitude it's 2 million 2.5 million tons that we buy every $10 is worth a lot.
Savings there could approach as much as $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My follow-up question more near term.
I believe in the remarks it was just mentioned that liquidity year end would end around $550 million which I think is down about $50 million or whatever it is from the Q3 number.
But there's also working capital boost in there.
I was wondering if you could just give us a couple of building blocks embedded in that.
What is the assumed working capital improvement in Q4? And also what is the assumed CapEx for Q4? Roger? Yes.
If you look at that our working capital as you saw were about $217 million year-to-date.
I see that getting cut well in half here in the fourth quarter.
The improvements there we are positioning ourselves with inventories as I mentioned going into next year to support shipments.
We do have the iron ore coming in under our contracts that we have.
So the iron ore we have purchased and have that in inventory.
So we're probably sitting a little bit higher than we like to be normally.
At the end of the year that will be part of it.
On the capital side if you look at it going into the fourth quarter we do have our capital payment that I mentioned going into Magnetation roughly $22.5 million that will be paid for the final Phase 1 of that.
And then our other capital investments I would estimate will probably be about $20 million to $25 million range.
Research Division</strong> Are there any other big cash outflows expected this quarter? We have the interest in the fourth quarter like the one interest payment.
If you remember we have the 2 bond issues which will be about $40 million so yet again just because of the timing of that.
And further just keep in mind David of course our credit facility is based upon our inventory receivables.
And as that fluctuates we can have a suppressed availability situation so we can be cash flow positive.
And yet our liquidity may tighten just temporarily but that should reverse itself in the first quarter when we get back to a more normal level.
Those are some of the building pieces and parts.
I would just offer sort of as an overview comment we're obviously very focused on it.
We know a number of you have been.
Again just to emphasize we expect to generate very positive working capital.
We do recognize the need however in the longer term that we need to increase our earnings and cash flow increase our EBITDA.
And we are all about that every day in everything that we're doing at the company at the senior management team level the board focus and so forth.
I would also just note that we would acknowledge that we do have significant funding requirements for AK Coal and Magnetation over the next couple of years.
And that in most cases it's best to use a longer-term financing vehicle to fund longer-term investments.
In our case for the most part we've been using if you will our credit card to fund these type of investments and timing and extent of future financings if any is a decision for the board that will be driven by our specific needs and financial market conditions.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Jim I thought I heard you say that the -- your average hot-rolled spot price was down 10% from I thought you said $660.
So it implied that your average price was about $600 in the third quarter.
Is that correct? No I think the example I gave was that we were in the high 6s in the first quarter and that it had dropped in the 10% range by the third quarter.
One can do the math and still see that you're a bit north of $600 on average.
We obviously saw prices dip below that into the high 5s more recently this the quarter until the price increased.
Research Division</strong> And then just in terms of going forward into 2013 with the raw material iron ore cost decrease do you think the industry has gotten to more of a kind of a margin business with more frequent changes and raw material pricing being more transparent to the industry and to the consumers of steel? Do you think it's likely that you could get a big drop in iron ore cost and still maintain pricing? Well this is of course the great debate that goes on.
And it's often misunderstood not just by the financial community but by some customers who think that we enjoy the benefits of these lower costs immediately.
As I gave an example we're frequently 4 months and now we may be 5 or 6 because of just the extra inventory and the carryover tons.
If there was an opportunity to be real-time both on pricing and on cost we would love it.
We've tried to be as transparent as we can but I think it's often misunderstood.
And the other thing that's misunderstood is even though we are going to be more fully integrated we're not there yet.
We're still a couple of years away so we remain subject to the pricing in the open market.
But I think -- and all of that will get sorted out.
I think we've seen what was the up up and away kind of super cycle for raw materials come to a screeching halt.
You have seen tremendous economic despair in Europe at this point you've seen the growth rates in China which we suspect are going to continue to remain lower than they've been really change the game.
And now you're beginning to see for the first time the big 3 make comments about the outlook as well.
Does that mean we go back to something along the lines of annual pricing? Perhaps not.
But I think you'll see a tighter period.
Hopefully we would be of interest in some sort of tighter period sort of better matching cost with revenues which we're just not there yet unfortunately.
Research Division</strong> Is the other issue just that in the U.S.
you have this unique situation for the sheet market in that -- compared to the rest of the world in that about 1/3 of it is supplied by scrap-based producers and they do see an immediate kind of drop in their costs with scrap going down.
Are the cost numbers kind of prone to that? Yes there's no question.
This is why at AK Steel we've never claimed to be nor do we want to be sort of the Walmart of the steel business.
We're not about lower prices falling on your head every day.
We are absolutely about serving the high end of the market whether it's carbons or electrical steels.
We continue to move away from sort of the low end the down and dirty sort of market that trades on price only.
I think Mike you know having been around the industry long enough and I think I've been steel may be viewed as a commodity.
But within the steel business there are obviously the low end the commodity pure commodity plays and then there's the high end.
We're going to continue to play in the high end.
That's always been our vision and will continue to be.
And in this sort of an environment with the kind of enormous price swings that we've seen and particularly with the scrap-based guys being able to sort of adjust very rapidly to that we know where we got to go and we'll go there as quickly as we can.
Our next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of Longbow.
I guess I had question.
You said that you had noticed an improvement recently in your order rates.
Can you be a little bit more specific? And why do you expect that to continue enough to support the recent price initiative that you announced? We pay very close attention Arun to the level of orders coming in to the business because that obviously affects our operating rates our employment levels our raw material needs and so forth.
And so we monitor it very closely on a daily basis.
And as I said it was really early last week that we began to see a substantial increase.
We took more orders in on Monday of last week than we did for the entire prior week and that trend continued throughout all of last week.
When something of that magnitude occurs we react and we did.
The pricing in the mid-5s or high-5s is really not a sustainable place for a guy like us and so we needed to recover our higher cost.
We embarked quickly.
The pattern that we've seen in recent years and this really goes back Arun to 2009 has been that the service center community has really reduced inventories in light of short lead times.
It's kind of played us to try and get the bottom fishing on price.
But they get inventories to a point where they kind of can't continue to sustain their own businesses at those levels and that's what we think we're seeing.
Again having said that I think it's fair to say that while we've raised prices and while the intake rate including yesterday and today has remained very high for us it is a very very volatile market and it's a volatile market because it's largely an oversupplied market at this point.
You have the mills operating according to AISI stats from last week at under 70%.
So there's a lot of additional capacity out there.
And also we remain the freest market in the world for anyone outside of this country to try and bring their products.
We need to make sure that we're enforcing our trade laws with respect to imports particularly those that may be coming in on an unfair basis.
So we're going to continue to see that volatility that has been with us for a while.
But again I would argue that most of that plays out in the true low end of the markets the commodity pieces of these markets.
Okay.
And I guess continuing on that theme but maybe looking at slightly a different part of it.
What are you seeing on the cost side that would support price initiative? I mean as I recall I think there's still -- you have quite a bit of met coal purchase iron ore but those are coming down.
I mean is scrap going up? And is that supporting the initiative? Or what would actually support pricing here? We certainly saw a drop in scrap.
But the rumblings are that that has leveled off.
In fact we've already begun to see scrap begun -- begin rather to head back up.
So that's an issue.
I think that we're also still trying to recoup costs that we've incurred here.
If you look at our raw material input costs really over about the last 7 8 years they've gone up to the tune of about $2 billion.
They used to be under $1 billion.
Now they're about $3 billion.
That's the world that we're living in.
So things it sounds like costs are coming down a little bit maybe they're coming down ever so slightly not enough or not fast enough in our view.
But we're still looking to recover those costs.
For us raw materials and energy account for somewhere between 60% and 70% of our cost as a company anymore.
That's huge.
It used to be 30% to 40%.
Everything is up a hell of a lot higher than it ever was.
And so we cannot be shy and we're not shy about going out to recover those costs regardless of what happens to scrap.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about you said you wanted to move more into the contract business.
Where were you in the third quarter in terms of spot versus contract? And are you getting some overtures from the car companies saying "Now our volumes are bigger and we can give you that bigger percentage?" And I guess lastly can you describe kind of what incrementally is the type of premium over spot that you would expect for the fact that you are customizing your work for these guys? Good question.
Thank you Brett.
At one point we were probably close to 80-20 in terms of our contract spot.
The world changed probably pretty significantly back in the 2007 2008 environment that caused us to move closer to I would guess about a 50-50 sort of level.
We have inched our way back to 60-40 maybe 65-35 at this point.
And we're headed back over time probably to that 75-80 again.
That said there will still be a place at the table for select players within the DNC marketplace with spot market tons largely program-type accounts.
But it really is the consistency of the business of the orders.
I think a lot of us were concerned about what was going on obviously in automotive.
And I have to give great credit to the automotive company leaders.
They have gotten their houses in order and it is a far better place to serve and a much more comfortable place for us to be in.
And we are growing that business substantially as I said before taking a share.
We're also providing all the advanced high-strength steels that our customers are desiring and we're in discussions with them about their future needs in that regard.
Price is what you pay; value is what you get.
I didn't make that up Warren Buffet did but that's really what we try and do.
We sell quality.
We sell service.
That is not something that everybody wants to be into.
It takes an enormous commitment of resources and effort but it's exactly how we've built our company it's how we've invested our capital.
It's the right place for us to be going forward.
So it's the consistency of the order book.
And again you invest more but you get a little bit better margin in that regard as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let's see everybody here has been a CFO and has been involved with a high-yield market.
Is it possible that the $200 million of CapEx based on the profitability of Magnetation and AK Coal could be 100% financed based on sort of if you took current pricing for both the met coal and iron ore? Is this investment on your part potentially as much as 100% financeable? I'd just go back to the comment I made before which is that the timing and extent of any financing whether it's financing in the debt market or otherwise would depend on the actions and decision of our board depending on our needs at the time and market conditions.
I think that's about as much as I could say on that subject Brett.
Our next question comes from Richard Garchitorena of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question you talked a little bit about the potential resolution in terms of tariffs on electrical steel which had been in place by China since late '09.
I was wondering can you quantify how much China would make up in terms of global demand or demand in terms of your business prior to the tariffs? And how much do you think you could get back? My first question.
I'm not sure we ever stated that publicly.
But it's certainly a double-digit percentage 15% or so.
It's a fairly meaningful slug of business.
Obviously the entire business has come down the China opportunity may be a bit less today than it once was.
But the bottom line is again we're delighted with the outcome.
We think realistically it could still take some time.
The Chinese government has to take appropriate action.
They've said that they'll do that and Chinese customers have to be comfortable buying from us again.
We're in touch with them and they're -- we're reinitiating dialogues.
In the meantime it's also important to note that a large amount of supply has come online both within as China has begun its own electrical steel business and outside of China and so that may make it a bit tougher.
But all that said we're delighted with the outcome of the case moving as quickly as possible to regain a portion of this lost business.
Our customers loved our product before we think they're going to love it again.
And look as the infrastructure growth in China for those of you that have been there which is many of you on the call have seen they could use our product.
We could be very helpful to that development and we want to be there for them.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my other question just on the Q4 outlook.
Are there any planned outages included in that? And also in terms of the LIFO credit we saw a big one in Q3.
How should we think about that credit when you factor in sort of your guidance for Q4? Two comments there.
In regards to outages yes we'll have very minimal outages in 4Q.
In regards to the -- it's because we had a blast furnace outage here in the third quarter and that's behind us now.
And then also on your other question on LIFO as you saw what our LIFO was year-to-date and what it was for the quarter so I think if you take those numbers and take the year-to-date number and annualize that that will get you in the ballpark.
The numbers are subject to change as raw material prices change.
So as you've heard about -- we've just talked about what's happening with raw materials but through the first 9 months we're sitting at about $58 million LIFO credit.
Our next question comes from Michelle Applebaum of Steel Market Intelligence.
So yes you're all former CFOs.
That's very very interesting and I think...
A long time for me by the way.
It's probably a decade but who's counting.
Well I think it's actually not a bad thing it's a good thing.
Thank you.
So there were days when you -- I think 20 years ago you could have said there was one steel company that had a CFO running it.
So I was going to ask on Magnetation and I missed some of the last answers.
So if you just said this then I'm going to feel real stupid but that's not new.
In your 10-Q you talked about Magnetation potentially self financing.
And I was wondering if they go ahead and do something like that if that could be something that could be a source of equity for the company and as well as funds? Michelle I think we have some contractual commitments that we're committed to and we've stated $150 million in addition to the $150 million that we've put up.
In other words a total commitment of around $300 million.
That's somewhat independent of Magnetation financing on its own.
Clearly we're working with the Magnetation management that's come up with what's the best structure for the company or the venture if you will as it stands.
And so the fact that they would seek debt financing like I said might open some opportunities for us.
But our commitment for our investment is pretty fixed and we'll go forward with that and see what transpires with respect to debenture financing on its own.
If there were financing on its own you have equity in the venture correct? We do have equity in the venture.
That is correct.
So you could potentially liquefy a piece of your equity and use that to contribute right? Michelle there are a litany of options with respect to financing at Magnetation as well as the parent company here at AK.
And like I said you're exactly right.
There are some options there.
But at the present time we're committed to doing what we have stated.
And like I said we'll see what transpires in the marketplace going forward.
Okay.
Now I heard just something about LIFO in the last question and that was going to be my second question.
So if you already just said this then I apologize.
Did you talk about what the actual LIFO number was for the third quarter and what it was for the 9 months? Yes.
The LIFO credit for the third quarter was $27.5 million and year-to-date we're at $58 million.
Okay.
So that means that your credit is running about $20 million a quarter right now and $7.5 million for the third quarter was associated with the first 6 months and the anticipated credit in the fourth quarter is $20 million? Again that is correct.
Looking at it annualized and again what will drive that is what happens with raw material cost throughout the end of the year.
Okay.
Historically you've generally brought down raw materials the last couple of years in the fourth quarter if I'm correct your inventories.
Is that something you would anticipate doing again this year? And would that have -- how would that have an impact in flowing through into the P&amp;L? You've heard from Al you've heard from Roger let me just give you kind of my thought on all of that Michelle.
We want the inventories to kind of be just right if you will to position us to not only get through the winter months but also to serve customers in the third quarter.
In hindsight as we look back we might have missed an opportunity or 2 this past year by being a little bit short.
I don't think that's a good place for us to be.
Said another way we may carry a bit more inventories than we otherwise would have in anticipation of a little bit stronger first quarter 2013.
But we are constantly constantly looking at being as efficient as we possibly can be in carrying enough but not too much inventory across the spectrum of raw materials work in progress and finished goods.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to drill down on iron ore.
You mentioned that you locked up your contracts for 2013.
Now I know Essar Steel is bringing on a 4.1 million ton pellet facility at some point next year which they can't really use until they've kind of worked through their contracts that go through 2016.
So I assume that they are selling those pellets on the open market.
Just wondering if you were talking to them for 2013 perhaps buying from them next year or is that something that you foresee happening perhaps later down the road.
We have had dialogue from time to time with the folks at Essar.
We know them.
And with respect to 2013 they're not in our book.
With respect to beyond that and again we're open to all opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one question on the guidance you said that you're expecting a loss next quarter but that includes a tax charge.
Is there a chance if you strip out this tax charge that you could actually break even? We're going to do our very very best to deliver the best possible results.
And really the unfortunate thing about the tax results or tax piece of things is it does make comparison very very difficult.
Typically when you have a loss as we had in this quarter you tax effect that and you report a lower loss.
Quite the opposite is happening for us.
So it really does depend on sort of the order of magnitude of things.
But we're talking about a loss even before the tax piece when we give our guidance at this point.
We -- again we'll do everything in our power to manage the team to deliver the very very best possible quarter.
But I think there are continuing challenges that are out there in front of us to work through.
Our next question comes from Kuni Chen of CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple last follow-ups here.
I guess just on electrical steel can you give us just an update on the market as a whole and kind of what the tone of negotiation has been like for next year? Kuni I would say that electrical steel is a good news and a bad news story in this sense NAFTA is improving whereas international has deteriorated but seems to be holding at current levels.
We're -- on the NAFTA just to explore that for a moment we're growing NAFTA GOES business.
Within NAFTA here's what's going on: you've got demand for power generation that's increasing as coal-fired power plants are being replaced with natural gas-fired plants.
And so here we see increasing demand.
And similarly the volume and the distribution transformer market is being driven by that slow but steady housing starts comment that I made earlier.
And it's really fairly steady replacement business as transformers reach the end of their useful lives.
So those are the positives I guess that we're seeing in terms of the NAFTA market.
In terms of contract negotiations we're well underway for 2013 but far from being complete at this point.
And then there's the other side of the coin which is international.
Similar to NAFTA 2013 negotiations with contract customers have just begun.
But we've got a situation that is much different.
You've got this combination of economic uncertainty coupled with oversupply as the dominant market conditions driven by the Eurozone crisis and the lower growth rates in Asia.
And all of that is really resulting in reduced demand being set by too much supply.
So volume and pricing are both under pressure as a result.
We will continue to increase business within NAFTA as we gain market share there and grow.
But we expect sales volumes abroad to be flat to slightly down from current levels would be the cover I'd give you on that.
Research Division</strong> Slightly down for the entire business? I think for international I think for the overall business we hope we can still see modest growth led by domestic activity largely.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And just lastly on the other income I think it was almost $6 million in the quarter.
Can you just remind us is that basically all Magnetation in the quarter? It's a pretty decent run rate.
Are there any other items that are -- that flowed through in the quarter? If you look at the change quarter-over-quarter basically a little over half of it is benefit -- or about half of it is due to Magnetation the other half is foreign-exchange gains that we had in there with the -- to changing the euro to the U.S.
dollar.
Keep in mind Kuni the last quarter we had a pretty significant foreign-exchange loss because of weakness in the euro.
It was over $4 million of a loss last quarter.
And that's reversed itself somewhat in the third quarter and plus the benefit of Magnetation so you've got about a $10 million swing there.
Our next question comes from Mark Parr of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ons.
And by the way Jim and Al and Rog I really appreciate all the color that you gave today.
I thought this was a very helpful and very informative call.
Thank you very much.
Research Division</strong> I've got just a basic question on gas injection and what sort of potential upside you have there with the recent upgrades you made to the Ashland furnace.
Yes.
I would say that we're not doing a whole lot at either of our blast furnaces at this point to really increase productivity.
They are among the most productive in the world already per cubic foot of working volume.
The major realignment we did at Middletown to put the copper stays in a couple of years ago really gives us increased capacity and flexibility there.
So we have very high levels of capacity and we do injection that makes reasonable sense already today and would not expect much to change there.
Really the other thing that we've done in recent years I think as you know is we've increased our carbon slab capacity with the investment in Butler Works with the #5 EAF.
So really between that and what we're able to do at Ashland and Middletown already positions us very well for a improved market which we hope comes very very soon.
Research Division</strong> And I just had one other follow-up.
And there's been a fair amount of discussion on the situation with China and congratulations on that finding on appeal.
But do you have any sense of when the -- when these duties could possibly be removed? And is this something that could be a first half '13 event? I mean is it going to be longer than that? Or any color you can give on timing would be helpful.
Many things dealing with matters of this sort are really kind of in the great unknown.
I would say we're hopeful that it's in the next 3 to 6 months something like that but could be longer.
The potential is there.
It really does depend on how the Chinese government acts and how they receive this.
And I guess in that sense none of us really know but we're hopeful.
We will be vigilant.
And again we have been very well represented by our government in this regard.
Unfortunately it took a few years to get through the system and it may take a bit longer to see the effects of it but we'll continue to fight it as necessary.
Our next question comes from Dave Katz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about the total cost for Magnetation.
But I was hoping that you could go over the cost timing for the vertical integration.
We are probably still the better part of a couple of years out in terms of beginning to see the benefits of that.
We're obviously narrowing our site selection process and some permitting is already in process there.
But once that begins we're probably 18 months or so from start-up.
So it's likely going to be late 2014 likely all of 2015 we'll enjoy the benefits.
So we've got a couple of years to kind of get from here to there.
We haven't given a specific number I would say at this point Dave in terms of the benefit.
But it is a very low capital cost it is a very low operating cost and will be substantially below even where the lower prices have come in the marketplace today for the spot market for iron ore pellets.
I don't know Al...
Just I was going to say I think next year we're talking about $50 million to $70 million of capital spending potentially.
But it's largely driven David by permitting issues and things like that.
And largely our $150 million commitment over the 2013 to '15 time frame will largely be driven by permitting issues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what are you guys thinking now that your total 2013 CapEx could be including that? Don't know that we've really stated a number yet.
Again we'll be very judicious.
We'll do what we have to do to again position ourselves for the future.
But I think we'll save that comment if you will for January guidance as we continue to finalize our plan for next year.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch base again on that topic of your mix given that you said you were moving more toward a value-add mix which makes sense given your product profile.
But in the third quarter it did seem there was more hot-rolled in production than in the period mix [ph].
Can you help us understand what happened in the third quarter and kind of what's going to drive that improvement as you see it going forward please? Yes.
A little bit of the third quarter historically is of course the automotive shutdowns.
And I think you'd see that reflected in the results.
I think we went down to maybe an 83% value-added mix.
We've been 85% 87% earlier in the year.
So I think that's good insight on your part.
It should continue to return to more normal levels.
Then again we'll be opportunistic if we can make a few bucks on putting additional product in the spot market we reserve the right to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then you talked to us a little bit about the contract negotiations in coal but can you give us any insights into the tone at least of the contract negotiations with your auto customers this time of year? We are -- we have negotiations that are really ongoing throughout the year depending on when the agreements expire.
We have some that expire at the end of the year some first quarter some midyear.
It really does vary Timna to a great degree.
It used to be in the old days most of them were at the end of the year.
It's not true anymore.
I would say that in those discussions that are underway we are obviously seeking to recover prices that allow us to be profitable which is to say we need higher prices.
And in many cases we have been successful in garnering them.
It does require a fair amount of education and dialogue with respect to these issues related to raw materials which is why we've introduced over the past few years these variable pricing mechanisms some would call them surcharges but they do go up and down depending on where the market goes.
And so that has been enormously successful.
Virtually all of our contract business that we have automotive or otherwise has some form of EPM associated with it.
Our next question comes from Shneur Gershuni of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question is just kind of a follow-up on Kuni's question on the Magnetation.
I know you don't specifically break it out.
You'd mentioned that there's currency adjustments in there as well too.
But I was wondering if you can sort of help direct us with how we should be thinking about it kind of on a go-forward basis and into 2013.
It's done well but at the same time there's been some weakness in iron ore.
If you have some color with respect to are there some legacy contracts there how long do they run or what percentage of contract versus spot mix that would definitely be helpful to understand the direction of earnings going forward.
Well the comment I'd give there is that the pricing that occurs with the concentrate that is sold is based on the IODEX.
So as the IODEX fluctuates that's really going to be the driver of their earnings.
They do have their plant too up and running to capacity.
It's performing very well and the costs are aligned to what they thought they would be.
So I think the volatility that you would see going forward -- really you've seen what we did here in the third quarter.
Going forward would be based on what happens with the IODEX.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess a follow-up question.
I was wondering if you'd be able to opine a little bit on the market.
You know that the ThyssenKrupp mill is allegedly up for sale not asking if you guys are bidding.
You're pretty busy I'm sure.
But I was wondering if you can sort of talk about your thoughts about the U.S.
slab market what it does if a domestic buyer purchases it.
Do we end up in a situation where the entire market ends up slab short and so forth? I was wondering if you can sort of share your views.
This is on TK? Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
Yes.
I think -- look it's a very very interesting subject.
It's one we're paying close attention to.
I think as you've heard and read everybody is interested.
Under the right circumstances we could certainly have an interest as well.
Where do the slabs come from? Depends a lot on who gets their hands on it.
I think one of the flaws that's been acknowledged really by ThyssenKrupp has been bringing all the slabs from overseas.
So there appears to be some merit from getting slabs here.
Could the U.S.
be slab short? I suppose that's a possibility.
Certainly the world is not and there will likely be some component it would seem to us that would involve CSA the Brazilian facility as they have a say-so as a partner in all of this at least to the tune of some 27% or so.
So I guess it is a wonderful question.
It's a very hypothetical kind of situation.
It's going to depend greatly on who gets that.
If it's a foreigner if they don't want to sort of step into the shoes of CSA or bringing foreign slabs in to the full extent then that could be an opportunity for someone domestically.
If it's a domestic individual I guess that's going to fill up their plate a bit more than it is today.
Again I would just acknowledge that there'll be a lot of challenges to work through but they're interesting assets.
Candidly they're assets that are an awful lot like what we built at Rockport Works some 15 years ago.
And they're assets that are of interest to a lot of folks including AK Steel.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I have a few follow-up questions on the raw materials.
Just first with iron ore if you'd help me understand we've seen the IODEX drop by about $30 per ton.
Just based on the formula that you pay for iron ore how much of that would drop to the bottom line? Are we looking at 1/3 maybe 40% of that $30? In terms of -- on a current basis Brian or...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So we've got the IODEX at average call it $142 $143 in the first half.
And now it's in the $110.
So it's about a $30 drop per ton and so just based on the formula you buy it at should we be expecting like $10 $15 drop in your cost? Not necessarily.
I think the thing is is what we're talking about is the IODEX is a base upon which the formula is working.
Each formula works a little differently with each pellet purchaser.
Again as Jim mentioned in his remarks the timing of this flow-through it's all good but it's not necessarily all going to flow through immediately to us on a current basis because of carryover tons.
The idea though is that the IODEX movement in our direction is a positive for us.
But the idea of dollarizing that in a specific way I don't think we could give a particular answer other than to say that we would say a $10 change based on 6 million tons is worth $60 million.
That's probably the cleanest way to look at that.
Like I said there are nuances to that but that's probably a pretty basic benchmark for us on an annualized basis.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a percentage of your contracts that are directly tied? In terms of tied to the Vale model? Research Division</strong> Yes IODEX.
Yes.
So for example something like [indiscernible] they'll say for every $10 change of seaborne they'll get $3 or $4 of it.
I'm just trying to get a sense on that same type of metric.
What percentage would you see? Would it be 1/3...
I would say the vast bulk of our tonnage is based on that Vale model flowing through to us.
I would just -- if I could I would just say that each one is a little bit different.
And while the vast majority are using the Vale model they're all a bit different so it's just not quite as easy for us to kind of say this and that.
I think we've tried to give some order of magnitude.
But I think to the point we are seeing costs come down.
It's a matter of working those through the system.
We bring them in inventory produce product get them out and all of that may take again a 4- to 6-month kind of lag.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the coal I thought in the prepared remarks you said you were still permitting the coal mines.
Is that correct? Yes indeed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there a timing on when you would expect to get that on hand? And then I think also in the prepared remarks it was mentioned you would actually begin to supply some of your old low-vol met coal in 2013.
Is there a planned tonnage that you expect to build supply by yourself? And will you be operating those mines? Or are you contracting those out? It's a wholly owned subsidiary of AK Steel.
We'll be operating them although we have the ability to contract out if we choose to do that.
We have flexibility.
We're certainly hopeful and optimistic that we'll be in possession of certain permits as early as the first quarter of next year and begin to ramp up throughout the year which is why we're going to enjoy some savings there.
The volumes I know Al was very closely involved both in terms of what's in the ground and what we can produce out of there.
Yes.
Ultimately Brian we expect to be producing 1 million tons a year.
The run rate on that would probably likely occur sometime late in 2014 such that I don't know that we'd get 1 million tons out in 2014.
But on a run rate basis we would be producing that probably in the second half of 2014.
And as Jim mentioned 2013 we'll be getting our own coal out of the ground and again be building that as permits come through.
But it's going to be a great opportunity for us gives us a great deal of optionality there in terms of that product.
And like I said it's going to lower our cost in a significant way.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The first question that I have is on the balance sheet pension and OPEB liabilities.
And I know that -- and we appreciate your giving guidance for what you think the pension payment will be in 2014.
But if people are still focused on the liability beyond that my question is is there anything creative that you guys can do to reduce the size of that long-term liability? Sort of like a VEBA program.
I know that you guys I think are pretty much full up on what you can do with a VEBA.
But is there any way you could go back to you retirees or your workers or somehow chip away at that liability amount either just if you want to or if the payments become just too much of a tax on liquidity? It's a beautiful question.
We think about those things all the time.
So let me just give as concise an answer as I can.
Today we're 73% 75% funded something like that.
We would be fully funded Justine if one were to use a different discount rate of course.
We've seen the discount rate drop dramatically.
And every 0.25% change in the interest rate or discount rate is worth about $75 million.
So it would take a 2% to 3% kind of change in the discount rate and all of a sudden you find yourself fully funded.
So we think that phenomena you can pick your own time as to when and if interest rates will rise but at these historic levels certainly goes a long way.
Our payments we believe peak -- our contributions rather into the pension fund we think peak really after the 2014 kind of time frame and really begin to head down.
It is a frozen benefit plan.
No one new is getting into it.
I'm not into it.
It is what it is and we've done that intentionally.
And so the liability will decline as a function of mortality and as a function of interest rates.
We expect to be fully funded really on that obligation within the next 5 years.
We're under the Pension Relief Act really required to do that.
So that's the direction we're moving in.
So from our perspective while it's fairly significant contributions of 180 and 240 in the next couple of years they're manageable they're meaningful but manageable.
And after that it really does start to improve.
So that starts to improve as does our raw materials position and cost position and we really look for a substantially better outlook from that point going forward.
Same is true with OPEB and we continue to look at opportunities beyond what we've done.
But we've taken what was an OPEB liability.
It was north of $2 billion brought it well under $1 billion and we'll continue to look at opportunities on both of those long-tailed liabilities to bring them down.
Just one last editorial it's sort of amazing to me that we measure the -- these 30- and 40- and 50-year-tailed liabilities with a bullet point in times -- in time rather at the end of the year to measure what the obligation is when we're looking at long-term investments and we're making assumptions there on what we'll earn as well as even under the Pension Protection Act here.
We had a situation where we're using sort of 30-year investments or 25-year averages so.
Again I think you can do a lot if you look at the numbers.
We're happy and proud of our ability to continue to meet those obligations and to honor those obligations to those folks that counted on them.
But we're doing everything we can as you'd expect us to be prudent as a management team to work through them just as quickly as we can.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Thank you very much Sam.
I would just say before signing off we want to thank all of you again for joining us on today's conference call and for your interest in what we still believe is one of America's premier steel makers AK Steel.
We look forward to having you join us again in January of 2013 for our fourth quarter and year end conference call.
In the meantime we wish all of you a good day a great autumn and a happy holiday season ahead of a better year in 2013.
Good day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations; and Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our fourth quarter and full year 2012 financial results.
And together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in these forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
And to the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Al.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on today's call.
Although AK Steel's fourth quarter 2012 financial results were slightly better than our guidance the quarter concluded a challenging year for AK Steel and for the steel industry in general.
Weak economic conditions contributed to lower sales and production levels and those items coupled with excess steelmaking capacity increased steel imports and lower average selling prices negatively impacted both our fourth quarter and full year financial results.
To quote the CEO of JPMorgan's Asset Management group in many respects 2012 was a year of waiting including waiting for a path forward on the European debt crisis waiting for the results of a polarizing U.S.
election waiting for the Chinese leadership transition waiting for resolution to the U.S.
fiscal cliff issues waiting for the Middle East to find peace and waiting for a clear path to global growth.
Since the onset of the great recession in the second half of 2008 many of us have grown tired of waiting frankly but then again we have to realize that many of the things I just mentioned are not within our control.
And any case at AK Steel we're delighted to say goodbye to the year 2012 and hello and welcome to the year 2013.
While we're not providing specific guidance today for the first quarter or the year 2013 suffice it to say that we expect significant improvements for each period.
Let me give you a sense of why that's the case for us.
First of all we expect to benefit from lower raw material and energy costs.
As we tally up the potential here we believe it could exceed $150 million largely from coal coke and iron ore.
That is to say our 2013 raw material and energy costs should be at least $150 million lower than we incurred in 2012.
Here's what's happening regarding our input costs as global economies have faltered.
Steelmaking input costs namely coal coke and iron ore have fallen and that will result in significant cost savings for us in 2013.
Second we expect to benefit from increased shipments to both the contract and spot markets in 2013 due to slightly improved overall demand and a greater share of the automotive market.
And because of the increased shipments we expect to incur lower per ton operating costs as we intend to operate at higher rates.
To quantify the benefit of higher operating rates for you each 10% increase in operating rates improves our margins by about $40 million.
Third through a variety of strategic purchasing initiatives we intend to further reduce our cost of operations by at least $25 million and we're not going to stop there as I'm confident we'll continue to find other ways to lower our production costs in 2013.
Even with global economies remaining rather in slow recovery mode each of the items I just mentioned coupled with our company's continuous improvement philosophy gives us comfort that we can and we will deliver significantly improved first quarter and full year 2013 results.
Speaking of progress we continued to make a lot of progress during 2012 especially in those areas over which we have control.
Let me take a moment to provide a few highlights regarding employee safety product quality and customer satisfaction.
Safety remains our highest priority at AK Steel.
Outstanding performances in safety were delivered in 2012 by our Ashland Rockport and Zanesville plants each of which incurred 0 OSHA recordable injuries for the entire year.
Of particular note on November 30 our Coshocton plant was granted certification under the OHSA 18001 standard for occupational health and safety and in so doing Coshocton became the first location within our company to be certified.
This certification confirms AK Steel's commitment to a healthy and safe working environment.
Taken as a whole in terms of OSHA recordable injuries 2012 represented our second best annual safety performance in the history of our company.
And really those are fantastic achievements and I offer my sincere thanks and congratulations to all of our employees for making safety their highest priority each and every day.
Speaking of our employees as information we have 3 labor agreements that expire in 2013.
The first of which is at our Coshocton Works where we have an agreement with the United Auto Workers that expires on April 1 2013.
Our Ashland Works agreement with the United Steelworkers expires on September 1 of this year.
And lastly our Rockport Works agreement with the UAW expires on September 30 2013.
Consistent with each of the labor agreements we've reached in recent years we're hopeful that we'll be able to reach new labor deals at each of these 3 locations well ahead of the current contract expiration dates.
Moving from our employees to our customers.
Our performance on behalf of our customers continues to lead the steel industry.
In an industry that is perceived by some at least to provide pure commodity products AK Steel distinguishes itself by providing superior product quality customer service and delivery.
In fact our product quality is one of the most important ways in which we differentiate our company from our competitors.
For example for the year 2012 we established all-time company best records for internal quality performances.
Our rates for both internal rejections and retreated products came in at their lowest levels in company history surpassing the previous records that had been set in the year 2011.
In addition our customers were equally happy with the quality of products that we shipped to them last year.
Each quarter an independent customer survey is performed by Jacobson and Associates that compares AK Steel to our most direct competitors.
We're delighted with the results of the survey for the fourth quarter and the full year 2012.
According to the Jacobson's survey results for the fourth quarter AK Steel was rated #1 in quality service on-time delivery and overall customer satisfaction by our carbon steel customers and we're also rated #1 in quality service and overall customer satisfaction by our specialty steel customers.
I might add that throughout 2012 AK Steel received a number of Supplier of the Year honors from important customers highlighted by our Metallic Supplier of the Year award from Chrysler Corporation.
In fact we were the only metal supplier in the world to receive this honor from Chrysler.
High rankings and awards are great I suppose for bragging rights but more importantly they speak to the solid relationships that we built with our customers.
And I think also they are a valuable indicator of future business opportunities that will likely come our way.
At AK Steel serving customers better than any other steelmaker is at the heart of who we are what we do and how we do it and it's great that our customers appreciate the job we're doing for them in these continuing difficult economic times.
So ladies and gentlemen that's a quick look back at AK Steel's 2012 and the foundation that we've established to build on in the year 2013.
As I've already indicated we've got good reasons to expect a better year this year.
And with that in mind let me provide you with a brief update as to what we're seeing in the markets for our products the progress that we're making at Magnetation and AK Coal and our strategy for enhancing earnings and shareholder value.
Following my comments Roger will conclude our prepared remarks with a recap of the numbers and some key data points.
After which all of us will be happy to respond to your questions.
So let me start with a few comments then on the automotive market.
The automotive market was a real bright spot for AK Steel in 2012.
We increased our automotive business by about 20% which was higher than the overall auto market's growth last year.
In other words we gained market share and we expect more of the same in 2013.
While the automotive market has not fully recovered the fourth quarter of 2012 sales rate for light vehicles represents the best quarter since Q1 of 2008.
We're now back to roughly the 15-million-unit level for both production and sales in the U.S.
And that's terrific but there's a lot of room to grow from here.
The consensus estimates are for continued growth in 2013 and beyond and the increased optimism appears justified for several reasons.
Considered the following: certainly the low interest rate environment we find ourselves; improving credit availability; the fact that the average age of the fleet is the highest ever at 11 years with 20% of the vehicles on the road at least 16 years of age; we've certainly got a larger pool of drivers; there's a desire out there for greater fuel efficiency safety and entertainment features; and underlying all of this is of course the slow but steady improving economic conditions.
In addition more automotive production is coming to the United States from other parts of the world.
This is music to our ears as we love the sound of making things in America.
Let me take a moment to address recent articles in the press regarding substitute materials and in particular aluminum.
Since we've had a number of questions come to us about aluminum's inroads into the carbon sheet space we thought it deserved a comment or two.
Today in one form or another steel makes up about 60% of the weight of a vehicle.
And as Ron Krupitzer a Vice President with the American Iron and Steel Institute recently has said "Both the steel available for car companies is now up to 5x stronger than the steel used by them 10 years ago." With advanced high strength steels a part that weighed say 100 pounds in the past is being replaced by a part that now weighs 75 pounds and at no extra cost.
Stronger lighter more formidable steel that's close to the weight savings achieved with aluminum and that costs a lot less than aluminum that's a pretty amazing product.
Even Alcoa has acknowledged that it costs $600 to $800 more using aluminum to produce a body in white.
In a recent Reuters article Volkswagen's Head of Materials Research and Manufacturing perhaps said it best.
He noted "Costs are the driving factor.
Using new innovations in steel engineering it's possible to reduce weight without the use of more costly materials such as aluminum and carbon fiber." Although aluminum will continue to play a role in automotive design and construction steel will continue to play the leading role because of passenger safety engineering and design know-how as well as advances in weighting and value just as it has for the past century.
I'd also remind everyone who's concerned about the environment that steel remains the most recycled material in the world more than glass plastic and aluminum combined.
Again an amazing product.
Before leaving the subject of automotive let me offer a few comments on contract pricing for 2013.
As a reminder throughout the year AK Steel's contracts with automotive customers expire and are successfully renewed.
For those contracts that have been renewed effective January 1 2013 we've succeeded in securing higher base prices where possible as well as the continued use of variable pricing agreements incorporating raw material and energy surcharge mechanisms.
That said with lower steelmaking input costs we expect our surcharges to decline this year.
Moving to the spot market for carbon steel buying activity at service centers and distributors has begun to pick up somewhat following a sluggish fourth quarter.
Service centers appear to be poised to place orders to meet the needs of their customers.
Taking an independent look at our order book and market conditions we announced a series of 3 price increases in the fourth quarter of 2012 for carbon steel products.
These increases have been followed by an additional $40 per ton price increase that we announced last Monday.
Moving from carbon to specialty steels let me first comment on what we're seeing in terms of stainless steel service center business as stainless steel inventories represent about 3 months of supply in inventory on a seasonally adjusted basis.
And for comparison's sake in prior years that ratio was typically closer to about 4 months of supply.
The market for commodity stainless has improved slightly but competition remains brutal as the commodity stainless market has way too much capacity both domestically and globally.
Imports especially from China have been at very high levels.
The specialty sheet and strip market is a more important part of our business and this covers the unique products that we produce out of our Coshocton Works.
We're looking for a pickup in orders from appliance automotive and passenger railcar customers especially for bright trim applications.
And in light of increased demand in the automotive sector the 400 series or auto-chrome stainless steel market has been and continues to be a strong performer for us.
With that let me offer a few thoughts on electrical steel.
On the positive side of the ledger we've seen increased domestic demand due to a nice bump in the housing sector and selected other growth opportunities.
That said on the other side of the ledger as global economy slowed and foreign capacity increased in 2012 we've continued to experience sluggish demand overseas with shipment volumes and selling prices tailing off for international electrical steel.
In short we look for a better first quarter from a NAFTA grain-oriented electrical steel shipment standpoint with the second and third quarters typically being our strongest quarters due to seasonal factors.
With an oversupply of global GOES products coupled with slower economic growth in China and India we expect the international market for GOES to remain crowded and highly price-competitive.
Having said that we continue to do everything we can to profitably grow our business positions in both China and India.
Let me shift gears for a moment then from the markets we serve to the markets for our steelmaking inputs again namely coal coke and iron ore pellets.
To reiterate we've locked in all of our coal requirements for 2013 at substantially lower prices than 2012 which is expected to save us more than $100 million.
In addition by the fourth quarter of this year we expect to begin to consume a portion of our own high-quality low-cost low-vol coal from AK Coal.
In terms of coke we have the capacity and expect to internally produce about 25% of our blast furnace coke requirements.
Our remaining needs are supplied by SunCoke and taking into account the passthrough from lower coal costs in producing coke we expect meaningful savings here as well.
In terms of iron ore pellets we also expect to incur lower costs.
The IODEX index has been a bit of a roller coaster as many of you know depending on global supply and Chinese demand.
Our perspective is that iron ore prices will continue to moderate since Chinese restocking has concluded and given slow global growth ahead.
With that let me take a moment to provide you with the latest progress reports on our 2 vertical integration investments: Magnetation and AK Coal.
We are very excited about the continued progress at our joint venture with Magnetation.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 Phase 1 of the JV was completed and Magnetation's operations are performing as expected.
Excellent progress continues with Phase 2 of the JV which involves the construction of a pellet plant to provide us with about 50% of our iron ore pellet needs going forward.
In November of 2012 Magnetation announced that its pellet plant would be built in Reynolds Indiana.
Reynolds is located about halfway between Chicago and Indianapolis.
It's well-positioned for the movement of concentrate from Minnesota to Indiana and in pellet form from Indiana to our blast furnaces in Middletown Ohio and Ashland Kentucky.
As to our long-term iron ore strategy the recent volatility in the IODEX further supports the reasoning underlying our goal of becoming 50% self-sufficient in our iron ore needs.
Until the pellet plant is operating our share of earnings from Magnetation's iron ore concentrate sales will serve as a hedge to our iron ore pellet costs thus buffering price volatility in the IODEX index.
On the coal front we're equally pleased with the progress made at our AK Coal operations.
Barring any unexpected setbacks which we obviously don't expect to occur AK Coal expects to receive its permit to construct and operate its initial underground mine in the second quarter of 2013.
But in the interim AK Coal is not standing still not by a long shot.
It is continuing to develop and refine its mine development plan and its coal washing plant.
It's continuing to process coal to ship to AK Steel's coke battery in Middletown and to our strategic partners at SunCoke.
So we move forward at AK Steel with great resolve in 2013.
We know how to win and we look forward to getting back on the winning track this year.
In fact we resolve to win this year to restore profitability and generate EBITDA to meet our needs to sell more and grow profitable sales to operate at higher rates of efficiency to ensure liquidity remains strong while we vertically integrate and exceed expectations of our customers and shareholders.
Like many of you indeed we're tired of waiting for next year.
This is our year to implement our plans to improve our results and to reward our shareholders.
I suppose others in the sector may be looking for a carbon copy no pun intended of their 2012 and 2013 but at AK Steel we expect a better year.
We believe in better and we have an experienced management team in place that know what it takes to win.
Our team is here to enhance shareholder value and that's exactly what we intend to do.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
Now here's Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported an adjusted net loss of $36.6 million or $0.30 per share for the fourth quarter of 2012 and a net loss of $230.4 million or $1.89 per share.
The adjusted net loss excludes a pre-tax corridor charge of $157.3 million related to our pension plan and an income tax charge of $96.4 million related to a change in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
The corridor charge relates to actuarial losses associated with our pension plan.
Under our method of employee benefits accounting we are required to recognize these charges outside the defined corridor immediately instead of amortizing them over time.
The corridor charge in the fourth quarter of 2012 was primarily due to a reduction in the discount rate of approximately 1% as compared to the discount rate at the end of 2011.
The impact of the lower interest rates was partially offset by our pension plan investment earning a return of about 15% for the year 2012 which was significantly higher than our assumed rate of return.
I would also like to emphasize that the corridor charge in the fourth quarter had no impact on our fourth quarter cash flow or position.
Our fourth quarter results including noncash income tax expense of approximately $96 million or $0.79 per share as a result of a change in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance during the quarter.
This charge is a result of one the impairment of the tax benefit associated with our pre-tax loss; and two the effect of the change in our tax planning strategy related to our change in our LIFO reserve.
Shipments for the fourth quarter of 2012 totaled 1 406 100 tons an increase of about 43 000 tons compared to the third quarter and slightly than our fourth quarter -- slightly higher than our fourth quarter guidance.
Our average selling price for the fourth quarter was $1 011 per ton or 5.8% lower than the third quarter and basically in line with our guidance.
Revenues for the fourth quarter totaled $1 423 000 000 roughly 3% less than the prior quarter.
The lower average selling price and lower revenues were primarily driven by lower spot market selling prices and a higher percentage of our shipments sold in the carbon spot market.
Sales outside the United States for the fourth quarter totaled approximately $209 million.
This represented about 15% of our total sales for the quarter.
As anticipated our results for the fourth quarter of 2012 included about $1 million in planned major maintenance outage costs compared to $29 million in the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter we benefited from a LIFO credit of about $31 million compared to a LIFO credit of $28 million in the third quarter.
This slight increase in the LIFO credit quarter-over-quarter was primarily due to the continued decline in raw material costs.
As we began doing last quarter I would also like to provide you a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the pension corridor charge and noncontrolling interests which are included in our operating results.
Our noncontrolling interests consist primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
We believe that providing adjusted EBITDA results excluding our noncontrolling interests facilitates an understanding of AK Steel's financial performance for the reported period as well as for period-to-period comparison of our financial performance.
Excluding the noncontrolling interests our adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $16.8 million or $12 per ton compared to an adjusted EBITDA of $27.2 million or $20 per ton for the third quarter.
This decline was a result of lower steel selling prices partially offset by lower planned major maintenance outage costs and lower raw material costs.
Now moving to our results for the full year of 2012.
Shipments for 2012 were just over 5.4 million tons a 5% decrease compared to 2011 which reflects continuing tough domestic and global market conditions.
Our average selling price for 2012 was $1 092 per ton a decrease of 3.4% compared to our prior year of $1 131 per ton.
Revenues for 2012 were slightly more than $5.9 billion compared to approximately $6.5 billion in 2011 reflecting the decline in shipments and average selling prices year-over-year.
Sales outside of the United States totaled $857 million in 2012 which represented about 14% of our revenues.
For the year we reported an adjusted net loss of $64.4 million or $0.57 per share compared to an adjusted net income of $10.3 million or $0.09 per share in 2011.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the year 2012 once again excluding the pension corridor charge and the noncontrolling interests was $181.2 million or $33 per ton compared to an adjusted EBITDA of $265.7 million or $47 per ton for 2011.
The year-over-year decline in adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by a decrease in shipments and lower steel prices along with higher coal and coke costs which were partially offset by decreases in our other raw material and energy costs.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
For the year 2012 our capital investments totaled $46 million and our strategic investments totaled about $61 million.
The strategic investments are related to a $13 million investment at AK Coal for a coal preparation plant and a $47.5 million investment at Magnetation.
During the fourth quarter working capital was a solid source of cash of $103 million.
In the fourth quarter we successfully completed 3 capital market transactions resulting in $601 million in gross proceeds.
We took a balanced approach in these capital market transactions in order to solidify our balance sheet and substantially enhance our liquidity.
On the strength of those capital market transactions as well as our solid working capital management we ended the year 2012 with very strong liquidity of $1.1 billion.
With this level of liquidity and our year-end inventory levels we are well-positioned to serve the needs of our customers and execute our strategic plans as we enter into 2013.
In regards to pension funding our 2013 pension funding requirements totaled about $180 million.
Earlier this month we completed our first required pension contribution of $30 million and we will be making the remaining $150 million of contributions throughout the remainder of the year.
Now turning to our outlook.
We expect to provide detailed guidance for the first quarter of 2013 in March.
While we are not providing financial guidance at this time we would like to provide a few data points for 2013.
We anticipate total capital investments of approximately $60 million in 2013.
In addition we expect to invest approximately $90 million for our strategic investments in iron ore and coal.
I would remind you that the financial results for AK Steel's 49.9% interest in Magnetation LLC joint venture are reported as part of the other income line on our income statement and Magnetation's results will vary primarily based on changes in the IODEX and their concentrate shipments.
We expect to incur interest expense of approximately $120 million in 2013.
We anticipate that our pension and OPEB combined will be a credit of approximately $64 million versus a credit of approximately $35 million in 2012.
This increase in the credit is primarily the result of the lower discount rates partially offset by the lowering of our assumed expected annual rate of return on our pension plan investment portfolio from 8% in 2012 to 7.25% in 2013.
Finally with regard to income taxes our book tax rate attributable to AK Steel excluding SunCoke will be a function again of the tax effect of our LIFO charge or credit.
For example if we incur a LIFO credit we will incur a tax expense for the year.
And if we incur a LIFO charge we will incur a tax benefit for the year.
Currently we expect our LIFO credit for 2013 to be substantially lower than the $89 million LIFO credit we recorded in 2012 primarily reflecting the anticipated lower raw material costs.
From a cash perspective we estimate that our cash taxes will continue to be very minimal given our NOL tax carryforward position.
Let me conclude by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time Jim Al and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just starting on electrical steel.
Could you -- I know you gave some details there but just trying to nail down exactly what we can model for perhaps pricing and volumes on the electrical steel front in 2013.
It sounds like you think -- it sounds like you're saying that U.S.
pricing is up year-on-year but that's going to be offset to some degree by the international pricing.
Is that true? I think it's fair to say that really what's going on internationally it's also exerted some downward pricing pressure on our NAFTA sales as well.
But we are gaining market share in NAFTA.
The mix historically I would say we've been probably in that 90% contract.
That's about where we're going to be this year 10% spot.
So we pretty well know where the business is going.
But we've also been about 50-50 domestic or NAFTA and international.
Clearly that's shifting more towards NAFTA and away from international in the current environment.
So a little bit of color on all of that.
Volumes I think are going to be roughly comparable year-over-year Evan as we look at 2013 again from time-to-time whether it's due to forces of nature or other things there may be opportunities where we can help participate in recoveries and one can make one's own assumption about how those things will happen year-over-year.
But I think as we look at the underlying economic situation roughly a similar year in terms of volume.
In terms of pricing again very depressed internationally.
I think in many cases you've got producers that may not be able to really cover their cash costs.
We've certainly not seen anything like that domestically but there has been some downward pressure here as well.
Research Division</strong> And on the import front I've been hearing more and more about the Japanese electrical steel imports in the U.S.
market.
Is that mostly a commodity kind of grain-oriented? Or are they starting to impact the high perm [permeability] sections of the market? We like our position in the high end of the market we always have and we'll continue to do what we can to serve our customers well and defend that.
I think one of the things that we've taken a hard look at and we'll continue to do so along with our lawyers is whether or not there are issues that really amount to dumping here.
And it's something we'll continue to look very very hard at including at the Japanese.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
All right.
Then maybe just one more on the auto contracts.
I'm just trying to understand the timing for modeling these.
It sounds like the base prices are up a little bit but you have some raw material surcharges.
I assume you're still buying iron ore on kind of a 1-quarter 1-month lag.
How are the surcharges charged here? Will we see any sort of timing issues as those kind of come on and off? Again we're delighted with our growth in the auto business first of all and expect more of the same this year as we continue to grow not only with the announced growth that all of them are seeing and I think articles in the paper today on Toyota recovering retaking #1 position.
That's a very good customer of ours and so forth.
But to your point again at various points throughout the year whether it's a January 1 a March 31 or midyear or beyond there will be contracts that come up for renewal and we'll successfully renew them.
There is obviously a base price component and then there is a surcharge component a variable pricing mechanism component if you will.
And again some of it depends on the timing of when those things are renewed.
Some of it depends on the volume commitments.
Each relationship is unique.
Each contract is different.
Each variable pricing mechanism is a bit different than the others.
Some include iron ore where possible some don't.
So it's very difficult to be very specific and really to model that except to say that clearly we're going after prices that allow us to make a profitable return.
And we'll continue to grow profitable business.
We'll continue also to push for the variable pricing mechanisms.
We think that makes sense.
Although this year as I've indicated given that some of our materials are down our customers will enjoy some of the benefit of that as well.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In your prepared remarks you said that you forecasted there could be as much as $150 million in savings from raw material costs in 2013 and I think you said that over $100 million of that is due to coal.
So I just wanted to get an understanding of if there's any further granularity you can add to that $150 million comment.
And I just -- basically I'm trying to get a sense of what's in the bag already and what could change from here depending on where spot prices go.
Luke great question.
Thank you.
Let me lead off and then I'll toss it over to Roger to fill any blanks that I miss here.
But we just -- we've come out with this number because it's really something I think that you can grab and appreciate the benefit.
There are advantages I suppose to being fully integrated.
There are advantages to not being fully integrated.
We think the right thing long term is to be right in the middle which really gets to the strategy that we've undertaken here.
But in a year when prices have come back it's really coal and coke.
It's hard for us to really distinguish between the 2 because again we get the passthrough benefit of the coal purchases in the coke that's being produced by our friends at SunCoke.
So really on a combined basis a little bit more than $100 million we would expect in terms of coal and coke.
And those deals are done right? We know those deals they're in the book and so we're very confident when we talk about that number.
The savings that we talk about which could be say half of that amount for example just to give you sort of a ballpark number in iron ore is based on 2 things: One we know the cost of about half of our iron ore pellets for 2013 for a variety of reasons.
We bought forward we've hedged we came into the year with a fair amount of inventory.
And all of those things -- and of course we already know the first quarter pricing just the way the mechanism works.
So all of those things taken together give us confidence that we know what those dollars are.
And the other thing is again the IODEX had a huge run from the 90s back up to the 150s or so that we think it's going to moderate somewhere in the 130s.
And if that's the case again we expect to generate those savings.
And there's a bit of an offset here again that which benefits us in the open market may deplete a little bit of the benefits associated with Magnetation and vice versa.
So overall though raw materials for one of the few times in recent years have really come our way and we're delighted about that.
Roger? Jim you covered all the items.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And we've got a great deal of detail.
Second question I just had was -- congrats on the continued share gains you're seeing in automotive.
It seems like it's a place where everyone is really focused.
And I just wanted to get a sense of what you're seeing.
There's the new mill in Alabama and obviously a lot of that is ultimately going to be aimed towards the auto market.
You've also got the stainless part of that.
Can you give us some sense of what you're seeing from a competitive perspective as it relates to that mill? Do you think that because it's in a situation where the assets are for sale that maybe you kind of got a free pass on them participating in the contract markets this year? And can you just give us maybe your overall thoughts on that whole situation? First off thanks for the comment.
We're delighted with our growth.
At one point AK Steel probably had something like 60% of its business tied up with automotive got all the way back probably to half or less than that.
And we're coming back I think as we've really again reestablished and are growing on relationships that are very valuable.
It's very good business.
We've invested in our company in the facilities that we've put in and the mindset and the approach that we have to our business.
AK Steel has never been sort of the Walmart of the steel business.
We're not a commodity player.
We are indeed a very high-end player and we want to serve folks with high value-added product including the automakers.
So that's our focus nothing new there.
Good luck to anybody else who wants to take on that business.
It's very very tough business not only the applications themselves but the customer service what it takes to make a $1 in that business.
And good luck to TK or the new owners.
I think one of the things that people have to realize is that there is a qualification process that has to occur.
I suppose a lot of the material that was coming from Germany or perhaps from Brazil has been qualified.
But we'll see.
And I think not only do you have to get qualified you have to get on platforms.
And unless someone screws up and provides an open door for someone else you're getting on new platforms.
And we'll see.
That does take time.
I think it's going to take a little longer than probably most people think it will take and it will probably cause continued pressure more so in the spot market than in the high-end automotive market at least initially.
Our next question comes from Richard Garchitorena of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Riya for -- on Richard's line.
Just wanted to -- I had a couple of questions.
One was that you mentioned about the raw material cost savings.
So how much of this do you think you would pass on to your customers versus actually keeping to yourself? The numbers that I think that we have shared with you are what I would call net numbers.
So I don't know that we've quantified how much we'll pass on.
And again it would depend entirely on -- we've got gas and other raw materials scrap and other components in each of our deals.
And so -- and each one is unique and each one sort of resets as things change.
So I don't know that I'd be able to quantify it for you.
Coal and coke generally have not been a surchargeable item and a modest amount on iron ore.
So I think the numbers that you're looking at should be pretty close to being net.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second thing that I wanted to know is -- so regarding the stainless what is your outlook for the stainless steel market? Are you seeing any improvement in white goods demand from housing recovery at all? We're seeing a little bit of improvement again not as much as we'd like.
And I think the point first that we always like to make for us in stainless you really have to slice that in a particular market a number of ways.
The good news for us where the market is strengthening is really the auto-chrome the 400 series portion of that market as a function of the growth in automotive generally.
But we've been serving that market well.
Our customers like what we're doing for them there.
The other market that's shown a pickup is really in the specialty sheet and strip products the kind of materials that we make out of our Coshocton Works.
So that's very good and that would go into the white goods in particular.
And we've seen some growth there in the appliance arena.
The commodity 300 the pure commodity down and dirty business remains as I said in my prepared remarks overcrowded closely tied to nickel prices.
So -- and I would say that nickel prices have sort of leveled out and actually picked up a bit.
And so you've seen a bit of firming there at least in terms of pricing if not demand.
I think one of the things again that people look to is with the entrée of Outokumpu now with Inoxum sort of what happens to all of that? We are somewhat amazed if not stunned when we hear comments that they will be coming into the market to add perhaps as much as 1 million tons of capacity in a market that's really overcrowded already.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a request.
Is it possible for you guys to consider starting to report a specialty steel segment in addition to your carbon flat-rolled business? Mike all things are possible in life but the reality is it's not the way that we run our business.
How we run our business is we may melt product in Butler and hot-roll it in Middletown and finish it in Rockport send it somewhere else.
So we'd be making an awful lot of assumptions there with respect to things like transfer price and overhead allocation that tend to lose meaning and we try and deal with that through just giving you some sense and feel for demand and so forth ebb and flow in that market.
But I just don't think it would have particular meaning.
We thought about it a lot internally as you could guess but I wouldn't look for it anytime soon.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an idea if you look at the specialty steel business that you have the electrical steels the ferritics and the austenitic stainless? Of the $5.9 billion in just sales for 2012 could you give us a rough estimate of what those 3 specialty steel product groups were? Roger? On the sales side we do not have the sales there's shipments.
Research Division</strong> Well you can give us the profitability side too if you have that.
We have as you know...
Research Division</strong> I've been trying that one for years with Al.
Yes well keep going.
We provide as much data as we're comfortable providing of course and we do have a supplemental data package that we give shipments and so forth.
And we're happy to provide that to you.
I don't know if that's where you're going with all of this.
I think it's fair to say that historically speaking that specialty steel's margins have been somewhat better than carbon margins and I think that's still the case although clearly we've seen a narrowing of that as you look at what's going on in particular with electrical steel and international electrical steel.
Stainless again it's -- you can't kind of glob it all together because it really does depend on what type of stainless you're talking about.
But I would say again to the point historically those margins have been better than carbon.
Much of our focus at the company Michael and others has been on enhancing our margins in every one of our product categories and in particular in carbon hence the investment announced a little more than a year ago into our raw material vertical integration.
And I think those really have the capacity to unlock significant value for us narrow the volatility substantially and really improve the bandwidth of earnings.
And that's really what we're focused on as well as continued innovation and product development in each of those markets.
That's really what it's all about.
Research Division</strong> The last question on this.
Does any 1 of those 3 specialty steel products account for all of your positive EBITDA last year? Short answer is no.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One question that I have is just on the potential benefit from the development of AK's own raw materials in 2015.
I know that when you guys were marketing your deal -- your bond deals in December a number that was out there was regarding cost savings in 2015 of about $150 million from the oncoming supply from AK Coal and Magnetation which the $150 million benefit this year from raw materials just being lower.
How does that change the relative benefit that we might see from the internal development of raw materials in 2015? Well Justine I think in the arusha [ph] development we added various levels of pricing various benefits so to speak.
For example on the coal side with coal being at $110 per ton so to speak we were generating about $20 million of benefit.
And again it's a sliding scale on that basis.
Again both of these investments are looked at as a hedge such that obviously they'll move in proportion to where prices are going.
But we see these benefits [indiscernible] through [ph] us significantly because of the low-cost nature of both of Magnetation as well as AK Coal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also on the financing side of things.
Obviously you guys didn't use your [ph] equity and converts in December so that was a pretty big change around in the balance sheet.
But is there still the possibility of funding some of the $90 million of strategic investment CapEx in 2015 off balance sheet with some debt at Magnetation or some way to basically fund that without using AK's cash flow from operations or AK's revolver? Great question Justine.
Again I would say first we have no current plans for accessing the capital market.
Such matters are always topics for debate and discussion amongst the board.
We have no announcement today.
We constantly work closely with our friends at Magnetation about their financing needs and working capital needs.
And I wouldn't rule something like that out although it's not presently on the table or something we have an announcement for today.
Our next question comes from Sam Dubinsky of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few quick ones.
Given volatile input prices how should we think about LIFO credits and charges for 2013? Well as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we expect that we will have a LIFO credit still for 2013 based on our assumptions as Jim had outlined in our cost -- or in the raw material reductions.
But it'd be substantially lower than the $89 million that we had in 2012.
But we're not providing a specific number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of -- can you just give some color on the coal mining production cost targets for '13 and '14 and also Magnetation...
Well Sam again our indications are that when we're ramped up that -- again we haven't given a specific number but I think you can deduce from the numbers that we've provided namely that in $110 that in a 1 million tons of production we'd be generating about $20 million of operating profit which would indicate a cash cost in the $90 neighborhood so to speak which I think we're comfortable at fully recognizing that we're still in the permitting process.
And -- but like I said we feel that that's a decent number and again consistent with what we think are costs in the Somerset area where we're producing coal -- where we will be producing coal.
Candidly Sam we hope to do better than that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then my last question is it just seems like we've seen 4 rounds of price hikes over the past few months.
Some of the price increases have just been an effort to stop the market from falling because I think we have seen pricing pull back a little bit.
Directionally and not for you guys specifically just based on the spot market of what you're seeing could you say where pricing is today just in the dollar term how high it is off of 4Q lows? Well we're up.
We're not up nearly as high as we'd like.
We're attempting to realize and have price quotes out there for our full $40 per ton.
But again it's a very competitive market and we're going after many of the same orders in the spot market that our competitors are.
One of the things that I just offer Sam that we're looking at -- we're about 65%-35% contract to spot market looking to continue to grow that hopefully upwards of 70% all the way to 75% or 80% so that there's less of us in this very crowded spot market arena.
But prices are trending higher but not moving quite as quickly as we'd like them to be going.
We're now certainly north of $600 a ton which is a better place than we've been recently.
Our next question comes from Michelle Applebaum of Steel Market Intelligence.
A couple of drilled in kind of questions.
First one is on automotive you said you're getting increases wherever possible.
I'm just wondering how often that's possible.
We go after them in each case.
We have been successful in some cases.
And in other cases perhaps it's due to what we've negotiated volume-wise.
We may not have gotten an actual base increase.
But again each one is unique and different.
Okay.
And then second question is you're saying you're still going to have a LIFO credit for the year but it will be a lot lower than last year.
And I'm trying to figure out what kind of trend line assumptions you're forecasting from current levels at year-end because in order to have a LIFO credit you'd have to be forecasting that your raw materials would be lower-priced by the end of the year.
And I noticed that Nucor's guidance today said that they expect to go from a credit to a charge and I think that their raw material prices have been recently -- have not increased the way iron ore prices have increased.
So I was just kind of curious what your assumptions are on iron ore and coal between now and year-end that lead you to a credit? And then the second question is what's the sensitivity of your LIFO layer to each of those commodities? I mean is that the bulk of the forecast? Let me defer to our LIFO expert Roger Newport Michelle.
Michelle a couple of things.
In regard to the iron ore as you're aware it had dropped down late in the year in 2012.
Here in the beginning of the year we have seen it spike up to nearly $160 was what the IODEX went up to.
We're continuing to see a decline from that level.
It's down in the 140s right now.
And we think that will continue to moderate itself and continue to reduce throughout the year at this point.
In regards to coal we know what our coal costs are going to be this year.
So that is known that is going to be lower.
Those contracts are completed.
And a comment on the scrap side is scrap had declined throughout last year.
Scrap costs will probably -- could be flat or could go up.
I won't give a projection on what I think it will do this year.
That's why we're not giving guidance of what we think LIFO will do.
But it is -- it usually trends with what's going on with the spot market pricing for hot-rolled.
So I can understand your commentary of others.
What they're saying is it's their outlook for scrap.
Our next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of Longbow Research.
I guess my first question is on cash flow.
You guys had an operating cash use of $270 million in 2012.
Working capital was $115 million of that.
What's the expectation for working capital in '13? And is that -- and how does cash use vary with average pricing? Arun a great question.
We expect to be working capital positive in 2013.
I'd emphasize that point.
Our liquidity is in great shape as Roger mentioned ending the year with about $1.1 billion position.
You start with the premise that we expect to have a better year.
No doubt we have some sizable expenditures including things like pension funding and interest and so forth.
But again I think we're starting off in better shape looking for a better year.
And we'll pay very very close attention to your point on working capital and expect working capital to be a positive for us.
Arun I just mentioned that working capital was a use of $110 million last year which was very unusual for us because we've been fairly close to using that.
But I think again as Roger mentioned in his remarks that's going to inure to our benefit in some of those carryover tons and I think also will lead itself to a more positive use -- or positive benefit from a working capital perspective for 2013.
Okay.
So let me just clarify another way.
Assuming price stays constant you get the $150 million in raw materials and you get maybe $100 million or $50 million to $100 million in working capital.
There's a good possibility that you could have positive operating cash flow in 2013.
Is that right? I guess I'll just comment on working capital side.
I mean we see that it will definitely be a positive to us for this year especially with the iron ore declining.
Okay.
But if you -- if you assume that price stays constant and you get all the benefits in raw material you should see potentially a positive operating cash flow too for the year? Yes I think if you look at the lower cost you got to look at what's in inventory at the end of '12 versus what's going to be in the inventory the value at the end of '13.
So our $100 million -- the numbers Jim have talked about is total for the year not all of that is sitting in inventory at year-end.
So you would get a pro rata share of that in working capital benefit year-over-year.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> I'd like to talk a bit about stainless.
Your comments were pretty spot on the best I can tell but even worse might be one of your competitors putting in a new wide hot strip mill.
And since so much of the stainless market historically had been 48-inch wide I think you can go 60 the plant in Alabama can go 72.
The limitation would seem to be not on your rolling limitation but on your casting limitation.
How wide can you cast a stainless slab? Yes we're in the 40-plus 42 kind of range Chuck I think is typical.
Inc.</strong> And so you can't take advantage of the full 80-inch hot strip mill? Well not really at this point.
Again what I would say Chuck on that whole subject I think you're referring to Allegheny.
I think they will be continuing to construct this year as we understand things begin ramping up and continue most of that through next year.
And we may be facing more of them late next year in 2015 and so forth.
We're keeping a close eye on what's going on there as well as what's going on in Alabama.
The fact of the matter is we're not sure that really -- I mean look the basic driver in that particular marketplace is the raw material input costs.
And until someone owns their own mines it's not a dramatic change but we're mindful.
We think our costs and certainly our quality are extremely competitive.
We continue to get very high marks from our customers in that arena.
We'll do everything we can to defend our position there as we have for years.
Inc.</strong> Second question involves the Alabama plant.
Do you understand -- or do you know whether or not they're going to go after the 409 market? Or is it strictly the 300 series? They'd have to answer that question themselves.
But what we have read is that -- and I think we sense is that they're bringing a small amount of product to the market now looking to increase their position perhaps as much as 25% of the stainless market.
I guess again it depends on how one defines the stainless market and maybe they could answer that question more fully.
One of the fallacies though that I think we saw play out with the carbon business for TK is that despite higher capabilities and presumed higher quality or superior quality you don't get paid for that right? I mean we know that.
We certainly have seen the hemorrhaging of cash that has occurred for TK and I suspect absent prudence the same kind of thing will occur with respect to the stainless business here.
We think candidly that whole approach is illogical and perhaps borders on insanity.
To bring 1 million tons to a market that already has 1 million more than it needs and to say that you'll come into the market with -- and be competitive on pricing at least that's their intension I just don't see how that happens.
So again we'll be very interested to see how and if it comes and whether or not it pushes out imports and perhaps some of their own product.
And one really has to do the math but the whole idea of adding this capacity candidly doesn't make sense to us.
Our next question comes from Mark Parr of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple.
Most of my questions have been answered.
And Jim you've given a lot of really good color today.
It's been very helpful.
First question I've got relates to the Auto Workers' contracts.
And I'm wondering if with the recent new contracts out of Chrysler and GM if there may be any new wrinkles to the negotiations based on the pattern established up there.
Short answer is no.
We look at them carefully.
We've got very good deals.
We think the deals that we have are as good as anybody has in our business.
And in business generally give us kind of flexibility when it comes to workforce size job classes flexibility and then sharing in the cost of benefits.
So not anticipating any significant issues and haven't really gleaned any insights from those deals you referenced that would give us a leg up.
Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And secondly you may have already mentioned this but I think in your opening comments you talked about $25 million of operational improvements you were working on.
I was wondering if you could give some more color on that.
I think the $25 million that we referenced really had to do with strategic purchasing initiatives and there's just a whole host of things that we've been doing.
Obviously our spend is depending on what you put in that category well north of $1 billion.
And so we're looking where we can to consolidate activity to streamline activities.
And I think that's a very achievable goal for us.
And we won't stop there as I said.
There's a whole host of other things we're doing in terms of maintenance practices and operating practices in the mills that we think will also bear fruit and hopefully a multiple of that.
So that's who we are.
We are in the business of improving things at our company.
Management as it's always been said doesn't get paid to maintain the status quo.
We get paid to improve things.
That's our philosophy of continuous improvement believing in better and then making better happen and that's what we intend to do this year.
Our final question comes from Sohail Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go over some of the benefits just get an idea of what 2013 would look like.
So you have $100 million benefit from coke and coal let's assume 5.5 million ton of production around $18 a ton benefit.
And then pension looks like Roger mentioned is going to be about $30 million benefit further credit.
So there's about $5 a ton.
And then less is utilization rate is up 5% and every 10% you get $40 million.
So that's about $4 a ton.
So you have about $27 a ton benefit plus some cost cutting you've targeted.
So around $30 a ton is it fair to assume that kind of saving and of course offset by if there's a price decline year-over-year and electrical price decline and so forth? We haven't quantified it quite so digitally but I think you're right in the ballpark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean how are you set for the electrical steel price contracts in the U.S.? Because 90% of yours is already set.
So is that significantly down or modestly down? Or how are you seeing that? To the extent they are we hope to offset those with other cost reductions is I guess how I would characterize it.
Again we like the additional volume which we've been successful in getting.
And we've had to be competitive if you will on the pricing front.
But I wouldn't really quantify it here except to just acknowledge that there have been downward pressures with respect to pricing.
But for us again and we don't know what others are saying we've read a lot of headlines perhaps including your own that 2013 looks and feels a lot like '12.
For us as you've just quantified we're going to have lower costs right? We know that.
We're going to have a richer product and market mix.
We're going to have higher volumes of sale not [ph] dramatically higher but they're up.
And we're going to get the benefits of lower production.
So there are a lot of moving pieces in the works but we feel very good about the direction generally starting here with the first quarter and continuing throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And one more thing.
Is -- the benefit of the coal is for the whole consumption including the one which is -- comes through the coke agreement.
Is that correct? That's correct.
And ladies and gentlemen again we want to take this opportunity to as we sign off thank all of you for your interest in and your continuing support of AK Steel.
We hope we can have you join us again in about 3 months for our first quarter 2013 conference call.
Until then we wish you a great quarter and a much better year in 2013.
Thank you again.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
And you may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations; and Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business and following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our first quarter 2013 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
And to the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Al.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
Progress.
That's our focus at AK Steel on making significant progress and in addition to making and finishing some of the world's finest steel products frankly we've made a lot of progress during the first quarter of 2013.
Some of that progress was evident in our financial performance for the quarter.
In fact from an EBITDA perspective AK Steel's first quarter of 2013 results improved by $50 million or $40 per ton compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Comparing the first quarter of 2013 to the prior quarter we enjoyed a richer shipment mix 5% higher average selling prices lower steelmaking input costs and despite a $25 million lower LIFO credit as I mentioned our adjusted EBITDA was $50 million higher and we narrowed our net loss to $0.07 per share.
Notwithstanding continuing challenging market conditions especially in the stock market we remain intensely focused on improving our financial performance going forward.
Speaking of the future we expect several things to unlock substantial value for AK Steel shareholders including continuing recoveries in the domestic and global economies; our continued increase in domestic automotive production; further gains for us in terms of our automotive market share; increasing housing starts which are closely correlated with electrical steel demand; and the realization of lower raw material costs due in part to implementing our vertical integration strategy.
Taking all that together we're confident that we're on the right track positioned with the right strategy and operating with the right focus all of which should bode well for better days ahead.
Much of our progress at AK Steel can be attributed to how we do what we do.
For example how well we serve our carbon and specialty steel customers.
At AK Steel we strive to serve our customers better than any other steelmaker with a combination of superior product quality consistent on-time delivery and outstanding customer service.
Over the years our efforts have been recognized and highly rated by our customers.
Continuing in that tradition we fared well in the first quarter of 2013 in the Jacobson independent survey of our customers.
For example compared to our carbon steel integrated competitors AK Steel was ranked #1 in quality customer service and on-time delivery as well as inside sales support for the first quarter.
These performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction among our carbon steel integrated competitors.
Very proud of that.
On the specialty steel front we were ranked #1 in quality in customer service and in outside sales and inside sales support.
This performance also translated into the #1 rating and overall customer satisfaction in our specialty steel markets.
Again we're equally proud of that achievement.
And really these outstanding performances and service to our great customers are the collective result of a superb team effort by all of our employees and I congratulate our entire workforce on a job very well done.
Moving from our customers to our employees during the first quarter of 2013 we were honored for our 2012 safety performance at our Zanesville Works.
I congratulate our Zanesville employees on achieving this well-deserved recognition and the tremendous attention to safety that they continue to exhibit every day.
When it comes to safety what matters most is not what we did yesterday but what we'll do today every shift and tomorrow to keep our employees safe.
Accordingly we vow to remain vigilant in applying our safety approach and educating equipping and enforcing our program or what we call the 3 Es of our safety program.
Each has been a vital element of our safety approach in the past and each will continue to remain a vital element of our safety program in the future.
Speaking of our employees during the first quarter of 2013 we reached an early labor agreement with the United Auto Workers at our Coshocton Works plant.
This 3-year contract which will expire on March 31 2016 continues to provide a competitive and flexible labor arrangement for AK Steel and for our Coshocton Works employees.
Next up in 2013 our labor contracts at Ashland Works and Rockport Works which expire on September 1 and September 30 respectively.
Continuing on the subject of employees for a moment let me take just a moment to highlight the excellent progress being made by our AK Coal employees.
AK Coal together with Magnetation is an important strategic project for AK Steel that will improve our raw materials self-sufficiency and lower our costs in the years ahead.
You may recall that once fully operational AK Coal is expected to provide us with approximately 50% of our annual coal requirements.
The initial mining site which is located near Somerset Pennsylvania is currently being prepared for the mining of low-vol coal.
Long lead time items were ordered some time ago and they should be arriving in Somerset within the next few weeks.
Importantly we anticipate receiving our mining permit in the month of May and we expect to be mining coal in the month of June.
Staying on the subject of vertical integration solid progress is also being made by our Magnetation joint venture.
In fact Magnetation is about a year ahead of its original schedule when we announced our strategic investment plan back in October of 2011.
I'm delighted to report to you that Magnetation recently received its air permit from the State of Indiana which is needed to build and operate the pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana.
Now that Magnetation has the permit in hand construction is expected to begin very soon and last approximately 18 months.
Accordingly we could begin to see our first pellets for Magnetation by the fourth quarter of 2014.
We anticipate that the facility will ramp up production to full capacity during 2015.
This project represents a very important strategic step for AK Steel as it will provide us with substantial cost savings and add significant value for our company.
Upon completion the pellet plant Magnetation is expected to provide AK Steel with approximately 50% of our annual iron ore pellet requirements.
I have to tell you next fall simply can't come soon enough for me.
Now let me take a few moments to provide you with an update on what we're seeing in terms of demand and pricing for our products.
The automotive market which represented about 45% of our revenues for the full year 2012 continues to be a bright spot for our business both in terms of our carbon and specialty steel products.
As a matter of fact in the first quarter of 2013 AK Steel experienced its highest level of shipments to auto customers since the first quarter of 2008.
Again that's progress.
Incidentally the first quarter of 2013 seasonally adjusted sales of 15.2 million units represents the best quarterly results since the same level of sales was achieved in Q1 of 2008.
And forecasters now predict that we could actually exceed sales of 16 million units for the year 2013.
Again solid progress on that front.
So although automotive production and sales are not yet all the way back to pre-recession levels they are a lot better than the 8 million to 9 million unit level that we saw at the trough of the Great Recession.
Increased household wealth from improving home prices and a rising stock market is providing added support for automotive sales.
And speaking of the housing market we appear to be on pace for roughly 1 million housing starts for 2013.
That would represent more than a 28% increase compared to the 781 000 housing starts for 2012 and it would mark the first year since 2007 that housing starts topped the 1 million unit mark.
Progress indeed with more progress on the way.
Current consensus estimates for 2014 housing starts are for an increase of about 25% compared to 2013 to nearly 1.25 million units.
This is simply beautiful music to our ears.
And as a result despite continued weakness abroad we expect to increase shipments of grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES to our NAFTA customers.
NAFTA GOES sales were lower than expected in the first quarter of 2013 as customers rebalanced inventories following Hurricane Sandy.
Customers tell us that they expect a slight pick-up in the second quarter with further gains in the second half of 2013.
Let me offer a couple of other points on electrical steel.
Earlier this month the U.S.
Department of Energy issued new rules for electrical distribution transformer efficiency standards.
These new rules are good for America and they're good for AK Steel.
The DOE's ruling ensures that the transformers in America will remain among the most energy-efficient in the world.
And that high-tech electrical steels such as those we manufacture at AK steel will continue to be a very competitive material in the marketplace.
As a leading global producer of some of the highest efficiency electrical steel products available we are very pleased with the DOE's new standards.
Our grain-oriented electrical steel products are positioned well to serve the needs of our electrical power distribution customers for years and years to come.
In fact the new DOE standards offer the potential for increasing the market for GOES products in the United States with respect to certain types of distribution transformers.
On the international electrical steel front however we continue to experience global weakness led by ongoing economic uncertainty in Europe and slower economic growth in Asia.
We expect those conditions to moderate only slightly for the balance of 2013.
Stainless steel sales activity has remained steady with a slight uptick recently and to reflect increasing demand and recover our costs we recently announced a stainless steel price increase on new orders.
While the commodity stainless market continues to reflect a somewhat sluggish level of activity the market for specialty grade stainless products has been better.
For example thus far in 2013 our Coshocton Works products and automotive exhaust grades have exhibited stronger demand and that trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
The just-released MSCI service center inventory report indicated that stainless steel service center inventories remained at about 2.9 months of supply on hand which is better than the historical average level of about 3.5 months.
According to MSCI flat-rolled carbon steel shipments rose slightly in March compared to February.
Flat-rolled carbon inventories were about 3.5% lower than they were at this time last year and typically that's a good thing.
However with the mill lead times running a little lower than normal service centers are attempting to get by with lower inventory levels and when the predicted second half of 2013 increases in demand occur the combined impact of meeting growing orders and replenishing depleted inventory stock should inure to our benefit.
We shall see.
Shifting gears from our markets to our operations compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 we ran our operations at higher rates in the first quarter of 2013.
We built some inventory in advance of our second quarter maintenance outages and to support higher anticipated shipments including automotive shipments in the second quarter and second half of 2013.
In the second quarter we expect to operate at a similar rate as the first quarter despite the fact that we've taken a planned maintenance outage at our Middletown Works blast furnace and have an outage in progress at the steel shop.
In a moment Roger will provide more details as to the cost of those outages.
I'd simply offer that upon completion we will be well positioned to meet the needs of our customers in anticipation of slowly improving market conditions.
From preventative maintenance to backwards integrating the profitable growth initiatives we remain highly focused at AK Steel on making progress in all aspects of our business and on adding value for our shareholders.
In closing as AK Steel's CEO for nearly the past 10 years I've had the and continue to have the great privilege and duty of taking care of our customers employees retirees and shareholders.
But no one does that alone.
Here it is truly a team effort.
Over the years I believe that our team has done a good job taking care of our customers as well as our employees and retirees.
But we also know that we need to do a better job when it comes to taking care of our shareholders and that starts with returning to profitability generating positive cash flow proving the worth of our strategic investments.
I will tell you that all of those initiatives are well underway.
In short we know what we have to do we have put positive numbers on the board show the way for the future.
We get it and we're on it.
We'll continue to do everything we can to control those things under our control.
We'll continue to lower our operating and input costs wherever possible.
But eventually we need a real sustained economic recovery both at home and abroad.
In the meantime we're all in every day at AK Steel believing in better and making better happen continuous improvement in all that we do.
Progress.
Every day and in every way.
Staying on the right track with the right strategy and the right focus with great people all leading to better days ahead for our great company.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
With that here's Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $9.9 million or $0.07 per share for the first quarter of 2013.
These results are a substantial improvement compared to our results for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Shipments for the first quarter of 2013 totaled 1 289 800 tons a decrease of about 116 000 tons compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 and in line with our first quarter guidance.
Lower shipments to the carbon steel spot market in the first quarter were partially offset by increased shipments to the automotive market.
Our average selling price for the first quarter was $1 062 per ton or 5% higher than the fourth quarter and also in line with our guidance for the quarter.
The higher average selling price was due primarily to a higher value added product mix as well as slightly higher average spot market pricing partially offset by lower selling prices globally for electrical steel products.
Revenues for the first quarter totaled $1 370 000 000 roughly 4% less than the prior quarter.
Sales outside the United States for the first quarter totaled approximately $187 million.
This represented about 14% of our total sales for the quarter.
Our results for the first quarter included about $1 million in planned major maintenance outage costs which was about the same as the fourth quarter of 2012.
In the first quarter we benefited from a LIFO credit of $6 million primarily due to the continued decline in raw material costs.
However this credit was $25 million less than the LIFO credit of roughly $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the noncontrolling interests which are included in our operating results.
Our noncontrolling interests consist primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the noncontrolling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2013 was $66.8 million or $52 per ton.
Our first quarter EBITDA performance reflects a $50 million improvement over our adjusted EBITDA of $16.8 million or $12 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2012.
This substantial improvement in our adjusted EBITDA was primarily the net result of an improved sales mix with higher automotive market shipment and lower spot market shipments; lower raw material costs primarily related to iron ore coal and coke energy credits; and these 2 items were partially offset by higher operating costs associated with our Middletown Works blast furnace as well as a substantially lower LIFO credit.
Now turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.
For the first quarter of 2013 our capital investments totaled approximately $16 million.
As expected working capital was a slight consumer of $10 million of cash during the first quarter as we increased our inventories to support anticipated customer requirements.
It is important to note that our continued focus on working capital management resulted in a significant improvement compared to what we typically experience in the first quarter.
For example last year's first quarter working capital was a use of $150 million.
We ended the first quarter of 2013 with very strong liquidity of $1.05 billion and we had no borrowings under our $1.1 billion credit facility during the first quarter.
With this level of liquidity we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers our operations and execute our strategic plans.
In regards to pension funding our 2013 pension funding requirements remain at about $180 million.
In the first quarter we completed a $30 million pension contribution.
Earlier this month we contributed an additional $41 million to the pension fund and we will be making the roughly $110 million of remaining contributions in the second half of 2013.
As we look beyond 2013 we are pleased that our updated estimates of our future pension funding requirements have decreased primarily due to the recently published IRS interest rate and our solid pension investment returns.
Our 2014 expected pension contributions dropped by approximately $30 million from $240 million to approximately $210 million.
Our estimated 2015 pension contributions have also decreased from approximately $150 million to $125 million another reduction of approximately $25 million.
In summary our pension contributions for 2014 and 2015 are projected to be more than $50 million lower than our prior projections.
Now turning to our outlook.
As is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the second quarter of June -- in June of this year.
I would note however that we had a planned maintenance outage at our Middletown Works blast furnace in April and the outage was successfully completed this past weekend.
As a result we expect to incur major maintenance outage costs of approximately $21 million in the second quarter compared to $1 million in the first quarter of 2013 reflecting an increase to our cost of approximately $20 million in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
However we expect these increased maintenance costs in the second quarter to be mostly offset as a result of lower cost in other areas primarily raw materials.
Let me conclude by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time Jim Al and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I got a quick question on the projects.
It seems like the market is kind of struggling particularly on the flat-rolled side.
So far this year I've seen demand I think surprisingly downside by most people accounts.
And I was wondering if conditions like this continue and persist for say 1 year or 2 what sort of decisions would you make as far as slowing down CapEx? And is there anything at this point that would cause you to change your time line on the projects that you have laid out? Evan thanks so much for asking the question.
We are actually thrilled with our projects.
We were confident in them before and we're even more so today.
If you really step back from it all I think to be 100% self-sufficient or 0 is really sort of putting all your eggs in one basket and that's a pretty huge gamble in this very volatile environment that we have here for raw materials.
So if you want to kind of get in the middle of that which is exactly where our strategy takes us we want to be 50%.
It really serves as a hedge and so we saw iron ore prices at up to nearly $200 and we've seen them come back to $100 and we're sitting somewhere between $135 and $140 today.
Just to remind you with an IODEX at $120 which is a long way from where we're at the annual savings that we have indicated is around $90 million.
So they'd be even higher today.
We are enjoying the pullback in the market recently and one never knows exactly where that's going to go.
You've still got really oligopolistic type behavior from the major producers.
I suspect that they'll continue to exert their influence in the marketplace.
But we have a very low capital cost we have a very low operating cost that's going to position us really really well when it comes to either iron ore in Magnetation and/or coal at AK Coal.
So no we're not backing off in the least in terms of capital spending.
We're moving full speed ahead.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had was I was just -- I'm curious on your thoughts on one of your competitors had come out and made some statements regarding its unwillingness to participate in contracts that are CRU minus some discount which has kind of I guess become the industry practice as of late.
I wanted to understand I guess what you thought about this whether or not you'd support a similar move and also if you can give us some sense of how much your business is tied to these types of agreements to give us some insight on what the impact could be if the situation was improved.
Yes.
Again Luke thank you for the question.
That's an excellent one.
I guess as we look at these things the first comment I'd say is that all of our pricing decisions are made independently taking into account a variety of things market conditions of course our cost situation the value of the product that we bring to the customer our need to generate a reasonable return to sustain ourselves and grow.
Frankly we've looked hard at the CRU index for a while.
The index itself I think we don't typically have a problem with but we certainly do have a problem with something that would be CRU minus.
Arguably some of us ourselves might look for CRU plus given the value that we think we bring to the marketplace.
But I guess I'd emphasize the following point that CRU and CRU minus sort of imply a commodity type product.
We are a value-added producer.
We aim for the toughest applications the most demanding customer type situations whether it's in the carbon or the specialty steel market.
So in that world that sort of averages everybody and has this sort of one common denominator price that's not really the only thing that we bring to the party.
I think as I've said before probably on this call and elsewhere price is what you pay value is what you get.
I didn't make that up Warren Buffet did.
But that's certainly our approach.
We have read the press reports that others are planning to move away from using CRU.
And again as I say we've long felt that CRU minus deals do not accurately reflect market conditions particularly when it comes to contract business which is the vast majority of our business today.
It's probably about 2/3 of our business and we're growing that business as we grow automotive and so forth.
So to the extent that some try to use that as a floor or ceiling or whatever look again I'd go back to there's a lot of things that go into these things including the overall relationship.
To the other part of your question about how many deals do we have that might be dependent on CRU or CRU something I would say it's probably in the 15% to 20% kind of range would be my estimate of that Luke.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess secondly on the -- I just noticed on the -- on your income statement that there's been some accounting changes related to SunCoke.
Historically it's -- I guess you've had a pre-tax number in the operating line and you've booked some tax and then you -- the noncontrolling interest is that net of tax.
Should we now assume that given the change that there's no tax impact on the P&amp;L and the number that's in the noncontrolling interest line is the same as in the operating results? Yes.
The noncontrolling interest line now is the net of tax number.
So our -- that's pre-tax I'm sorry.
And it is a -- so it's a cleaner version now when you're looking at our tax expense.
You're not getting the confusion that we had previously I would say that included tax expense of both SunCoke and of AK.
Yes because SunCoke now has a master limited partnership structure.
A master limited partnership does not have any tax essentially.
All the tax associated with the master limited partnership is new as to the partners.
And so consequently SunCoke won't have any tax expense.
And since SunCoke won't have any tax expense we won't have any tax expense in our tax line.
So going forward all of our tax expenses our own tax expense back to what it used to be before we had the noncontrolling interest.
And so now it will all be contained in the noncontrolling interest.
And I want to emphasize none of this will have any effect on AK's financial results.
In other words AK's net income is the same regardless of this.
They're just moving it between the 2 categories.
So our tax expense now is just related to that change in our LIFO valuation.
Right.
Our next question comes from Richard Garchitorena of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question you mentioned that AK Coal you expect production to start up in June.
Can you remind us again how much production you expect in 2013? And how do you think about start-up costs for this year? Richard we're -- right now the expectation is that AK Coal will produce roughly 100 000 tons in 2013 again with that ramping up hopefully through 2014.
So that by 2015 we would be at 1 million tons on a run-rate basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then cost is there any -- do you have any expectation on how that will pull through this year? Well again what we've indicated is that again that at an assumed $120 per ton rate of value of coal we would be assuming about a $30 million benefit on a run-rate basis.
So we've indicated that going forward.
Essentially looking at cost somewhat below $9 or below is what we'd be looking for.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just turning to the quarter you pointed out energy credits from SunCoke.
How much was that specifically? And is that something we should be expecting in future quarters? No I think it's really a onetime kind of deal.
We had equally offsetting sort of onetime other costs.
I don't know both of which would've been I think under $10 million or something like that.
But the fact of the matter is I think on a go-forward basis it would come out similarly though the other items that we had.
We had some fuel rate issues at a blast furnace that nicked us a bit that -- with the outage that we're taking we should not be seeing that either.
So both onetime items both hitting us in the first quarter and not recurring.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question any other outages in addition to Middletown for the second half for this year? None principally planned.
We will have our normal cadre of planned outages but nothing that would rise to the level of same sort of materiality we're seeing in the second quarter.
Nothing of a planned nature that is.
Knock on wood.
Our next question comes from Chris Olin of Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to get some more information on the electrical side of the business.
First of all were the shipment levels down versus the first quarter of 2012 last year? And then can you give us an update on what the mix looks like between NAFTA and international today? Chris I would say I don't have the numbers right in front of me but we're down probably slightly from a year ago first quarter.
We're down slightly from the fourth quarter levels.
Clearly as I mentioned in my prepared remarks there has been a pretty significant shift going on here whereby we used to be roughly 50-50 domestic or NAFTA if you will and international.
That's probably moved more towards the 60-40 if not the 2/3 1/3 sort of realm in terms of our overall business.
And I think just given what we're seeing internationally that's likely going to remain the case.
We could even grow a bit further in the NAFTA environment.
Yes that was my question.
If we did remain on track you had 1 million starts and then plus 1 year after is there a feeling for how high NAFTA could be in terms of like a peak or like a 2-year outlook? I guess as we look out we continue to see this slow recovery although it's going to take some financial discipline and a lot of action still to come in Europe.
And that will eventually happen and I suspect you could see us between now and then get to 70% or 75%.
Would we get to as high as 80%? That's probably a peak and might be a little further than we think it's going to go but look the -- as you know 1 million housing starts is really not all that much.
We'd love to see with proper controls and so forth get back to 1.5 million 2 million in which case America would be booming again.
And that the need for transformers be on the pole or on the ground in these subdivisions would be much improved from where it is today.
But again just as with automotive as in the case of housing we're way back off the bottom.
We've roughly doubled the trough and we're delighted about that.
It's a long long way to go from here.
The last question I have and maybe I missed it did you comment on what the 2013 contracts look like? I don't think we've commented on them.
Fortunately they're in place because again with capacity being what it is and some of the advances of foreigners pricing pressure has been brought to bear.
The vast majority of our NAFTA business is under contract.
And I would say that it's fair to say that it was a challenge to get all the contracts on to levels we wanted them.
So it still remains very very good business for us but I would say contract pricing's down ever so slightly this year.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First question is Jim when you look at your 3 major product categories electrical stainless and carbon which one do you -- rank them if you could in terms of ability to drive your volume and earnings improvement as we look out to the rest of 2013.
Each really plays an important role.
I think we've shown slides before in investor presentations in terms of sort of margin potential and margin contribution.
You've got a base there that would be carbon sort of stainless in the middle and electrical on top.
But the capacity that we have certainly would rank just the opposite of that.
And again when we're shipping something less than 1 300 000 tons the added capacity we have on top of that is really phenomenal.
There were quarters as you know when we regularly shipped 1 600 000 tons to the leverage.
I suppose that the highest degree of leverage comes there from the carbon side of the business.
We've got a lot of capacity as well on stainless.
We're surely not running the Butler #5 EAF nearly as hard or as often as we wanted to so there's upside there.
And electrical is about 60% of where we'd like to see it so -- if that.
So I think really you've got potential on all fronts with probably the most leverage the upside in carbon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I've got is on the stainless side I think ThyssenKrupp they're supposed to be up and running now but we haven't heard much about it.
I was wondering if you've seen them in the marketplace just one additional competitor as you're talking to customers and marketing your own product.
I think that they're still not at full ramped up capacity.
I think the primary focus of Noxon and Outokumpu has been to sort of roll up what's going on in Europe.
I suspect that they have their hands full over there.
But we understand the melt shop has been -- they continue to construct that and it will likely be a bigger challenge to come.
Again a lot of the product and they can describe better than I can I think they're going to be displacing imports they're going to be displacing other products Mexinox et cetera.
And really a lot of what they're targeting as is the case with carbon which I don't know that is well followed is really the pure commodity type business.
That is not a large part of our stainless business.
It's a very very small part of our business.
Again we really look to the higher value added segments the Coshocton specialties the 409 serving high temperature automotive exhaust applications.
That will continue to be where we focus notwithstanding the pressures in the down and dirty commodity segments of these markets.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on impact of the maintenance outage.
I know that you had mentioned in the press release and in your remarks that it would be offset by raw material costs but is that offset versus what expectations were before or do you expect more raw material benefit now than say you had expected at the beginning of this year when you reported fourth quarter results that will offset the additional $21 million cost from the maintenance outage? Our expectations on raw material costs really haven't changed.
As we mentioned the key driver was coal that has not changed for the year.
Iron ore continues to be volatile so up and down.
But no that's based on what we talked about on the first quarter back in the beginning of the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's basically $20 million of higher cost versus what people had been expecting before? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question about the maintenance outage is are you -- I know that it seems that U.S.
steel is -- steel production is down year-over-year but it seems as though most mills are loathe to take down too much more capacity because there is a concern about sacrificing market share especially with lead times being short.
Regarding the Middletown maintenance outage is there not a concern on AK's part about sacrificing market share? And is the notion on your part that the market's kind of weak enough such so that you won't be sacrificing too much in the second quarter by taking down Middletown because shipments won't be that great anyway? Or is it just that you have to do this you have to have this maintenance outage now for technological reasons? I think there's a number of points.
I can take that Justine let me just offer.
We take outages when it's really prudent to do so.
We felt it was prudent to do so.
This was an outage that we were likely going to take in the third quarter we simply advanced it to the second.
It so happens that marketing conditions really aren't that wonderful right now so it sort of makes good sense.
We suspect that they're going to be better.
We anticipate they're going to be better we certainly hope they're going to be better later in the year so this positions us well for that.
And we produced sufficient material ahead of the outage to be able to accommodate that.
We make conscious decisions really sitting around this table on a weekly basis as to how many tons to take to the market or not take to the market based on a variety of factors.
Obviously we love to make more.
We're a high fixed-cost business it helps lower our cost.
But we probably took 100 000 tons or thereabouts of product out of the marketplace in the first quarter a conscious decision on our part just because we didn't like prices.
We continue to evaluate those things.
Again week-to-week month-to-month quarter-to-quarter and in recent years have made many decisions along those lines just because we did not particularly care for the pricing.
So again it's an independent decision it's one that we make based on a variety of factors selling prices condition of our furnaces and so forth.
One of the nice things that we have in the company I'd just close with this thought on this question is we have enormous flexibility.
And we have the ability to make product in Middletown we have the ability to make product in Ashland and what is frequently overlooked is that we're not just a blast furnace company.
Yes we are an integrated steel producer but we also have -- we actually have more EAFs than we have blast furnaces in the company.
And our new #5 EAF at Butler Works is sitting ready willing and able to help us out and we're challenging it more this quarter as well.
So we're not consciously giving up market share or anything else.
We're serving our customers and going after all the profitable orders that are out there.
Our question comes from Nate Carruthers of Steel Market Intelligence.
So I noticed that other income declined to $1.8 million from $4.3 million in the fourth quarter.
I was just wondering if that was due to reduced earnings from Magnetation or something else there.
Yes there's 2 factors that drove that one of them is Magnetation.
As the IODEX dropped we saw a drop in Magnetation's earnings and our share of it that was about $1.2 million.
The balance of it is primarily related to foreign exchange where the euro dropped from 1.32 down to 1.28.
Yes we had a foreign exchange gain in the fourth quarter and [indiscernible] loss in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then I guess I was just wondering if you expect any meaningful changes to your product mix in the second quarter versus the first quarter? I don't know if there's anything particularly meaningful Nate that we would point out for guidance purposes at this point.
Again we'll give more complete guidance in June.
We do continue to anticipate growth in automotive and would look for higher automotive shipments that's our sense of things.
And I think we'll continue to move towards richer mixes is really what I would say.
We saw that in the first quarter we'll continue to look for more of that going forward.
Our next question comes from Dave Katz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that you could provide a little more color on the timing of iron ore cycle through.
I know historically there's been about a 4-month lag.
I think that at the end of last year you purchased some iron ore at the lower prices.
I was curious what of that you still have in inventory if you could give some indication of what the prices were and when we'll see the higher prices in first quarter cycle through.
Pretty much on our inventories the raw material should pretty much be cycled through from year end to what we ended with our iron ore inventories.
As you know we consume roughly 5.5 million to 6 million tons a year.
So we would have already cycle through all of that iron ore here in the first quarter.
And same with coal we do not carry a lot of coal inventory but that would have already cycled through.
Research Division</strong> And you haven't hedged any iron ore? We do have some iron ore hedged roughly 1 million tons.
Research Division</strong> And what's the price at which that was hedged? The price was lower.
Most of the hedging was done actually in the fall of last year.
So the prices actually on an IODEX basis were lower which is one of the reasons David we had so much confidence in talking about our benefits going into this year such that we won't be impacted by some of the movements in the marketplace.
But in large measure the hedging was done in 3Q and 4Q of last year when the IODEX was at lower levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Al just some clarity on when that 1 million tons will be exhausted or how long the hedge runs.
It ratchets throughout the year David.
Those hedges were put in place about 1 2 3 and 4 quarters probably the preponderance in the first 3 quarters a little bit less in the fourth quarter.
But not to be too specific we -- I mean it's going to benefit us throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of your competitors announced a price increase.
It doesn't seem like that was glommed onto by the rest of the industry.
Do you guys have any view on when you might try to put through a price increase? Well we haven't been trying David in terms of price increases this year or previously.
We haven't announced one recently but those that we have announced I would say did have the benefit of establishing a floor for our selling prices.
I think it's fair to say that pricing remains depressed and that was really behind -- a part of the rationale behind our reducing the first quarter shipments that we took out.
I would say this though that it is the season typically for pickup in pricing.
Construction season frequently kicks in about now we haven't seen it yet in any meaningful way.
And I'd also offer that given where prices are they're certainly not out of line with foreign offerings that we would not expect to see a lot of import activity and that really conditions remain pretty good for prices to pick up from here.
Certainly our expectation again without giving specific guidance is a positive one in terms of a shipment trend.
Bright spot again remains automotive and it's benefiting us in a big way.
So I think we're optimistic but we have no particular announcement today.
Our next question comes from Mark Parr of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I had a couple of things.
The first is from a bookkeeping perspective.
The LIFO credit that you took in the first quarter is that a reasonable assumption here for the second quarter? As you know Mark LIFO is a kind of a moving target at all times.
It fluctuates with the raw materials but it is a fair assumption to be at least looking forward that what we would take is 1/4 of our forecast for the year in the first quarter.
And whatever you think will be happening with raw materials you can use for your projection.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I've just made the comment or asked the question based on your comment that looks like the second quarter raw material down draft was pretty much in line with what you thought it was 90 days ago so that's where they came from.
Okay.
Secondly and Jim I appreciate your comments on the cost position for Magnetation.
I was wondering if you could update your thoughts on AK Coal.
I know back in July I think it was July you had indicated you thought that the cost to produce a washed ton would be 20% to 30% below the spot market at that point which I think was somewhere around $190.
And that would have implied something in the $150 range for a cost to produce a washed ton of coal.
Is there any update -- first of all is that correct? And secondly is there any update you can give us on the progress at AK Coal? The progress overall is outstanding.
We've put together a superb team.
We were just down there and they're coming along exceedingly well and just chomping at the bit to get cooking.
I think we will be among the low-cost producers anywhere period.
And I don't know that I'd update our guidance at this point.
We really are excited to get started and have a better feel for exactly what those costs are going to be.
I think the guidance that we gave before Al you may be able to help me out here.
Right.
Was...
Well the guidance that we gave Jim is again assuming $120 value that -- and again giving roughly 1 million tons of production that we would get a benefit of $30 million which would imply a cost in the $90 area for us when we're up and running on an all-in basis.
And again buttressing what you just said that certainly makes us very very competitive and we're very comfortable with that given the dynamics of the mining plant that we have in place there in Somerset.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really encouraging.
And just last if I could.
Any comments or thoughts that you have on the potential for some abatement of grain-oriented electrical import momentum? Anything on the horizon you can see there? We watch very carefully who's doing what.
We don't have an announcement on that today but we're highly sensitive to some of the actions of the foreign competitors and what they're doing.
As you know the world has added a fair amount of capacity given the challenges in Asia and Europe.
They're looking for a home for it.
And we're mindful that some of that has shown up on our shores.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> A big question on pricing.
You've made the case over the last few years about how you were building into your contracts some kind of variability to reflect cost changes.
Now I hear your competitors all saying that oh we're going to offer up to 6 months fixed price.
The question is are these guys suicidal? Well I guess you could draw your own conclusion with respect to that.
The idea behind variable pricing was simply this: When raw materials were going up up and away we could not sit idly by and watch our earnings and cash flow dwindle and not get above this.
So we did really with all of our contract customers different forms with each depending on the nature of the relationship and so forth but made good sense then.
We also as part of those negotiations said look work with us on the upside we'll work with you if things come back all of which is intended to sort of protect the margin if you will.
And we've done that.
I think the days of fixed contracts to each his own.
If one is seeking a certain volume commitment and as you know there are an awful lot of players out there with a lot more volume than we have who have to be very concerned about where that volume is going to go in this environment perhaps they would do things that you would consider or I might consider suicidal.
We will continue to again make hopefully what are very very good choices on behalf of our company and our shareholders when it comes to pricing deals and they'll continue to include variable pricing mechanisms of one sort or another.
Inc.</strong> And next question involves the ThyssenKrupp plant in Alabama.
As you I'm sure know better than I do when you start up a plant like that initially you make commodity product.
But as you get your products approved by customers you gravitate up the scale.
Are you seeing their product getting more into the automotive side of the business which is where they should be by now? Yes.
I think to a small extent at this point I would say Chuck I think given some of the things that are well published as far as the assets being for sale and so forth it's really delayed any meaningful activity there in my view.
But I suppose we're within months of finding out who's going to own the facilities.
We've been in sort of a watch-and-wait scenario and perhaps we'll all find out soon.
I would just be clear about one thing as it relates to TK or maybe a couple of points.
First some 15 years ago we started up a facility which I think you and others had the opportunity to tour when it was brand-new called Rockport Works.
Rockport is running fantastically well.
We've got an awesome team down there a great plant manager.
They're making it happen every day.
And TK could only wish that 1 day they run as well or whoever the new owners are as Rockport is.
Rest assured that the industry leader which is us in product quality delivery and customer service looks forward to competing successfully with whoever winds up owning the TK Calvert equipment.
We've developed relationships over years over decades in many cases and we are not ranked #1 in overall customer satisfaction by chance.
We've earned that reputation.
We don't intend to give it up because the name changed on the door in Calvert.
So we say bring it on we'll compete with anybody any day.
I'd be far more concerned if you were #2 or 3 or 4.
But having said all that we'll see.
This is a very interesting time in our business and we'll see how things play out.
Our final question comes from David Lipschitz of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
Do we have a CapEx guidance for the year? Yes David.
It's $150 million.
$60 million in our capital investments and then $90 million with our 2 strategics [ph].
Right.
And that's broken down 70-20.
$70 million to Magnetation and $20 million to coal.
Research Division</strong> And my second question more big picture.
Obviously auto is pretty much back to where it was.
Non-res seems to be slowly picking up.
How much more in the non-res or other parts do we have to get the prices back up to where I don't know where it used to be or where they need to be for you guys to actually make money so to speak? We're knocking on the door making money as you saw this quarter and that's with shipments at less than 1 300 000 tons.
And running our facilities in the high 70s and knocking on the door of 80%.
Again we won't seek any awards for that other than to say that that's about where we would expect to be.
I think there certainly is more volume upside we're taking market share in automotive.
There is certainly more upside in related stainless high-end products.
There's a dramatic amount more upside in electrical for us.
Again I think other than sort of automotive and housing just now really coming back the non-res has not to any great extent kicked in.
And I don't know that I have a figure where I'd say when that's going to sort of move the needle.
But look we need at some point a sustained real economic recovery.
Right? And we're just simply not there yet.
We're better than we were but we're not all the way back.
And I think that's still going to take a while.
But in the meantime we're not sort of resting on our laurels.
We continue to do all the things you'd expect us to do staying lean and mean getting after it from a cost side.
We've got game changers that are just around the corner in both AK Coal and Magnetation and we have a host of other things that our management team and our board is looking at very seriously that could again further improve the trajectory for AK Steel.
So we're excited about our momentum happy to be where we're at but know that we have more progress to make in the days ahead.
Research Division</strong> Does that mean if non-res really doesn't see anything that prices are going to stay depressed for a long time that auto really doesn't matter that much because construction's so low? No auto matters a great deal.
And I think when you see the announcement that continue to happen in this country including I think last Friday's announcement by Toyota for example that they're going to make Lexus in Kentucky that is again more music to our ears.
I'll be meeting with them in a couple of days to talk further about our participation in that effort.
We're growing there.
We're growing with everybody who's bringing product here and America is once again given raw materials given energy costs a great great place and a wonderful workforce to make things.
And when we make things in America we win.
Well once again everybody thank you very much for joining us on today's call for your ongoing interest in AK Steel.
Have a great day a better tomorrow and hopefully a better quarter.
Bye for now.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Albert E.
Ferrara Jr.
Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations; and Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Mr.
Ferrara.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business and following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our second quarter 2013 financial results.
And together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices cost operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim for his comments.
Jim? Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us on today's conference call and thank you Al for that introduction and for being with me on 41 of these conference calls.
Right up front I want to take this opportunity to recognize Al for his distinguished service to AK Steel for more than a decade.
Al recently announced that he will be retiring from the company effective August 31.
That means that today is his final conference call with us.
And on behalf of the Board of Directors the executive officers and all of us at AK Steel we certainly want to take this opportunity to wish Al a happy healthy and lengthy retirement.
Turning to our business let me offer a few thoughts on our second quarter 2013 results and our outlook.
We continue to make progress at AK Steel although that progress might not always be obvious in our numbers.
But with appropriate adjustments to establish an apples-to-apples comparison AK Steel's second quarter 2013 operating results were in fact slightly better than our first quarter 2013 operating performance.
Said another way excluding the costs associated with maintenance outages at our Middletown Works blast furnace both planned and unplanned our second quarter results represented an improvement over our first quarter of 2013 results.
At AK Steel continuous improvement in everything we do is our philosophy and our approach on behalf of our shareholders our customers and all of our other constituents.
Unfortunately however sometimes your forward progress is halted due to events that are outside of your control that was certainly the case in the second quarter of 2013 but there were also a number of bright spots during the quarter.
At the top of the list of our second quarter bright spots was the continued strength shown by the automotive market.
We experienced our best automotive shipment quarter since the third quarter of 2007.
In fact according to published data it was the best June for light vehicle sales in some 8 years.
It appears that consumers are now better able to afford vehicles due to a combination of low interest rates credit availability and somewhat better economic conditions.
Increased household wealth from recovering home prices and a rising stock market should also provide support for more automotive sales gains down the road you might say.
Automotive which represented 45% of our 2012 revenues grew to 50% of our first half 2013 revenues.
This market continues to be a source of strength for AK Steel both for our carbon value-added shipments and for our autochrome shipments as well.
With auto build rates expected to approach 16.2 million units for 2013 AK Steel is ready to help our automotive customers meet increasing consumer demand.
Notwithstanding the strength of the automotive market it's fair to say that we continue to face challenging market conditions in each of our other chosen markets and especially in the commodity carbon and stainless steel markets as well as the international electrical steel market.
Increasingly we are moving away from spot market business in favor of higher-margin contract business.
Our mix of business in the first half of 2013 was approximately 70% contract and 30% spot.
Longer term our objective is to further increase contract sales while decreasing our participation in the spot market where typically the only thing that sets you apart from the competition is price.
While price is an important consideration we want to continue to align our company and our products with those customers who place value not only on price but also on quality delivery and customer service.
That's because our niche is high-end value-added products and we'll continue to align ourselves with those customers who value the total package of what we offer.
While we're not a large player in the spot market we are indeed a participant and we make an independent assessment on a daily basis if not hour to hour as to our spot market pricing based on order intake rates steelmaking input costs and a host of other factors.
During the second quarter spot market hot-rolled selling prices declined to about $560 per ton 5-6-0.
That happens to be the lowest pricing level that we've seen since the fourth quarter of the year 2010.
In the second quarter we announced 2 carbon steel spot market price increases that were eventually realized and we're currently quoting new sales opportunities at $650 per ton for hot-rolled bands.
As we speak our lead times for carbon steel products have lengthened.
For example hot-rolled lead times are extended to late August spot market cold-rolled and coated availability is even tighter with lead times extended to late September.
In what is known as the 300 series or commodity stainless steel market which is a relatively small portion of our stainless and overall sales at AK Steel market conditions remain brutal.
A market already characterized by overcapacity has not been helped by the entrance of Outokumpu and its new capacity from Alabama.
I might add that declining nickel prices have not been helpful either.
Where possible we are opportunistic in the 300 series market but we're mostly focused on increasing 400 series production to serve the increasing needs of our automotive customers.
Now let me offer a few thoughts on the grain-oriented electrical steel or what we call the GOES market.
Our second quarter shipments of GOES products increased on a sequential quarterly basis by nearly 10%.
We've gained market share and we've benefited from a housing recovery within the United States.
Housing starts are projected to total nearly 1 million units for the year 2013 compared to 781 000 units for the year 2012.
But analyzing the details behind the numbers yields some interesting insight.
For the first 5 months of this year the data on housing starts shows that single-family home starts increased by 23% but multifamily home starts rose by a whopping 38%.
Why is that relevant? It's relevant because AK Steel has little participation in the multifamily home starts business since these developments typically use a dry type of transformer which uses a lower-grade product and where we have less participation.
On the export GOES front oversupply continues to be a very significant issue.
The European debt crisis and slower economic growth in China in India and in South America put downward pressure on both sales volumes and selling prices.
Speaking of export GOES one bright spot looms however.
This October India is expected to implement the long-awaited BIS minimum international quality standards.
This should spur demand for prime as opposed to secondary GOES products and represents an opportunity for AK Steel to increase our sales into this growing market.
Our GOES product quality delivery and customer service are all excellent both at home and abroad.
But until a better supply-and-demand balance comes to pass we'll continue to slug it out for market share in the global grain-oriented electrical steel space.
Whining about the markets is -- well it's what losers do.
Winners find a way to win in spite of market conditions.
At AK Steel we're not sitting around here lamenting less-than-perfect market conditions.
What we are doing is finding a way to win by focusing on doing a great job on those things over which we have control namely safety quality and productivity our business basics if you will and by bringing to successful completion and to fruition our strategic raw material investments which are expected to substantially improve our competitive cost position.
In terms of our business basics our first priority remains keeping our employees safe while they are in our employ.
In the second quarter our Coshocton works was recognized by the state of Ohio for outstanding safety performance having received the 100% award for safety for operating the entire year of 2012 without any lost-time injuries or illnesses.
AK Tube's Walbridge facility was also recognized in the quarter by the state of Ohio with this very same award.
And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that employees at our Zanesville Works plant have now worked more than 1 000 days more than 1 000 days without experiencing an OSHA recordable injury.
I'm going to take this opportunity to congratulate our employees at those locations on achieving these milestones and encourage our entire workforce to remain vigilant when it comes to safety every day every shift every hour and every minute.
Moving from employees to customers at AK Steel we make every effort to serve our customers better than any other steelmaker with a combination of things including superior product quality on-time delivery and outstanding customer service.
Over the years based on these metrics we've performed quite well in the eyes of our customers and they're the ones that matter.
Utilizing the Jacobson independent survey of our customers as a measuring device we continued that tradition in the second quarter of 2013.
Compared to our carbon steel integrated competitors AK Steel was ranked #1 in quality in customer service and in on-time delivery for the second quarter.
Together these performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our carbon steel market.
On specialty steel front which encompasses both stainless and electrical steel we were ranked #1 in quality and on-time delivery and those performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our specialty steel markets.
These outstanding performances in service to our great customers are the result of the fantastic team effort by all of our employees.
I congratulate our entire workforce on a job very well done.
We continued to serve our customers well in the past month despite a significant production disruption.
Let me take a moment or 2 to provide you with an update on the status of our Middletown Works blast furnace.
On June 22 we experienced an unplanned outage at that location due to a mechanical failure.
We took the furnace down in a controlled fashion made the necessary repairs and have been in the process of restarting the blast furnace for roughly the past week or 10 days.
I'm delighted to report that we're making iron steel again at Middletown Works and that the ramp up to full production is more than 90% complete as I speak to you today.
Take a moment to express my gratitude for the extraordinary efforts of our engineers operators manufacturing planners and our purchasing and transportation organization as well as our primary repair contractor Graycor to get us back in this mode as safely and as quickly as possible.
I'd also like to acknowledge the efforts of our sales organization and the assistance and support of our customers during this unplanned outage.
Our customers represent the lifeblood of AK Steel and we greatly appreciate their understanding and cooperation.
In a moment Roger will quantify the costs associated with this event that is those costs that were incurred in the second quarter as well as those costs that will be incurred in the second half of 2013.
Let me emphasize however that the unplanned outage at Middletown Works that took place in June to the best of our knowledge is unrelated to the successful planned outage that took place at the same blast furnace in April.
The planned outage was successfully completed on time and on budget but it added about $20 million in cost to our second quarter performance.
The bottom line is this: With our steelmaking facilities located in Middletown Ohio; Ashland Kentucky; Butler Pennsylvania; and Mansfield Ohio we are well positioned to serve our customers for the rest of 2013 and beyond.
Most of you know at AK Steel we manufacture some of the finest carbon stainless and electrical steel products in the world.
And thanks to our capital investments and new-era labor agreements we have excellent operational flexibility when it comes to where we make our products.
And that flexibility paid off in a big way recently as we challenged our Butler Works and Ashton Works to step up at a time of need and they did exactly that.
In the process Butler's #5 electric arc furnace set new monthly and quarterly production records.
Again let me offer my thanks to all of our employees for a job well done in overcoming adversity.
Speaking of our employees let me take just a moment to highlight the excellent progress that our employees are making at AK Coal.
On June 21 we obtained our permit to operate the North Fork mine in Southwestern Pennsylvania and mining activities commenced some 3 days later.
The ramp up is progressing as planned additional permit applications have been submitted and we expect to see receive those permits in 2014 as we ramp up to full production in the year 2015.
Moving to our iron ore joint venture with Magnetation they have all of their significant permits in hand and construction activities for the pellet plant are accelerating in Reynolds Indiana.
They remain on if not \ ahead of schedule for a startup by the end of 2014 and a ramp up to full production in the year 2015.
In June of this year in recognition of the importance of AK Coal and Magnetation to AK Steel's future we received the Best Mergers and Acquisitions Award from American Metal Market.
We appreciate receiving this honor and we remain very excited about the value these investments can bring to AK Steel starting in the very near future and continuing for many years to come.
We're building long-term cost competitiveness through our strategic raw material investments.
And when fully ramped up we expect that they will be among the lowest-cost producers of low-vol coal met coal and iron ore pellets in North America.
And when the ramp ups are complete we will have achieved our goal of being 50% self-sufficient in our key steelmaking inputs of met coal and iron ore pellets.
On top of that we have a host of other opportunities significant opportunities at that to further reduce costs and enhance our margins at AK Steel.
In closing let me say that the first half of 2013 was tougher than we've expected but we responded to the challenges.
And while we expect the second half to be better it won't be easy.
Then again this is the steel business it's never easy.
And that's just fine with us it's the life we've chosen because we love making things in America.
And we'll continue to make our way from here to there taking care of our employees serving our customers better than any other steelmaker and lowering our costs where possible just as fast as we can.
I remain confident that our best days are ahead of us at AK Steel.
And thank you all very much for your attention.
With that here's Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $40.4 million or $0.30 per share for the second quarter 2013.
As Jim mentioned our second quarter results were impacted by substantial planned as well as unplanned outage costs at our Middletown Works blast furnace.
As we expected our results for the second quarter included $22 million in planned major maintenance outage costs which was about $21 million higher than in the first quarter.
However our second quarter results were also impacted by approximately $6 million for costs related to the unplanned outage at our Middletown blast furnace.
Thus the impact of these outages dampened our second quarter performance.
Even with this unplanned blast furnace outage our shipments for the second quarter of 2013 increased by 34 000 tons or about 3% to 1 323 700 tons compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This was slightly lower than our guidance for the second quarter as a result of the unplanned blast furnace incident.
While we experienced lower shipments to the carbon steel spot market and electrical steel market in the second quarter compared to first quarter we did achieve higher shipments to the automotive market.
Our average selling price for the second quarter was $1 061 per ton virtually identical to our average selling price in the first quarter and slightly better than our guidance for the second quarter.
The average selling price in the second quarter reflects the improvement in value-added shipments which was offset by lower spot market prices for carbon steel products compared to the previous quarter.
Revenues for the second quarter totaled $1 405 000 000 roughly 3% higher than the prior quarter.
In the second quarter we benefited from a LIFO credit of $12.4 million reflecting the continued decline in raw material cost.
This compares to a LIFO credit of $6 million in the first quarter.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interests which are included in our operating results.
Our non-controlling interests consist primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the non-controlling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2013 was $47.5 million or $36 per ton.
This compares to an adjusted EBITDA of $66.8 million or $52 per ton in the first quarter.
I believe it is important to note that the decline in our adjusted EBITDA was primarily the result of the planned and unplanned outages which resulted in costs that were $27 million higher than the first quarter.
Thus without these outages we would have had an improvement in adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Moving to our results for the first 6 months of 2013 revenues for the first half were nearly $2.8 billion compared to approximately $3 billion in the first half of 2012.
Shipments for the first 6 months of 2013 were 2 613 500 tons a 2% decrease compared to the first 6 months of 2012.
We are pleased to have achieved higher automotive market shipments during this time frame as compared to the same period in 2012.
However the higher automotive shipments were more than offset by lower spot market carbon and electrical steel shipments.
The decline in spot market prices has resulted from continuing challenges -- challenging conditions in both the domestic and global marketplace.
Our average selling price for the first half of 2013 was $1 061 per ton a decrease of $83 per ton or roughly 7% compared to the first half of last year.
In regards to our operations we incurred $23 million in planned major maintenance outage costs during the first half of 2013 compared to roughly $2 million during the 6 months of 2012.
In addition as previously mentioned we incurred $6 million in unplanned outage costs.
At the bottom line for the first 6 months of 2013 we reported a net loss of $50.3 million compared to a net loss of $736 million for the first half of 2012.
Our results for the first 6 months of 2012 included a noncash income tax charge of approximately $736 million as a result of a change in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance recorded in the second quarter of 2012.
Now turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.
For the second quarter of 2013 our capital investments totaled $15.5 million about the same amount as in the first quarter.
As expected working capital consumed approximately $53 million of cash during the second quarter reflecting the normal seasonal fluctuation in inventories and our semiannual interest payments that primarily occur in the second and fourth quarters.
It is important to note that our continued focus on working capital management resulted in a significant improvement compared to what we have typically experienced in the first half of the year.
In the first half of 2013 working capital consumed $63 million.
In comparison in the first half of both 2011 and 2012 working capital consumed more than $230 million in each of those periods.
The primary driver of this improved performance is related to our continued efforts to lower our raw material inventory levels.
On the investment front in the second quarter we contributed $50 million to our strategic investment in Magnetation.
Taking all these factors into account we ended the second quarter of 2013 with very strong liquidity of more than $900 million.
With this solid level of liquidity we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations as well as execute our strategic initiatives.
Let me take a moment to comment on our pension plan.
Our 2013 pension funding requirements remained at about $180 million.
In the second quarter we completed a $41 million pension contribution.
In addition earlier this month we contributed $69 million to the pension fund and we will be making the final pension contribution for 2013 in the fourth quarter of this year of roughly $41 million.
Now turning to our outlook.
As is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the third quarter of 2013 in September.
In advance of that guidance we do expect our second half financial results to be impacted by the recent unplanned Middletown blast furnace outage.
While we continue to refine our estimate for the total impact of this loss we currently expect that the uninsured portion of the losses in the second half of 2013 will be between $12 million and $17 million.
We are already working with our property and business insurance underwriters on the claim.
The timing of their recognition of our insurance recovery will depend on the timing of reaching agreement with our insurance underwriters.
Let me conclude by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time Jim Al and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Luke Folta of Jefferies please go ahead with your question.
Research Division</strong> I guess the biggest question out there I have is if you look at free cash flow generation over the last few years say I don't know 2011 and forward it's been kind of oscillating around let's say a negative $240-ish million sort of number.
And looking forward if I look at what you think you can earn out of your raw material investments just based on the estimates that you provided for contribution at various price level if I run $120 iron ore through there and $130 met coal I get sort of a positive $130 million number which would only be sort of a partial offset to the free cash flow at its current run rate.
So I guess what I'm trying to understand is if the market remains as competitive as it has been going forward is there any -- what are the other levers that you have that you could pull basically to kind of make up for the gap between kind of current run rate free cash flow and what sort of benefits you expect from the raw material investments? Luke you hit on a very critical item for us.
It's something that we talk about a lot as a management team.
Our board obviously is focused on it as well.
I think Roger I would just start with the comment that we believe our liquidity currently is in excellent shape.
And don't take our opinion only I would also look to our S&amp;P rating here.
Recently S&amp;P reaffirmed our credit rating and also ranked our liquidity as strong.
So -- but to your question we have been consumers and we'll likely be consumers again this year of cash for all the reasons that Roger mentioned: pension funding interest strategic investments capital investments and so on.
And again I think we continue to ramp up and crank up.
The biggest lever probably in our items that we have would be the strategic investments.
And one can put one's own view on that.
Obviously we went either way in our perspective because it's a bit of a hedge bet so if raw material prices go up or go down we're going to win.
If you want to put some kind of number like you talked about that's certainly a significant move forward.
There are a whole host of other things initiatives that we have going on within the company some of which I'm free to chat about and others which I'm really not but all of which really derive benefit from lowering our costs.
Clearly in the long run we believe that the markets that we serve will get better.
But we can't continue to wait on that.
It's been 5 long tough years of slogging it out.
We are growing profitable sales.
I mentioned automotive a host of other areas.
Sort of a long answer to your question but there's no one silver bullet.
We know we've got to get back to cash generation EBITDA generation north of $500 million and probably get usage in the $400 million-plus range.
And I think we're probably 1 year or 2 out from doing that.
That's sort of our forward look at things with all of the initiatives that we have underway.
Jim I would just add of course that of course our pension contributions will peak in 2014 again subject to mortality interest rates investment performance as well as the fact that our strategic investment commitment will finalize in 2014 2015.
So we think there's certainly better days ahead Luke.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on that.
I mean in your -- in the last investor presentation that you have out there you had forecasted that -- I mean obviously it's tough to make the call today what it's going to be in 2015 but in your numbers it looks like you expect cash out the door for pension in total to be [indiscernible] benefits to be about $100 million less in '15 than it is today.
Is that a function of an expectation of higher improved interest rates or is that just the plan fundamentals themselves? It's a combination of 2 items.
One of them is as we put the assets in you'll get the return on those assets.
And as Al mentioned our peak of our funding and our pension plan is next year.
And then also as we continue to settle on our VEBAs we settle with our as you're aware Butler and our Middletown and our Zanesville we have another $30 million we'll put in this year to the Butler VEBA but then we'll be getting out from under those payments and paying any retired health care benefits for that group in the future too.
So it's meaningful Luke.
I think your $100 million is a pretty good benchmark to see coming our way.
The other thing is again we'll be complete with our funding of our strategic investments.
As we get into next year all of our VEBA deals will be done and so on.
So there's a whole host of things that are moving in our direction if you will on the cash flow front.
Our next question comes from Michelle Applebaum of Michelle Applebaum Research.
I particularly want to actually highlight Jim and the board of AK Steel you're to be congratulated for having had someone of Al's training experience caliber integrity in a communications position for as long as you've had he has made a huge difference and the company having a senior person in this clearly has been invested in communications.
And I want to say that a lot of people would look at the market that we're in right now and say "Well there's no good news there's no great story here." And they would not have somebody like that in the job and you guys realize in a tougher market the way it's been the last few years where things have been so complicated and so many moving parts having somebody like that in the job has been so important.
So I want to congratulate you all and say job well done to you and the board Jim as well.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Michelle.
And big shoes to fill here.
My next question is so you had an outage that looks like it cost about 150 000 tons.
Is that a fair number? I think it's in the zip code.
We -- there's probably 25 000 tons Michelle of shipment opportunities that we lost in the second quarter.
There's some number 100 000 plus maybe a little more than that 150 000 that is probably not available to us in the third quarter.
But what we have done if I can just -- and then I'll let you ask your question.
What we've certainly tried to do is to increase our production capabilities at Ashland.
As you recall the new EAF that we put in really hadn't been challenged but with Butler we're challenging it now.
And for some selective grade applications we've gone ahead and purchased a few merchant slabs.
So we'll be doing everything we can to make up for that loss production but some of it has probably gotten away from us.
Okay.
So -- and you've seen that the market has kind of taken off on your outage and I'm just wondering now that you're back is it fair to say that perhaps your outage was just sort of a catalyst as opposed to a cause here? I think it may have been one of the things.
It's never -- as you know as well or better than anybody one item that typically causes these things to move.
I think the other thing we pay close attention to is what's been going on with service center inventories which again moves prices a fair amount as well as the input costs.
On the service center side of things flat-rolled inventories down for the fifth consecutive month at their lowest level in the past 2 years since June of '11 adjusted month supply on hand down to 2.1 months.
Things are pretty tight those are really positive trends for spot market pricing.
And we saw scrap head up by almost $40 a ton here recently.
So I think it's a combination maybe of our event and those items that have bolstered pricing.
And as I said we're quoting 650 and evaluating if another increase is warranted.
And you're -- so can you tell me how much wiggle room do you think we have before we make an invitation to more import? I'll leave that to those that look at the bigger picture a bit more than we do.
But maybe there's another $20 to $30 or something like that per ton if I was to be a prognosticator.
Our next question comes from Dave Katz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious for a while now you guys have stated that the benefit from the coal and iron ore holdings will provide the company with 50% vertical integration to each material.
Looking at iron ores the company owns 50% of Magnetation which is going to produce 50% of the company's iron ore.
To me that would imply about 25% iron ore integration.
I was curious what I'm missing there? Well if you look at it we consume approximately 6 million tons of iron ore.
They'll provide us roughly 3 million tons out of their pellet plant.
So we'll be buying from them half of our iron ore.
And then also we do get the benefit of the iron ore that we're buying the financial benefit that Magnetation gets we do get half the benefit from Magnetation.
But we will be getting our iron ore at a reduced price at a very – it'll be a very cost-competitive pellet once it starts up.
Research Division</strong> So the 50% that you're buying that you're not directly exposed to through your ownership is the right way to think about that is that you're purchasing it at below-market prices and that's the benefit that's provided? Yes.
Because we are taking all the offtake of that pellet plant.
So the 3 million tons is coming to us and then if you look at it by getting the financial benefit back you're getting that -- you're getting the benefit of it as a lower-cost pellet.
The other thing I would just add David is it's important to realize and I know you know this but what goes around comes around with respect to raw materials.
And again we saw raw materials escalate fourfold over the period of the last 5 years or so.
But I think that we're seeing a little change in conditions there.
We recently held a forum for a number of producers of raw materials and energy and transportation and really had some pretty positive results.
We don't have any announcements to make today but I would say that we would expect that both from the Magnetation benefit as well as our purchases in the open market should be beneficial to us as well going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the pension and OPEB expense and other post-retirement benefit and payment line items which both show up in the cash flow statement they've been running between $30 million to $35 million per quarter.
Is that a fair assumption of how they're going to move in the future at least through let's say 2014? In terms of pension and OPEB the pension credit? Research Division</strong> Well it shows up as -- if you add the Q up they shows up as about $30 million use of cash on the cash flow statement.
Yes if you aggregate the 2 of those.
In other words a component of that is our pension and OPEB credit which is running around $16 million per quarter.
And then the noncash pension and OPEB essentially are payments to retirees have actually been running a little less but probably they'll probably be in the $65 million to $70 million range for the year which translates into about a $16 million or $17 million payment.
So aggregating those 2 that would be essentially a deduct from EBITDA so your calculation is correct.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jim I had a question about ultra-high-strength steel and what your potential capacity is there right now and how that business has evolved over the last couple years? I guess I'd start with sort of the broader picture of things.
Again materials continue to evolve.
We continue to believe at AK Steel that steel is indeed the material of choice particularly for automobiles and we're part of the solution rather than part of the problem when it comes to lightweighting of vehicles.
As we all know trying to get the 54.5 mpg is a long way from where we're currently at.
But if you care about things like safety and cost and repairability and sustainability then steel is for you.
And that's certainly the message that we continue to carry forward to our OEMs in the automotive business.
Aluminum certainly made in-roads will continue to make in-roads mostly they've made it though as you know in engine blocks and occasional parts for lightweighting.
But they have made some progress we wouldn't dismiss that.
I think to your point we already have certain products including ultra-loom [ph] product and we are spending a fair amount of time in our research organization in our sales and customer service group to really listen to customers to assess the market.
This is the kind of thing where again you don't want to get too far ahead but you don't want to be behind.
In our case we're producing advanced high-strength steels today.
And we're focused mostly on the next-generation what we call the third generation of advanced high-strength steels.
Really want to have a very good handle from our customers on what their needs are try and secure the business before we sort of go forward from here.
But in all likelihood for us to participate in a significantly bigger way it will require some sort of a capital investment location to be determined and exact form to be determined in order to meet our customers' future needs in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- I appreciate that.
And on your contract business you mentioned it was 70% of where you are today.
How much of that is reset quarterly? How much of that outside of the grain-oriented business is reset annually? Can you give us a feel for how some of that business goes to the market? Virtually all of the automotive business is reset annually.
From time to time we'll have discussion about longer term.
We're currently engaged in some of those negotiations as we speak.
Unlike in the past however where most of those deals came up for renewal on or about January 1 now they're really spread throughout the year on the various quarters.
And oftentimes it depends on when the participants or the customers have their year ends and so forth.
And really to their credit they're trying to stagger the expiration of their deals so as not to have everything kind of come due at a given point.
So yes we have negotiations that were done and take effect July 1 others are still in progress and others will follow from there.
And the same is true when you get outside of automotive into appliance and into a number of our other markets including electrical steel.
It's really all over the board.
Research Division</strong> Is there like an annual base price with a surcharge or is that just largely a fixed price that you'd be going out with? It's a really good question.
Over the years what we've tried to do is introduce the concept of a variable price to take into account the things that cause us problems on the cost front namely things like natural gas and raw materials iron ore and scrap and so forth.
With some of the specialty steel business for years we've had a nickel component and on some of the coated products we'll have a zinc component.
But it really does depend.
It's a matter of sharing of the risk and if certain customers want a fixed price because that's the way they want to build their business plan and report to their management we can do that.
But in most cases it's usually a base price with those variable components on top of it.
Our next question comes from Sam Dubinsky of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few quick ones.
Other than hot-rolled what are the product segments should we expect to be most impacted by the Middletown outage? I think it's primarily the spot market which would include hot-rolled some cold-rolled to a lesser extent coated products.
That's sort of the variety.
And really in that order those are the less profitable from a margin standpoint products for us.
Having said that we like more volume in a high-fixed cost business that's a good thing for us.
But we like profitable volume.
So there'll be an impact.
We should recover nicely from that as we look out into the fourth quarter although we're not giving forward guidance.
We'll kind of work our way through Q3 with the challenges that we've got and look to do better and to do more in Q4.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
I'm sorry if I missed this but what percent of your business in Q3 is based purely on spot market post outage? And also what is the link to the spot market? Roger you want to give that a shot? Well in 2Q it was a little bit higher with the -- less of hot-rolled and cold-rolled as you saw on our shipments that we gave.
So we were a little bit more higher value-added.
Our automotive had grown.
So we were a little bit north of the 70% range for the second quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And for the third quarter with the product mix? I'm just try to figure out given that the spot market has increased how much of that actually trickles to your pricing? There's a lot of moving pieces and parts.
I would just offer Sam including the automotive shutdowns even though they're less than they typically are this year.
You've got that moving pieces and part in the equation.
So if we were at 70-something we might be high 60s.
It's sort of shades of gray here moving a little bit towards a bit more in the spot market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My last question is just how should we think about minority interest for Q3 with your relationship with SunCoke? Because you may be producing [indiscernible]? If you look at the bottom line for our net income it's a 0 impact to our net income.
So the minority interest while it's affecting operating income and then you have the minority interest down below the bottom line is it's a 0 impact basically to our earnings.
Our next question comes from Chris Brown of Merrill Lynch.
Could you maybe provide us a little bit more color on the electrical steel market? Why were shipments down year-over-year when the housing market is better you guys are gaining market share? Sort of what's going on there? Is it mostly just international weakness or maybe something else? Yes I think the aftermarket I would characterize as okay if not pretty good relatively speaking versus international which is really not good at all.
And so it's the combination of those 2 things: growth then opportunity of growth in market share in the NAFTA region.
But really internationally things are much tougher.
Really too much steel internationally chasing too few orders which has driven pricing down.
Asian producers in particular seem to have contributed to the over capacity problem and so pricing environment there has been really really poor.
That's caused us in turn to reduce exports so you're seeing that in our shipments.
And I might add that it's also caused the foreigners to look to America the land of the free and the home of the brave and we're seeing absolutely seeing an influx of imports into our country.
And then as a follow-up should we still be sort of thinking about lower shipments year-over-year for electrical steels? Or given second quarter was up 10% sequentially could that maybe be flat on a year-over-year basis for 2013? It's probably a bit of wishful thinking on our part at this point as we look out that it would be flattish and maybe down somewhat from year-over-year.
Our next question comes from Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Roger this unplanned outage cost $12 million to $15 million will this be more on the third-- in the third quarter or is it going to be evenly distributed between third and fourth? What I'd tell you there Sal is that we plan to have additional costs -- most of the costs will be incurred in the third quarter as that's when most of the outage occurred.
The question will be what the timing is of getting the insurance proceeds and getting agreement with the insurance company and at this point I can't really give guidance of whether that would be in third quarter or fourth quarter.
But it will be -- our intent is that -- and plan ] is that would be in the second half.
Research Division</strong> And of the $6.5 million in the first quarter – in the second quarter will a part of it be recoverable from insurance or was it your part uninsured part you took? Well as we said we incurred $6 million so that was -- we took that as an expense.
And then we said we incurred another $12 million to $17 million of additional cost in the second half of the year.
So that's the total that we would -- we expect to incur which is roughly in the $18 million to $22 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have any planned shutdown in the -- or idling in third quarter at all? Maintenance I mean to say.
Our outages in the third quarter are very minimal.
It's only $1 million or $2 million Sal in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jim on your overall contract to spot 70-30 you mentioned this year how would you break it down in stainless steel? Is stainless steel more contract or less contract than that ratio? It's a very similar sort of ratio when you look at the big picture.
And again Sal while you know maybe others don't have a full appreciation you really have to understand that we've got sort of 3 or maybe 4 components within stainless.
You've got that commodity 300 series which largely is a spot sort of feel.
You've got the 400 series the autochrome business which is largely contract if not entirely.
And then you've got some sort of specialty products the kinds of things that we make out of Coshocton which are mostly contract.
And then you've got of course electrical steel which domestically is largely contract and internationally or non-NAFTA is a spot business.
So I think sort of putting all those pieces together and that's sort of dissecting and then bring it back together we're somewhere in that same sort of range maybe 70% 75% would be my best estimate.
Our final question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit about sort of how you see this whole ThyssenKrupp Alabama transaction impacting the competitive environment? I mean ThyssenKrupp was fairly disruptive it looks like they're winning bidders at least in the press and may not believe what you can.
Or CSA and with Vale they're also interlopers into sort of the United States at least for the moment.
Do you see them as being more disruptive have you bumped into them thus far in any of your contract business spot business et cetera? And then I mean do you have a sense as to sort of how full they are now and if they were to ramp up additionally either in stainless or carbon would that pose a threat to you that you could perceive? Okay.
For the next hour we'll be covering the ThyssenKrupp.
Right those are fantastic questions.
Let me sort of first thank you for your comments about Al all of you -- for those and also for your question.
Let me first start off by saying we've learned over the years not to believe everything we read in the press and we've been hearing for months and quarters I guess 1.5 years various scenarios about TK.
We like everybody else kicked at tires.
We like everybody else has looked very carefully at the competitive landscape there.
And for us it's sort of doubly important because it's not only producing carbon it's also producing stainless down there.
So we're pretty well aware of what they're doing.
I would say that there's an awful lot of steel that they brought to market.
And there's perhaps additional capacity that could come.
One of the things that is not well understood is that about half of the carbon steel production that could come out of that plant and really most all of what's been coming out of there so far has been affecting the spot marketplace which has been a very crowded marketplace as we know.
I guess from our standpoint at AK Steel we could offer a scenario and would be happy to do so whereby we come out in good shape no matter who owns it.
And part of that goes to who we are how we run the company what we stand for.
And if you're the industry leader as we are in product quality and delivering customer service we look forward to competing successfully with whoever winds up putting a new name on the door whether that's a foreigner or whether that's a domestic player.
So I think all of them know our reputation.
We remind our customers and they remind us frankly with their votes every quarter about the job that we're doing for them.
So candidly a lot of steel has come to market whether it's carbon steel or stainless steel already and we'll wait perhaps not with bated breath but we'll wait to see if in the next few weeks or months here a solution is found.
But we look forward to the challenge of competing with whoever it is that owns it.
Fixed Income Research</strong> And then the last one is just sort of a double check.
My sense is that with respect to the revolver it's fully available there's not any sort of maintenance issues.
If you wanted to draw it down tomorrow and run negative spreads that you could.
Just double check that I'm correct in assuming this.
Yes you are correct in that.
Fixed Income Research</strong> No maintenance covenants no nothing? Not unless [indiscernible]...
[indiscernible] $137 million which frankly isn't going to happen.
It's found in our sites.
And that comment that if you look at it from the first quarter the second quarter there was a decline in liquidity but $53 million of that was related to working capital.
And as we indicated earlier this year we expect working capital to be a source of cash for us for the year.
So we'll get that back.
It's a normal seasonality that occurred in the second quarter.
And also in the second quarter we put $50 million in the Magnetation.
So of the decline $103 million of it was just related to those 2 items alone.
Brett thanks to you.
Thanks to everyone who joined us on today's call.
We hope you'll have a good balance of the summer.
We appreciate your ongoing interest in AK Steel.
Have a great day and a better tomorrow.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our third quarter 2013 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that I will turn it over to Jim for his comments.
Jim? Think you Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2013 conference call.
Despite continuing to operate in challenging times AK Steel continues to make progress and service to our customers and on behalf of our shareholders and other constituents.
In facing and overcoming adversity our values and our approach have not changed.
Our focus has been and will continue to be on taking good care of our people and our customers on lowering costs and creating value for our shareholders.
Speaking of overcoming adversity let me comment on the status of our Middletown Works blast furnace.
Following an unplanned outage that began back on June 22 we performed the necessary repairs and got the blast furnace back online approximately 3 weeks later.
The furnace has run reasonably well since then but not as well as we initially thought and it did not return to its full capacity during the third quarter.
Accordingly in early October we took a 3-day outage to address the productivity shortfall.
As we've stated in our third quarter earnings guidance and in our third quarter earnings release that was sent out earlier today the lower level of slab production during the third quarter had 3 consequences: first it increased our cost per ton; second it lowered our shipments; and third we were unable to enjoy a portion of our recently announced spot market price increases for carbon steel.
Based on our recent performance however we believe that we are now back to full production capacity at the Middletown furnace.
And accordingly we expect to enjoy the associated higher production higher shipments lower unit costs and higher selling prices going forward.
I might add that major maintenance outages in the fourth quarter of 2013 will be much less in scope and in cost than those that took place in the third quarter.
At AK Steel our people and our customers are invaluable to our company.
With both of these groups in mind let me provide a brief update on how we're performing when it comes to keeping our people safe and providing great products for our customers.
The safety of our employees remains our company's highest priority.
With only 3 OSHA recordable injuries throughout the company for the third quarter of 2013 we tied our best ever performance for a third quarter.
Shifting gears from employees to customers at AK Steel we strive to serve our customers better than any other steelmaker with a combination of superior product quality on-time delivery and outstanding customer service.
Based on these metrics we continue to shine in the eyes of our customers.
Compared to our carbon steel integrated competitors AK Steel was ranked #1 in quality customer service and on-time delivery for the third quarter.
Collectively these performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our carbon steel market.
Our third quarter performance with our specialty steel customers also earned us the #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our specialty steel markets.
Great performances and great ratings don't simply happen.
Our employees make them happen.
I'm proud of their efforts and I congratulate our employees on a job very well done for our customers.
Speaking of our customers I'll only take a couple of moments to comment on what we're seeing in our served markets.
Overall it's a bit of a mixed bag in a rather mixed economic environment.
On the positive front the automotive market continues to be very strong.
In fact our third quarter automotive shipments were the second highest quarterly total since the first quarter of 2008.
Only the second quarter of this year 2013 the automotive shipments were higher than the just completed quarter.
Except for seasonal maintenance shutdowns and model year changeovers our third quarter 2013 automotive shipments frankly would have been our strongest in 5.5 years.
We've been very fortunate to grow our automotive shipments faster than the overall market's growth and we're also fortunate to be serving automotive customers whose market share is growing.
I really don't think that's a coincidence.
In fact I think that we're helping ourselves with the superior quality on-time delivery and best-in-class customer service that I referenced earlier.
Indeed the trends for automotive production and consumption have been very good ones for AK Steel.
NAFTA light vehicle production forecasted at 16.2 million units for this year is on pace for its highest level in a decade and domestic light vehicle sales are on pace for 15.5 million units.
That would be the highest on record since the year 2007.
The outlook for 2014 is also quite good and even beyond that as automakers begin to look at making more automobiles in America for consumption here and for export around the world.
Making things in America has an awfully nice ring to it doesn't it? Breaking steel the strength in the automotive sector has been beneficial across nearly all of our product lines.
We've certainly seen the benefits in carbon steel for exposed and unexposed body parts as well as in specialty stainless for example at our Coshocton Works where we make bright trim and in the automotive chrome business and for automotive exhaust applications.
Nearly all of our automotive sales represent contract sales.
As a company we want to continue to grow our contract business especially automotive and selectively reduce our participation in the typically volatile spot market.
Give you a sense of perspective a couple of years ago our mix of contract to spot sales was roughly 50-50.
For the third quarter of this year that ratio was closer to 75-25.
And going forward that's really where we want to be or perhaps even 80-20.
In addition to the strength in automotive the service center business has also gotten a bit better.
Our spot market order intake rates have improved.
And in order to match customer needs with our production capabilities and to cover our costs we raised our spot market hot-rolled selling prices to $680 per ton on October 1.
This pricing level is about $100 per ton higher than the low point in 2013.
Service center inventories for carbon steel products are down 25% from the peak of the cycle in August of 2008.
And at the end of September they stood at just over 2.4 months of supply on hand which is below the historical average for September of about 2.7 months.
Stainless steel inventory levels of service centers are also fairly tight with only 2.9 months of supply on hand well below the historical average of 3.8 months.
The construction market also appears to be gaining some ground.
In fact total construction spending in 2013 is on pace to exceed $900 billion for the first time since the onset of the Great Recession.
Leading the way has been private construction which has rebounded by more than 40% since its low point in early 2009.
In addition to the well-publicized housing market recovery the non-residential side is once again seeing signs of strength.
Non-res construction which is much more steel intensive I might add rose by more than 7%.
And each of 2011 and '12 and for 2013 the full year growth rate is projected at about 3% with the fourth quarter of 2013 expected to rise by more than 5%.
So in summary automotive is up.
So is housing and industrial production.
Construction is trending positively.
And -- but for a down month in September consumer confidence has also been rising as has the Purchasing Managers Index.
And while all of that is good news and should bode well for the future let me take a moment to provide an update on the ongoing challenges we're facing in the electrical steel market and what we're doing about them.
As I mentioned the housing market a major driver of demand for electrical steel for use in transformers has been improving in 2013.
Housing starts are up nearly 20% from this time 1 year ago.
However much of the housing growth has been in multi-family units that use less steel per household and do not utilize the highest-efficiency electrical steel products typically used in single-family homes.
In addition we've seen America become the world's dumping ground for electrical steel.
At AK Steel we can compete with any steelmaker anywhere anytime.
However we cannot and we should not have to compete with unfairly traded imports which are dumped here at below-cost prices and are subsidized by foreign governments which is exactly what we are competing against today.
In order to maintain our competitiveness trade cases are important tools that are available to assist in remedying this type of situation.
Accordingly with clear unfair trade practices occurring we recently brought 2 trade cases in order to defend ourselves.
One of the cases involves grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES products and the other case involves non-oriented electrical steel products sometimes referred to as NOES products N-O-E-S that is.
We are most interested in competing on a level playing field with our international electrical steel competitors.
We strongly urge the U.S.
Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission to bring a halt to these unfair trade practices that have caused material injury to the company.
With that update on NAFTA electrical steels let me provide some commentary on the international electrical steel market environment.
With growth rates having slowed in Asia coupled with the ongoing uncertainty associated with the Eurozone financial crisis and with a significant increase in global production of GOES products the international market for GOES has significantly deteriorated.
As one might imagine this has resulted in excess capacity and downward pricing pressure.
And as a consequence our international shipments of GOES products have declined and are expected to remain at historically low levels in the near to intermediate term.
At AK Steel we continue to see solid longer-term potential for global high-efficiency electrical steels as the demand for energy in the world continues to grow.
As developing countries evolve energy is really at the core of that growth and for developed countries the implementation of new efficiency standards is a key.
AK Steel will continue to serve our international customers through global sales offices technical support and product innovation all of which have established our company as a premier global supplier of electrical steels.
As we await the continued recovery of the U.S.
and global economies I suppose you could say that we're in the self-help business.
That's because we're not waiting for others to help us.
We're helping ourselves by controlling those items that we can control lowering our costs wherever possible and bringing our strategic raw material investments to fruition.
Speaking of our raw material investments I'm excited to provide an update on the progress that we're making on vertically integrating to the 50% level in terms of both the iron ore and coal.
Magnetation a JV in which AK Steel owns 49.9% continues to accelerate its construction activities.
On budget and somewhat ahead of schedule the new pellet plant in Indiana is well on its way to producing its first-- excuse me high-quality low-cost pellets to feed AK's blast furnaces within the next year.
Barring any unexpected construction delays we expect the start-up of the pellet plant's operations in the fourth quarter of 2014 or perhaps even sooner.
The ramp-up to full production is expected in 2015.
Suffice it to say that the Magnetation project is all that we thought it would be and then some.
We're also making excellent progress with AK Coal's first mine the North Fork mine which is located in Somerset County PA.
We're increasing the volume of low-vol coal that's being mined at AK Coal and I'm pleased to report that the quality of the product is as expected very good.
However in light of current and anticipated near-term coal pricing we've elected to defer the opening of the second and third mines.
We'll continue with the permitting activities associated with those mines but the timing of the opening of mines 2 and 3 will depend on future coal market conditions.
The fact is that the low-vol coal reserves aren't going to go anywhere.
And when it makes good economic since in the future to mine more of our own coal we'll do that.
Each of these investments Magnetation and AK Coal are very important to our future as we enhance our long-term supply on a very cost-competitive basis.
Upon completion and full ramp-up these facilities will be among the lowest-cost producers of low-vol met coal and iron ore pellets in North America.
And when the ramp-ups are complete we will have achieved our goal of being approximately 50% self-sufficient in our key steelmaking inputs of coal and iron ore.
In closing my prepared remarks let me say that while we're not providing specific guidance at this time for the fourth quarter of 2013 we've clearly set the stage for our fourth quarter financial results to exceed those of the third quarter.
Among other reasons we expect improved sequential quarterly performance due to lower maintenance outage costs higher production volumes and lower unit costs as a result and increased shipments.
Let me add that we also expect working capital to be a significant source of cash in the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2013.
We'll have more to say about our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2013 in December.
But rest assured our focus will continue to be on taking good care of our people serving customers better than others lowering costs and widening margins in order to enhance our earnings and cash flow.
And although it's been another challenging year in 2013 we intend to finish on a high note with our best quarter of the year and to leverage off of that success as we turn the calendar to 2014.
At AK Steel we continue to make progress in service to our customers.
And on behalf of our shareholders and other constituents I remain highly confident that our best days are indeed ahead of us.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
And now to review our financial performance in more detail here's our CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $31.7 million or $0.23 per share for the third quarter of 2013 which was in line with our guidance.
Our results reflect an improvement of roughly $9 million or $0.07 per share compared to the second quarter.
Our third quarter results were impacted by the unplanned outage at our Middletown Works blast furnace.
As we have previously indicated during the third quarter we incurred costs of approximately $12 million or $0.09 per share pretax related to the unplanned outage.
This was the net impact after taking into an account a partial recovery from our insurers during the third quarter.
Our results for the quarter also included $4 million in planned major maintenance outage costs which was about $18 million lower than the $22 million we incurred in the second quarter.
Thus while these outages dampened our performance for the quarter we still improved our financial results.
Our shipments for the third quarter of 2013 decreased by 81 000 tons or approximately 6% to 1 242 400 tons compared to the second quarter of 2013 but were consistent with our guidance.
The unplanned Middletown blast furnace outage which reduced our melt production as well as the seasonal reduction in shipments to the auto market resulted in the overall reduction in shipments during the third quarter.
Further while we continue to honor our commitments to customers for lower-priced orders placed prior to the unplanned outage at Middletown we were not able to take full advantage of the price increases in the carbon spot market which occurred during the quarter.
This resulted in an average selling price for the third quarter of $1 071 per ton an increase of $10 per ton or roughly 1% compared to the second quarter and slightly better than our guidance.
The average selling price in the third quarter reflects a more favorable mix of value-added shipments which was largely offset by lower raw material surcharges as well as the impact of delayed shipments caused by the blast furnace outage.
Revenues for the third quarter totaled $1 331 000 000 roughly 5% lower than the prior quarter.
In the third quarter we benefited from a LIFO credit of $15.8 million.
This compares to a LIFO credit of $12.4 million in the second quarter.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the noncontrolling interests which are included in our operating results.
Our noncontrolling interests consist primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the noncontrolling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2013 was $53.5 million or $43 per ton.
This is an improvement of $6 million or $7 per ton compared to the second quarter.
Our third quarter performance reflects a nearly 13% improvement over the second quarter.
Moving to our results for the 9 months of 2013.
Shipments for the first 9 months of 2013 were 3 855 900 tons a 4% decrease compared to the first 9 months of 2012.
We are pleased to have achieved higher automotive market shipments during this time frame as compared to the same time period in 2012.
However the higher automotive shipments were more than offset by lower spot market carbon and electrical steel shipments.
Our average selling price for the first 9 months of 2013 was $1 065 per ton a decrease of $55 per ton or 5% compared to the first 9 months of last year.
Revenues for the first 3 quarters were $4.1 billion compared to approximately $4.5 billion in the first 3 quarters of 2012.
In regards to our operations we incurred $27 million in planned major maintenance outage costs during the first 9 months of 2013 compared to roughly $30 million during the first 9 months of 2012.
However as previously mentioned we also incurred $18 million of unplanned outage costs during the first 3 quarters of 2013.
At the bottom line for the first 9 months of 2013 we reported a net loss of $82 million compared to a net loss of $797 million for the first 9 months of 2012.
Our results for the first 9 months of 2012 included a noncash income tax charge of approximately $769 million as a result of a change in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance recorded in the second quarter of 2012.
Turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement for the third quarter of 2013 our capital investments totaled $14 million slightly less than in the second quarter.
As expected working capital consumed approximately $29 million of cash during the third quarter partly reflecting a normal seasonal fluctuation in inventories as well as the impact from the unplanned blast furnace outage that occurred at the end of the second quarter.
It is important to note that despite the impact of the unplanned blast furnace outage our continued focus on working capital management resulted in a significant improvement compared to what we have typically experienced in the first 9 months of the year.
In the first 9 months of 2013 working capital consumed $92 million.
In comparison in the first 9 months of both 2011 and 2012 working capital consumed more than $200 million in each of those periods.
The primary drivers of this improved performance over prior years is related to our continued efforts to lower our raw material inventories.
Importantly we still expect working capital to be a source of cash in the fourth quarter as well as a source of cash for the full year of 2013.
Taking all of these factors into account we ended the third quarter of 2013 with solid liquidity of more than $800 million.
With this solid liquidity level we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and their operations as well as execute our strategic initiatives.
Let me take a moment to comment on our pension and VEBA funding.
In the third quarter we completed a $69 million pension contribution.
Earlier this month we also completed a $41 million pension contribution which has now fulfilled our pension funding requirement of $181 million for the year 2013.
Also during the third quarter we completed the final contribution of $28 million to the Butler VEBA as well as the first of 3 annual installment payments of $3 million each to the -- to fund the Zanesville VEBA.
Effective January 1 2015 all future OPEB obligations related to the Butler retirees will become the responsibility of the Butler VEBA trust.
Now turning to our outlook.
As is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the fourth quarter of 2013 in December.
In advance of that guidance I would note that we do expect our fourth quarter financial results to be impacted by the unplanned Middletown blast furnace outage but to a much lesser extent than the third quarter.
While we continue to refine our estimate for the total impact of the loss we currently expect that the total uninsured portion of the blast furnace unplanned outage will be between $20 million and $23 million $18 million of which we have already incurred in the second and third quarter of 2013.
This leaves an impact of approximately $2 million to $5 million that we would expect in the fourth quarter.
We continue to work with our property and business interruption underwriters on the claim and we anticipate filing most if not all of our insurance claim in the fourth quarter.
However this timing is subject to us reaching a final agreement with our insurers on the insured portion of the loss.
Despite the remaining impact from the unplanned outage we expect improved fourth quarter results compared to the third quarter.
Let me conclude by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley please go ahead with your question.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to think about how to model pricing and calendar year contract resets for 2014.
And just given where spot prices have gone it feels like the carbon contracts could be up the electrical steel contracts probably down a little bit.
Should we be thinking of that as somewhat of a wash? Or how do you see that playing out as we go into next year? I guess I'd start here with respect to contract business.
Again a lot of our business these days as I mentioned last quarter probably in that 75% range is of a contract nature.
Just perhaps for the benefit of a number of people on the call we have contracts with automotive and other customers that first off they're all unique.
They expire at varying times throughout the year.
Said another way we're currently in contract discussions with several auto customers and others will come up throughout 2014.
We are indeed seeking and will continue to seek higher prices and we'll also seek continued participation as we want to grow the contract part of our business.
In addition to automotive contracts of course we have other contracts in some cases with appliance manufacturers or HVAC manufacturers and certainly with electrical steel producers transformers and so forth.
So again those all vary.
What we did not really come prepared to do today and I think it's a bit premature is to sort of give guidance with respect to the various components of our contract sales and overall.
We'll have more to say about that in January.
But again I just emphasize that those are not all reset in January.
Fact of the matter is a lot have been -- a lot of things have been written recently about pricing.
We're going to price our products at a level that allows us to meet our needs right and to generate the kind of cash flow and profitable business that we need.
The one thing I always tell our sales force here is to never apologize for price increases to the extent that they cover our costs which we have done sufficiently here for a while.
I think we've taken reasonably good care of our people and our customers.
We have to do a better job frankly as a company taking care of the other very important constituent namely our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> And at the risk of asking one more premature question how about 2014 coal contracts? I know those negotiations are under way right now.
It seems like they could slip a little bit.
Any color there? I'll start and Roger can kind of fill in the blanks.
Our view generally with respect to commodities is that they should go our way a bit.
We expect prices for both iron ore and coal to fall in 2014.
We're negotiating certain items.
I think our friends at Cliffs came out with an announcement earlier in the third quarter about a deal that we've done together and we're very placed with that deal as it relates to iron ore.
I don't know that we are the best prognosticators Evan with respect to those prices and where things are heading.
My sense is that it might be a single-digit percentage decline year-over-year when you bake everything together.
But clearly we're seeing lower prices.
On the other hand there are those who pontificate that we're simply taking a pause a dip if you will in the longer term super cycle for commodities.
And I think the short answer is nobody knows with a high degree of certainty which direction the long term will be for raw materials.
What I do know is this and I feel very good about it that we're not betting that prices will go up or go down.
In fact what we bet is that we'll hedge our bet that we very much like our position going forward with Magnetation AK Coal which says that we'll buy half of our needs in the open market and we'll provide half of our needs with those investments.
So if raw material prices fall we'll get a -- hits [ph] in the open market.
And if they rise we'll get a benefit from our strategic investments.
That's the best I can do for you.
Our next question comes from David Katz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the stepping back on the development of mines 2 and 3 at AK Coal it was my memory that at current sort of spot/contract prices that you'd be substituting the AK Coal for the AK Coal tonnage where those still have been profitable.
Why are you moving back a little bit on that? Well Dave when you look at the AK Coal as you're aware we did start up the first mine.
We started mining back in June and that has been going as expected.
We're working on getting the permits for the other mines.
And as we move forward AK Coal will be providing as part of our coal needs next year.
We also have taken advantage of purchasing some coal and running it through our Coal Innovations facility our coal washing plant at AK Coal.
So we are utilizing the assets there to supply our coal -- part of our coal needs.
As Jim correctly noted we -- ultimately our goal is to get 1 million tons of our self-sufficiency and our target was to do that in 2015.
So we're still in a transition period.
But given what's going on in the coal industry and what we're seeing in the marketplace we're moving forward at a cautious pace.
We have -- as Jim mentioned we have the coal reserves there.
They're not going anywhere.
And so the market price moves on coal that will help drive what we decide to do in our ramp-up for the other mines.
David I'd just say sometimes when you can't change the direction of the wind you have to adjust your sails.
We're adjusting our sails.
Given those fundamentals that Roger referred to in today's coal market we'll decelerate a bit and ramp-up AK Coal when it makes good sense.
So and that's the situation at present.
But to be clear we very much like our strategy long term.
We still like mining 50% of our coal down the road.
We'll continue to push forward with all permitting activities there's been no halt or delay with respect to those items.
And frankly if coal prices move higher faster we'll accelerate our coal mining activities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the past I believe you guys have indicated that you expected to invest $60 million in AK Coal from between 2013 and 2015.
If the adjustment of the sales to which you alluded extends throughout the entirety of 2014 how would that lower the CapEx from that year? I would say it would not be a huge item.
If you looked at for AK Coal in total we said that the total investment was $96 million.
To date we have invested $57 million.
So we still have a little more we're investing there.
We've been selectively making capital investments to make sure we can meet the needs that we need for our coal and how we're mining and the equipments to support the mine that we're currently operating.
And so the timing of the remaining of that will move along as one we got to get the permits that's #1 which we're still moving forward to get the permits.
And then once we get that the timing of the rest of the remaining roughly $40 million will be spread out over time.
Our next question comes from Sohail Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Pardon me if some of these things you have mentioned I was a little late in the call.
I wanted to understand the tax rate for fourth quarter.
How should we think about it? Roger? Well I would just comment as you know in the second quarter that we switched to the discrete method for taxes.
So going forward I would continue to take that same approach we had in the second quarter and third quarter.
As you know year-to-date we're at $14 million of tax expense.
And our tax fluctuation is really based on what happens with our LIFO reserve.
So Sohail I would just add our taxes have been very challenging to understand ever since we've recorded the reserves for the deferred tax assets.
For example in a quarter where we have a loss of the taxes exacerbates that loss because of the benefit associated with that.
That is a LIFO strategy.
Similarly if one were hypothetically to be in a profitable situation the taxes could benefit that.
So it's going to continue to be challenging.
We'll do our very best to point that out the -- in our guidance and in our release.
But one of these days hopefully it will return to more normal-type taxes.
But I would comment our year-to-date we have had $34 million of LIFO credit and you're taking the tax effect of that as basically as our tax expense.
It's pretty much the main driver.
So whatever you would project for LIFO credit in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then next quickly any comment on the pension tailwind in 2014 from the discount rate and better asset returns this year? Let me start and again Roger can fill in the details.
I think things are moving directionally very favorably for us.
As we've said in the past every 25% move in the discount rate's worth about $75 million.
I think that number in recent discussions with our actuaries is it's closer to $90 million.
So 1% move might shrink the delta between our assets and our liabilities by something like $350 million.
Of course we haven't closed the books yet.
We'll see what happens to interest rates between now and the end of the year but clearly that's moving in a very positive fashion.
I think the other thing Sohail that I'd just take the opportunity to mention and to highlight is we've peaked or nearly peaked in terms of the pension contributions.
Long time ago we locked and froze the pension plans.
We've had excellent pension performance the discount rate's moving in our direction.
And we've now made all of our pension contributions for this year.
Next year be in that $200 million kind of range.
But as we look out to say 2015 and again without a lot of fine-tuning here we should see the movement of our contribution decline by $80 million to $100 million kind of range.
So it is a meaningful delta in terms of the cash needs to fund the pension as we get out to 2015.
And I might just tag team with that it's also a meaningful delta with respect to the cash required to fund our strategic capital investments.
Next year's a big year.
We still have about $100 million to put into Magnetation then we're done.
So if you take the Magnetation out of the equation the pension side of the equation we really do look as though we have and in fact we expect to have a lot less needs from a cash standpoint beginning in 2015.
And I'd just add to that also as I've mentioned we completed the final fundings for our [indiscernible] which was $28 million.
So we're done with that and that liability will transfer over to the retirees effective January 1 2015.
Research Division</strong> This is great color.
Jim one more thing I want to talk to you about.
If I ask you about your iron ore I mean if I look at the iron ore price today and I believe you have always mentioned that for modeling purposes we should use the whatever the market pricing channels CFR prices because your prices are based on that.
And I if I look at the comment from steel Ramex [ph] on their joint venture with Magnetation and they actually put in writing that their cash costs or costs on that Magnetation concentrate is under $50 per metric ton versus [indiscernible] CFR $135 [ph] and I do this delta for 1.5 million-ton benefit you will get after that is complete and the profit you're going to make on the rest of the portion where you are you still have a JV in the rest of the business.
Plus looks like your -- if I interpret the contract you have signed with Cliffs starting from 2015 it looks like that's also very beneficial compared to what you're paying now.
That could be a pretty significant amount.
I mean savings in iron ore compared to where the market is right now.
Am I looking at it right? You are indeed Sohail.
Again we think that Magnetation's going to make not only a great quality product but a very low cost product.
We'll enjoy a discounted price to the market.
We'll also get 50% of the profitability of that venture.
So that's a good deal.
And then I think look leverage works in both ways and I think when you're in the market buying half as many pellets as you used to which is our position after we get Magnetation up and running you kind of find out who really wants to play with you and we've partnered up with Cliffs we think that's a great long term relationship.
I believe it's a 10-year deal and that should serve both parties very well.
But I think you've characterized it very well.
It should be very beneficial to us going forward.
Our next question comes from Dave Martin of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back quickly to AK Coal.
Just one follow-up if you would.
Has the cost structure of the asset or the extraction costs of that operation changed what you had originally thought? No.
We feel very good about the progress that we've made.
We got an excellent team down there.
We continue to improve our cost performance our yield performance.
I would say we're really right about where we thought we were going to be.
We had a slight delay for a while in permitting and other issues come up as you might guess.
But it's pretty much as we thought.
The thing that's changed is where we thought that the market price for low-vol coal and coal generally would be.
That's a very significant change from a year or 2 ago.
And I think that we have to look at this as being opportunistic and our costs in the early days here are obviously going to be higher than when we get the mine fully up and running and the additional mines and the -- where we think costs will be then.
But we're going to be opportunistic.
It makes sense for us I said we have to sort of adjust our sales in the storm and we're doing that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly I just wanted to come back to cash flow and leverage.
You noted that working capital was a usage in the third quarter and your debts increased and if I'm reading your comments correctly you're implying that working capital is going to be a source of cash in excess of $90 million in the fourth quarter.
So I'm just trying to understand how and where the working capital benefit comes from potentially when volumes and average prices are increasing? I'd give a couple of comments there.
One is in regards to our unplanned outage when that occurred at the end of the second quarter we already had the raw materials here.
So you can't make those raw materials disappear overnight.
So with the reduced operating levels in the third quarter we were running with higher inventory levels than we would have liked to and that we would have planned to.
We did make up part of our production shortfall with our Butler EAF so we were producing and meeting our customer needs.
But we were falling short in building the inventories.
So our goal is here in the fourth quarter that we will correct our raw material inventory situation and get that drastically reduced.
And that will be the key driver to our working capital improvements.
Our next question comes from Bruce Klein of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering CapEx for next year what might be a good number I know Magnetation's at least I think you said $100 million and possibly some for coal but what might be a reasonable number? We really haven't provided guidance yet for next year.
I would comment that Magnetation we would anticipate making our final $100 million investment.
That would probably occur prior to the start up with the pellet plant but it'll be spread out next year.
AK Coal as I mentioned the total investment there will be $96 million.
We've invested $57 million thus far.
I don't see it being a substantial number there and that as we push off a little bit at the startup of the mine that will move more into 2015.
But -- and then our normal CapEx maintenance CapEx.
We haven't landed on it at this point.
We've certainly got a long list of items that we'd like to do.
We're mindful however of the world in which we operate.
And I think to Roger's point we have sort of a base capital load that I think historically has sort of bounced between the $50 million and $75 million sort of range.
And without having had a formal -- a capital presentation that's been approved by our board I would say that's sort of a range I'm comfortable talking in.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question is if you look at this -- the other income and expense line it's swung to a loss this quarter and I believe that's where that Magnetation joint venture flows through.
Can you help -- if there's anything else that's flowing through that line that's turning into a loss? Yes a comment -- 2 things.
One when if you compare it to the second quarter we did have a gain when we did issue or bought back some debt and we had about -- close to a $3 million gain on that.
So we have -- we were kind of favorable in the second quarter.
In the third quarter we had a -- and the key driver was Magnetation you're exactly right that's where it is reported.
There's 2 things that were occurring there.
One is that Magnetation as you know went out and raised $325 million of senior notes earlier this year.
The project is moving along very well.
However until you spend the money on that you cannot capitalize the interest.
So they're carrying a little bit higher interest costs that's flowing through their P&amp;L.
But it was the best decision we felt and Magnetation felt for their company to have the liquidity there and make sure we had plenty of financial support to support the building of the pellet plant.
So with that came the negative of carrying a little bit higher interest carry cost as we're ramping up to get the pellet plant ramped up.
And that as Jim mentioned is moving along very well as we anticipate that starting up well in a year over a year in advance of what we originally said when we announced this back in the fall of 2011.
So that was one key success factor that Magnetation had to get positioned for the setup of the pellet plant.
The other thing is as part of it Magnetation had hedged part of their iron ore as they were doing their capital markets transactions.
If you remember earlier this year the IODEX had dropped quite a bit.
So to ensure there was a cash flow stream to support their debt structure they had hedged that and those -- the hedging that they do on some of their iron ore is mark-to-market.
So they did have a mark-to-market impact here in the third quarter.
It would not be ongoing -- that we would not anticipate unless the IODEX continues to rise.
But that was part of the impact also.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay it make sense.
And on the metallurgical coal I think Jimmy said that that we maybe we see third-party purchase cost in met coal declined single-digit in 2014.
If we roll in what you're achieving with your own operations and what can we expect the overall met coal cost to decline? Not sure that we're there just yet.
And again I think one asset taking into context of really all of the raw materials and so we'll continue to pull our plan together for next year.
I think the best guidance that I could give you is that we'd look for prices to be down.
But we wouldn't necessarily sort of pull out pieces and parts and give you our percentages for each just yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one if I might is on the pension cash contribution.
And I believe there's a difference between the ERISA versus just GAAP reporting.
And I thought you guys got some of the benefit of the discount rate changes last year for ERISA purposes which impacts the cash flow.
Am I thinking about that correctly? Or are some of the numbers you gave earlier actually refer to cash and is on top of the benefits you got last year? No you're correct.
We did get the benefits of using the 25 year smoothing for calculating what our pension funding requirements are.
As Jim mentioned in total we've funded $181 million this year which $41 million we completed here in October.
So we completed our pension funding.
Next year we estimate that number's around $210 million and as we previously disclosed the following year being about $125 million.
So although those would reflect to 25-year smoothing but when you look at purely our balance sheet the discount rates as Jim noted had dropped substantially or had gone up -- risen this year which is substantially reducing our pension and OPEB liability especially on the pension front.
And why those haven't been yet reflected in our financial statements because that remeasurement will not occur until December 31.
So whatever the interest rates are here or at the end of this year if they continue to go at the pace they're at we'll see a reduction in our liabilities on our balance sheet which will be different than what we do from a funding perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should see an income statement benefit but cash flows might be -- it'll be what you guys have already disclosed? I'd say balance sheet benefit.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One other question on AK Coal.
Just if -- to ask it another way.
So the first mine that's now producing is that mine in the money at current coal prices and you're keeping it open because you've got an economic benefit at current prices? Or is it open and you're deferring 2 and 3 just because you've just started developing that mine and so you want to continue to go ahead with production there even though you may not be getting the cost advantage that you had hoped or that you thought it was going to give you? I'd answer at this point Justine the first mine is doing exactly what we thought it would be doing at this point in time.
Of course there are start-up costs and costs are little bit higher.
But as we pull the volume and as we get a little bit deeper into the mining process and get a better quality kind of substrate if you will coming through that should continue to benefit us.
There has just been this dramatic drop really in terms of the overall market that we feel is wise to take advantage of while it's in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is on the mix of contract and spot because I know a few years ago AK Steel had more exposure to their contract business -- the contract automotive business then you moved away and now you're moving back.
What is the customer response to this? I mean are the auto companies very happy to enter into more long-term contracts with you guys now and are they appreciative of the fact that your view on the market has changed or have they said "No " first thing that you "No we won't actually do more spot business with you because of where -- what their outlook is for steel prices?" Well let me try and answer that the best I can.
Look every relationship with every customer including our relations with our auto customers are a sort of unique and special and different.
A lot of elements go into that.
A lot of them are decades old if not more than a century old.
The fact that we moved away from some of them or at least declined in terms of exposure what -- was a conscious decision on our part.
It was a very different marketplace as you know a few years ago than it was -- than it is today.
It remains the largest consuming steel segment out there.
It's always been attractive to us.
It's just varied.
And I think you really have to step back and look at how we've invested in our company how we've invested in our plants in our property and equipment.
How we've spent our capital.
It's been deployed really with a focus to serve the highest toughest applications the toughest customers to satisfy and that's a perfect fit really for the automotive space.
They have embraced what we do.
We've repeatedly been growing with them.
In fact as I mentioned in my prepared remarks just seeing the growth rates that we've experienced have been higher than the overall market.
So I think that positions us very very well.
Oftentimes we get a look at some of the products that are coming to market maybe a first look or an early look.
And it's really a function of a whole number of things.
It's those facilities it's our people it's our focus it's the R&amp;D it's innovation it's continuing to be on the cutting edge including things like advanced high-strength steel.
So we built a company to serve them and I think today we've got something like 50% of our sales that would be related to the auto sector.
That doesn't concern us.
It's a very good place to be.
And not everybody can do it well and we'll continue to grow that profitably.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Roger I just had a question about the impact for the Middletown outage.
You talked about it being $11.8 million.
What's exactly embedded into that number? Well there's 2 components to it.
We did have an insurance recovery as we had provided in our guidance of about $14.4 million.
So that impact that we've disclosed is the net effect to our cost.
And basically the impacts are where we were not running for a period of time so the fixed cost that we absorbed and what we had to do to make sure we kept our customers in steel and everything we incurred on an operational front.
Research Division</strong> And how should we take your outlook commentary regarding that piece kind of that piece of the puzzle going into the fourth quarter? How should we think of that bridge in that component? Yes if you look at it in the second -- the third quarter we had about a $12 million impact.
And what we're saying year-to-date is it's been about $18 million.
In total we estimate $20 million to $23 million.
So that would leave $2 million to $5 million range that we would incur in the fourth quarter.
So that would be substantially below the $12 million we incurred here in the third quarter to kind of give you a bridge from 3Q to 4Q.
Research Division</strong> Okay that would be inclusive of any insurance proceeds that you would get? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up if I may I appreciate it.
The iron ore cost that you're moving through the P&amp;L at this point I know that you said you had hedged some in moving into 2013.
And the IODEX has been moving up since the middle of the year but just curious as to how you see your cost basis for iron ore moving into the fourth quarter and potentially even early in 2014? Okay.
If you look at it from the iron ore if you look at for the fourth quarter of 2013 using the period of June through August the IODEX comes in at $126 per metric ton.
If you look out into the future for the next quarter for first quarter '14 if that will use a period of September through November and so however the IODEX falls out for there is what we'll see going into the fourth quarter or into the first quarter.
Giving you a comparative number the third quarter number was $134 a ton.
So we've seen about an $8 drop from 3Q to 4Q.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> Obviously you guys are pretty big users of steel scrap.
With the big DRI plant in Louisiana now delayed until year-end are you seeing any impact from that on the markets for scrap and maybe from some of your sources? Our short answer is no at least not yet.
We continue to monitor that closely.
I think as you indicated we're pretty big users of scrap ourselves and we'd be mindful of any movements there of any significance and to date the answer is no.
Inc.</strong> Do you use any imported pig iron or some flex material? No.
From time-to-time including recently we'll purchase some enhancers if you will to our burden HBI or HBS.
And from time-to-time we've done that sort of thing.
But look we continue to step back and evaluate is there a place for DRI as a scrap substitute for us? We haven't landed on that.
I think we -- with our overall metals position are comfortable but we'll keep an open mind.
I would add that our friends at Magnetation have entertained a number of interesting discussions about people who would sort of tout the fact that maybe they should add a DRI plant in Reynolds Indiana.
That's something that I'm sure they'll continue to consider and look at in terms of whether or not it makes good economic sense.
But we have nothing further to offer in terms of how it might impact AK Steel at this point we like our blend.
Inc.</strong> And did you buy any slabs during the blast furnace outage? Or was there not enough time? We -- it's a really good question Chuck.
We attempted to supplement our shortfall in Middletown first of course at Ashland.
Secondly with the capacity that we built for ourselves with the #5 EAF at Butler.
And a very small segment of slabs were purchased but it was an insignificant number really to -- a few thousand really to the third quarter.
Our next question comes from Sam Dubinsky of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few quick ones.
What percent of your Electrical Steel business is based on annual contracts? And in tandem with that question do you think electrical steel pricing can improve with a preliminary decision on antidumping or do we need the trade case to come to fruition? Probably the majority of our Electrical Steel business is under contract.
It has declined a bit but I would say that it's run in a range of probably 2/3 to 80% in that kind of variety.
In terms of the impact of the trade cases again it's an important tool.
We've utilized the tool.
I think different customers have reacted differently.
But clearly we've seen an interest in talking to us about supply for 2014 and we're looking to fulfill that interest.
LLC Research Division</strong> But do you think there is an impact in the sense that you said that electrical steel price is currently weak do you think there is a chance that it can be up next year with this trade case in the backdrop or is it more of a '15 phenomenon in your best guess? And I have one last follow-up.
I think it's already had a bit of an impact whether or not that means that it will be up next year perhaps it will sort of stop the hemorrhaging.
We'll step back and see what the relationship is as it evolves.
They've just been filed as you know.
We're hopeful that the actions of the Commerce Department and ITC brings some rather swift activities here in the fourth quarter and in the first and second quarters of next year.
And I think that will really tell the tale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question is if Magnetation were unhedged could you disclose what the profitably would be for the JV? And also what's the -- what's the production concentrate for Q3? What -- comment one on given the profitability I mean if you look at how much money they lost they did lose here in the third quarter naturally the mark-to-market which was most of their loss.
The interest expense is what's carrying them to a loss currently.
And so we don't specifically disclose exactly how much concentrate they're making they're working on.
We've got the facilities up and running both Plant 1 and Plant 2.
They do sell part of that concentrate and they actually are building some inventory also in preparation for our upcoming startup of our pellet plant.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Guys given that your outlook between steel prices and pension costs and everything else like this the outlook is really clear to you -- it's actually quite a bit better.
The way we model it Magnetation gets kind of tight on liquidity around the end of 2014.
Is there a possibility just because obviously there's about $100 million a year of benefits kind of takes the middle of the range it accrues to you once Magnetation starts to be a full partner of yours.
Is there a chance that you guys actually put in more money just to kind of get them across the finish line? I'm basically asking the how much do you want to support Magnetation question given that liquidity is better question? Very fair point Brett.
I would just say that the $100 million that we're still going to contribute next year should get them over the finish line and really put them in good shape.
They've done a magnificent job not only of constructing facilities and bringing them up to fruition.
This is a really seasoned management team.
They understand that business very well.
They've got a very good handle on cash flow production cost any number of things transportation which we've been working on them with of late.
So we don't anticipate the need nor their request for us to provide additional funding there of any sort.
Our final question comes from Chris Olin of Cleveland Research.
I know it's not a big business for you but I just wanted to talk a little bit about the commodity stainless sheet operations.
Seems to us like orders could be getting at least less worse from here and I've seen that you put through some price increase initiatives that probably will stick.
I'm just wondering what you're thinking in terms of how high this could go? Or is there opportunity to get more base price increase on a go-forward basis? Chris I think you follow that segment of the steel space as well as anybody.
It's been a very sort of full space as you know and gotten for with the addition of Outokumpu and so forth.
We saw they're trying to roll up Europe and who knows maybe one day something similar will happen in the States here.
The fact of the matter is the major driver of that pure commodity space is the underlying material in this case nickel after falling substantially for an extended period of time we've seen it begin to move up.
I think that's a good sign.
I think our orders are pretty solid there.
I don't know that it's really anything to write home about.
For us really stainless consists of the commodity space as you're talking about really the 400 series of business and then those special products that we tend to produce out of the Coshocton facility.
And I will tell you at least year-to-date the Auto Chrome business has been fantastic.
The specials have been excellent and really the laggard has been the Commodities Stainless business.
For us that's not a key facet as you noted in your question.
But it's an important part of the business in terms of the swing factor.
We have been seeking higher prices and volumes I think are picking up a bit and I think a lot of that's driven by the price of nickel.
Hearing where the supply is going and the focus from your competitors on lowering the cost does it ever make sense to stop producing the Commodity Sheet? Well we vary ours quite a bit.
It really can be a bit of a swing factor for us.
We're a much bigger player in those other aspects of stainless as well as electrical as you know to fill up sort of the specialty books.
So we'll continue to be opportunistic.
It has not made sense so far to exit but we're always looking at what's in the shareholders' best interest.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Wainscott for closing comments.
Just very briefly Sam thank you.
I want to take this opportunity to thank all of you who are on the call for joining us today and for your ongoing interest in AK Steel.
Again we certainly see better days ahead after a challenging period.
Also I'd take this opportunity in which all of you not only a great quarter but as the unbelievably the holiday season approaches we wish you a very healthy and prosperous one.
Have a great day and a better tomorrow.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures a reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Doug.
Good morning everyone and happy New Year.
We appreciate you joining us on today's call.
Let me cover 3 subjects with you this morning.
First our profits and our people; second our products and our customers; and third our outlook.
Then I'll turn it over to Roger for his review of our financial performance for the fourth quarter and the full year 2013.
But first let me recognize that one of the key leaders of AK Steel John Kaloski who will soon be ending a terrific career in the steel industry.
On January 31 John will be retiring from AK Steel.
As our Executive Vice President and Operating Officer John has played a key role at AK Steel for more than a decade.
For that matter John has had a stellar career in the steel industry that spans more than 40 years.
We congratulate John on a great career and offer our best wishes for a safe healthy and long retirement.
May I also offer my congratulations to our entire team to all of our employees at AK Steel on a solid fourth quarter and a strong finish to the year 2013.
On behalf of our shareholders and all of our constituents we're delighted to deliver our best quarter of the year and to return to profitability in Q4.
That simply would not have been possible without the hard work and dedication of all of our people.
2013 was a year of progress for AK Steel.
Despite facing a number of challenges during the year we persevered and we improved in most facets of our business.
In addition to a weak start in the steel marketplace in the first half of 2013 we also experienced a significant operational disruption at our Middletown Works blast furnace which was the result of a mechanical failure to the charging system.
With that in mind I want to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to our customers for working with us following our unplanned event in June at the Middletown blast furnace.
Production has returned to full capacity and we're hard at work to reduce our carbon steel backlog to all of our carbon steel customers.
At AK Steel we pride ourselves in keeping our people safe and in taking very good care of our customers.
For 2013 AK Steel once again outperformed the steel industry from a safety standpoint.
In addition we were honored for the progress we made on our diversity initiatives and we captured first place for overall customer satisfaction among our integrated steel peers.
We also received an award for our vertical integration investments in Magnetation and AK Coal which are coming to life as we speak.
And utilizing our continuous improvement approach we increased contract sales cut costs improved margins and reported net income by the end of the year.
In short in 2013 we continued to manage those things that were within our control such as employee safety product quality unit productivity and controllable costs.
Let me take a moment to highlight just a few of the standout performances in these areas.
On the safety front outstanding performances were delivered by the employees located at our Rockport Works and Zanesville Works.
Each plant worked the entire year without incurring a single OSHA recordable case.
And Zanesville continues to set a company record of 0 OSHA recordable cases for more than 1 200 days.
For that matter 2013 was a record tying year for the entire company as we matched our lowest ever number of OSHA recordable injuries for a full year.
These results are the product of AK Steel's safety program that's focused on what I call the 3 Es: That is education equipment and enforcement.
Good education and training proper personnel protective equipment and strong enforcement of our safety rules and procedures.
In addition it takes employees attention to detail and proper mindset on a 24/7 basis to make our program the success that it's become.
Let me offer a tip of the hard hat to all of our employees for making and keeping employee safety their highest priority.
Next let me turn to product quality and customer satisfaction key indicators of how we're doing for the people that are responsible for our revenues which is the lifeblood of our or any business for that matter.
From a quality standpoint I'm pleased to report that we established an annual company record for the least amount of internally retreated product for 2013.
In other words in 2013 we made it right the first time more times than ever before.
That's progress.
In productivity and yield lines we set numerous records at our carbon and specialty steel finishing units with the greatest gains achieved at our Butler Works and Coshocton Works locations.
From an external quality standpoint our customers were very happy with our overall quality performances as well.
For the full year 2013 Jacobson and Associates an independent survey of customers showed that AK Steel maintained its #1 ranking in overall customer satisfaction compared to other integrated steel producers.
In addition the Jacobson Survey showed that AK Steel's specialty steel customers also gave us their #1 ranking for our performance for the year 2013.
On behalf of all of us at AK Steel I want to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to our customers for their business that we continue to enjoy and for the faith and confidence they've shown in our company.
Serving our customers better than any other steelmaker with some of the finest carbon stainless and electrical steel products produced anywhere in the world is what AK Steel is all about.
We'll continue to take the best possible care of our customers as we grow profitably together.
Wherever possible we increased profitable sales in 2013.
That was most evident in the automotive sector where our shipments increased by more than 8% in 2013 compared to 2012 and this compares to overall automotive market growth of approximately 5% for the year 2013.
Now let me transition and offer a few comments on what things look like as we enter the year 2014 and what we expect to see as the year unfolds.
Although we're not providing specific guidance at this time for our first quarter 2014 let me give you some sense of what we are seeing and what we expect to occur.
The automotive market which represents approximately 50% of our sales remains strong.
Based on a continuing positive outlook for the automotive sector that shows auto builds approaching 17 million units for 2014 we anticipate higher shipments of carbon and stainless steel products in 2014.
In terms of 2014 contract pricing we're seeking higher prices as current agreements expire each of our sales agreements with automakers is unique and those agreements expire at various times throughout the year.
Housing is also picked up considerably up nearly 20% in 2013.
Most economists expect another 15% to 20% increase in housing starts for 2014.
And for the first time since 2007 new housing starts are expected to top the 1 million-unit mark in 2014.
Obviously this is a positive for appliance and HVAC demand for power generation and transmission demand and for overall steel demand.
The infrastructure and manufacturing or I&amp;M market is gaining strength.
This market is where we will benefit from improving construction activity both residential and non-residential as well as gains in general manufacturing.
We are especially excited to see that the non-residential construction market and in particular privately funded construction projects is expected to be much more favorable in 2014 than in 2013.
Taking all of this together our lead times are extended into May for all carbon steel products except for hot-rolled.
We have only a small amount of hot-rolled remaining to be sold for the first quarter and as a result we're in a much stronger position at this point in the first quarter of 2014 compared to a year ago or really about as far back as we can remember.
And we expect market conditions for carbon steel products to remain strong for at least the near-term.
One of the reasons for our optimism is the relatively solid level of -- and low level of steel service center inventories in particular.
In terms of service center inventories the seasonally adjusted average month supply on-hand as of December 31 2013 was 2.1 months.
This compares to the long-term historical average of about 2.4 months of supply on-hand.
These lower inventory levels have created a tighter market since production must not only support demand but also help replenish the supply chain.
Here's where stainless steel inventory stands.
Seasonally adjusted stainless steel service center inventories were at 3.1 months of supply on-hand as of December 31 and that compares to a historical average.
It's been closer to about 3.8 months.
With that let me offer a few comments on what we're seeing in the electrical steel market.
The electrical steel market continues to suffer from excess capacity unfairly traded imports and relatively flat demand.
As most you know in late 2013 we filed trade cases on grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES products and non-GOES material against a host of global producers including China in order to level the playing field.
We're pleased with the progress of these cases to date and in each case the International Trade Commission has made a preliminary finding in favor of the domestic industry with respect to material injury.
The next step is for the Department of Commerce to make its preliminary determinations with regard to dumping and subsidies.
Those determinations are expected in the first or perhaps the second quarter of this year at which point the Commerce Department may impose preliminary duties.
That said within the U.S.
we expect comparable to slightly lower electrical steel shipment volumes for 2014 as compared to 2013.
In addition with the European economy still in recovery mode and with brutal pricing we anticipate lower international electrical steel shipments for 2014 compared to the prior year.
Stainless specialty steels for a moment with some of the strongest automotive demand that we've seen in years we are experiencing solid demand for our 400 series or autochrome stainless steel products.
Similarly we're looking for increased shipments of our specialty sheet and strip products that are produced mostly at our Coshocton Works.
From a volume standpoint we're not a big player in the commodity chrome nickel market which remains a very crowded place to be.
Instead we're much more focused on bringing more innovative products to market.
Moving for a moment from revenues to costs.
We expect to benefit in 2014 from lower steelmaking input costs primarily coal coke and a few other things but that will begin mostly in the second quarter.
We are indeed currently seeing higher scrap prices and much higher natural gas costs for the first quarter of 2014.
We also expect our iron ore cost to be higher in the first quarter of '14 than the fourth quarter of '13 although we anticipate lower iron ore costs for the balance of the year 2014.
Importantly we expect to benefit from the start up tonnage produced for Magnetation's pellet plant that scheduled to begin operations in the fourth quarter of 2014 or perhaps late in the third quarter of 2014.
But in any event it's just around corner.
And when it does occur we expect it to be meaningfully helpful to our bottom line.
So there you have it.
That's a quick overview in terms of our profits and people our products and customers and our outlook.
Following 5 challenging years for the steel industry and for AK Steel from 2009 to 2013 we now expect to emerge as a stronger company on every front in 2014.
And as we emerge from the challenges of the past 5 years our attention at AK Steel is concentrated on that acronym E executing our plans; and maintaining our focus on our core values and continuously improving things like safety and quality and productivity; enhancing our earnings and cash flow; completing our raw materials' strategic initiatives growing profitable sales and enhancing margins as we are indeed energized for our future.
Coming off a very solid fourth quarter of 2013 we'll build upon our success.
We're confident that better days are ahead thanks to a combination of the qualities that differentiate AK Steel in the marketplace like great people superior performance and world-class products all leading to improved profitability.
Thank you very much.
Now for a review of our financial results here's our VP of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported net income of $35.2 million or $0.26 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our fourth quarter results included a noncash income tax credit of $22.7 million or $0.17 per share as a result of the allocation of income tax expense to other comprehensive income.
Excluding this income tax credit our adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $12.5 million equal to $0.09 per share which exceeded our fourth quarter earnings guidance.
As expected our fourth quarter results were impacted by $4.3 million or $0.03 per share as a result of costs associated with the unplanned outage at our Middletown Works blast furnace that occurred last June.
Our fourth quarter results also included $2 million of costs associated with planned major maintenance outages.
This was about $2 million lower than we had incurred in the third quarter for major planned outages.
Our fourth quarter results demonstrate a substantial improvement from our third quarter results and we are pleased that we have returned to profitability.
Our shipments of 1 420 000 tons for the fourth quarter of 2013 represented an increase of 178 000 tons or about a 14% improvement compared to the third quarter of 2013.
And they were slightly better than our guidance of approximately 1.4 million tons.
With the unplanned Middletown Works blast furnace outage behind us we were able to begin to capitalize on the strong carbon steel market during the fourth quarter including the achievement of higher shipments.
However with a higher percentage of carbon steel shipments sold into the spot market our average selling price for the fourth quarter was $1 031 per ton a decrease of $40 per ton or roughly 4% compared to the third quarter but in line with our guidance.
Sales also improved in the quarter -- fourth quarter and totaled $1 465 000 000 about 10% higher than third quarter sales.
In the fourth quarter our LIFO credit was $4.3 million down significantly from the LIFO credit of $15.8 million in the third quarter.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interests that are included in our operating results.
Our non-controlling interests consist primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the non-controlling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $87.2 million which represented an improvement of $34 million or more than 63% compared to our third quarter EBITDA.
On a per ton basis our fourth quarter EBITDA improved to $61 per ton compared to $43 per ton in the third quarter an increase of $18 per ton.
Again our fourth quarter EBITDA results represented our strongest quarter of 2013.
Moving to our results for the full year of 2013.
Shipments for the year 2013 were 5 275 900 tons a 3% decrease compared to 2012.
While our shipments for the fourth quarter were at their highest levels since the second quarter of 2011 our shipments for the full year 2013 were lower than we had desired due to the combined impact of the unplanned blast furnace outage as well as weak market conditions in the early part of the year.
However as Jim mentioned we are pleased to have grown our automotive market shipments during 2013 compared to 2012.
Our average selling price for the year 2013 was $1 056 per ton a decrease of $36 per ton or roughly 3% compared to the prior year primarily due to the lower steel prices in the first part of 2013.
Sales for 2013 were $5.6 billion compared to $5.9 billion in 2012.
On the operations front we incurred expenses of $22.3 million or $0.16 per share in 2013 as a result of the unplanned Middletown Works blast furnace outage.
For the full year of 2013 we incurred $29 million in planned major maintenance outage costs and this compares to roughly $31 million during 2012.
At the bottom line for the year 2013 we reported a net loss of $46.8 million or $0.34 per share compared to a net loss of $1 027 000 000 or $9.06 per share for the year 2012.
Our results for the year 2013 included a noncash income tax charge of $14.4 million or $0.10 per share as a result of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance changes.
By comparison our results for the year 2012 included a noncash income tax charge of approximately $866 million or $7.63 per share as a result of a change in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance as well as a pretax pension quarter charge of $157.3 million or $0.86 per share.
Turning for a moment to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 our capital investments totaled approximately $15 million roughly the same as we invested in the third quarter.
Working capital was a source of cash of approximately $99 million during the fourth quarter as we remained intensely focused on managing working capital.
As expected for the full year working capital was a source of cash of approximately $7 million.
By comparison in 2012 working capital was a use of $114 million of cash.
We ended the year 2013 with solid liquidity of $845 million which represents an increase of $33 million from our September 30 2013 liquidity level.
Accordingly we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations as well as execute our strategic initiatives.
We also remain well positioned to continue to service our legacy liabilities.
Let me take a moment to comment on our pension and VEBA funding.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we made a $41 million pension contribution which fulfilled our pension funding requirement of $181 million for 2013.
I'm pleased to report that we achieved an investment return of nearly 14% in our pension investment portfolio for 2013.
That represented a solid performance for 2013 based on our asset allocation of roughly 60% equity and 40% fixed income investments.
Our pension funds' excellent investment performance in 2013 resulted in a further reduction of our estimated future pension funding requirements.
For 2014 we currently expect to contribute approximately $205 million to our pension trust.
Of that amount we already contributed $41 million earlier this month and we expect to make the remaining contributions of approximately $165 million throughout the remainder of 2014.
We are also pleased to note that our pension contributions in 2015 which we previously expected to be approximately $125 million are now expected to be approximately $105 million or $20 million lower.
In 2016 our current estimate for our required pension contributions is roughly $65 million.
These are very manageable pension funding levels and they represent substantial declines from our 2013 and 2014 pension contribution levels.
With regard to our balance sheet we saw significant improvement in our pension liability.
As a result of the performance of our pension assets in 2013 as well as an increase in the discount rate from 2013 of 68 basis points our pension liability as of December 31 2013 narrowed to $572 million representing a reduction of $596 million or more than a 50% reduction since December 31 2012.
Turning to other post-retirement benefits.
We completed the third and final payment to the Butler VEBA in 2013.
As a result effective January 1 2015 all the future other post-retirement employee benefit or OPEB obligations related to the Butler retirees will become the responsibility of the Butler VEBA trust.
In 2013 we also completed the first of 3 annual payments of $3 million each to fund the Zanesville VEBA and effective January 1 2016 all future OPEB obligations related to the Zanesville retirees will become the responsibility of the Zanesville VEBA trust.
Similar to the pension liability as a result of the increase in the discount rate during 2013 of 71 basis points the OPEB liability on our balance sheet at the end of 2013 declined to $470 million a reduction of $123 million or more than 20% since the end of 2012.
In total between the end of 2012 and the end of 2013 our combined pension and OPEB liabilities declined by $719 million or more than 40%.
Now turning to our outlook.
As is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the first quarter of 2014 in March.
While we're not providing financial guidance at this time we would like to provide a few data points for 2014.
As Jim mentioned we expect coal and coke cost to decline in 2014 starting in the second quarter.
For the full year 2014 we expect a decline of roughly $70 million in our coke and coal costs compared to 2013.
We also expect to be impacted in the early part of 2014 by the rising cost of natural gas which is being driven by the extreme cold weather conditions in the United States.
Turning to capital investments.
We anticipate total capital investments of approximately $60 million in 2014.
In addition we expect to complete our strategic iron ore investment with a payment of $100 million into our Magnetation joint venture.
We expect to contribute the full amount prior to the start up of the pellet plant that Jim discussed earlier.
We intend to take a planned outage at our Ashland Works Blast Furnace in the first half of 2014 most likely in the second quarter.
We anticipate that our pension and OPEB will be a combined credit of approximately $105 million in 2014 compared to a credit of $69 million in 2013.
The increase in the size of the credit is primarily the result of the substantial increase in the pension plan assets and the amortization of gains and the significant decrease in our pension liability.
Finally with regard to income taxes our book tax rate for 2014 attributable to AK Steel excluding SunCoke will again primarily be a function of the tax effect of our LIFO charge or credit.
For example if we incur a LIFO credit we will incur a tax expense for the year.
And if we incur a LIFO charge we will incur a tax benefit for the year.
While we do not provide specific guidance on LIFO we currently do not expect a large LIFO credit like the one we incurred in 2013.
The actual LIFO charge or credit will primarily be driven by raw materials and energy costs.
We also expect that our cash taxes will continue to be very minimal given our NOL tax carryforward position.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Sohail Tharani of Goldman Sachs please go ahead with your question.
Research Division</strong> First question on the new iron ore contracts you -- contract you signed last year with Cliffs can you give us the time line when would that start to roll in? And if it is a beneficial contract than what you had been paying in the past considering iron ore prices globally remain the same as 2013? Sal the contract would kick in roughly in the second quarter this year.
And as you know we have a couple providers of iron ore to us.
We don't get into the specifics of our -- each of our contracts with our suppliers as we try to protect that information.
Just on for -- Sal a couple of other thoughts.
First off we're buying fewer pellets right? In the near-term we'll be getting about 3 million tons of pellets every year for Magnetation.
They're going to be great pellets and feed our blast furnaces.
But when you are able then to tell all those suppliers that Roger referred to that you need half of what you used to need I think that really gets everybody focused everyone sharpens their pencils and it winds up being a little bit better situation to be in and we've been in for a long time maybe ever just in the history of AK Steel.
I'd say our deal is a good deal for us.
We'd like to believe that Cliffs thinks it's a good deal for them.
I think it's a normal course deal so we really don't get into the great details except to say we're very very happy with it.
It's a long-term deal.
We're building on our relationship and really between what we're doing at Magnetation and with Cliffs truly it's a game changer for our company in terms of iron ore costs for AK Steel.
It's a wonderful thing.
Can't have it fast enough.
Research Division</strong> Is Cliffs the only provider after Magnetation to satisfy your 6 million tons requirement which you have on normalized basis? I would say there may still be some opportunity for others to play to a smaller extent.
But our primary providers will be Magnetation and Cliffs.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Can you talk a little bit it sounds like the pellet plant is coming on faster than expected at Magnetation.
And then also it's my understanding that something about the contract at Magnetation it looks a little bit more like coaling[ph] than something iron ore-driven? Can you talk a little bit about kind of how the contract for pelletizing works at that part of the business? Let me start with the timing of things.
Of course Magnetation is already about a year ahead of where we thought they were going to be.
Construction schedule is moving along well I mean even though it's frigid here in the Midwest this sort of feels like summer conditions to a lot of the folks from Minnesota who are coming down and building this thing.
They've done an outstanding job so far.
All the equipment's arrived on time we're ahead of schedule.
And everything we see continues to give us hope.
Magnetation I believe has its own disclosure with respect to the timing of these things.
We're comfortable saying second half hopefully late third quarter who knows it's a little bit of luck and hard work it could be sooner than that.
But we're very excited about it.
As I said it couldn't happen fast enough.
Could it be 6 months from now? That would be wonderful and I suppose that's a possibility.
So clearly everything continues to be ahead of schedule and on budget.
And that's all good news.
I don't know you want to talk Roger a little about the financial side of things? Yes Brett as you are aware we have a substantial financial benefit that we expect.
This is a game changer for us with Magnetation.
And as we talked about it the IODEX saves us about $120 per ton that we expect about a $90 million improvement annually.
There's a couple of components that we have in regards to our relationship with Magnetation in the contract and you're talking about being a tolling agreement.
It's really not a tolling agreement.
We have a 49.9% interest in Magnetation.
So we will get 49.9% of their earnings.
In addition there is pricing the way it's determined it has 2 factors.
One there is a discount to the marketplace; and there is also the fluctuation based on what happened with the IODEX.
So those are the drivers for the benefits.
So as the IODEX goes up the IODEX goes down that will affect what our earnings are related to that.
And I'd also remind you that whether the IODEX goes up or down that also affects the other half of the iron ore that I'm buying.
So we either get impacted there negatively or get the benefits if any if iron ore is going up or down.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could provide a little bit more color on the electrical steel market in light of the dumping case.
I thought that maybe there'd be more domestic market capture? And then along those same lines the second part of the question is if you could comment on the report that was out yesterday talking -- how the impact paper is talking about market share losses actually and some customers defecting as a result of the dumping case? If you could answer those questions.
I think the cases were absolutely essential.
Again we can fight or compete if you will with anyone on any given day so long as there's a level playing field.
One of the things that happened really over recent years is the supply of product.
And one of the things that we find whether it's with these cases or earlier cases that we're still working through with respect to electrical steel is it just takes so long to get through the system.
We've shared those thoughts with those who govern our country to make sure that we can expedite this process because in the meantime one does tend to lose opportunity if not market share.
So I would just offer that as sort of a big picture thought.
The fact of the matter is we continue to provide great quality product to our domestic customers and to our international customers albeit there are fewer these days internationally.
The key longer-term we believe once we get through the trade cases and we believe they'll have a positive effect they've already had a positive effect will be for us to continue to innovate and provide great quality products both here and abroad that allow for the efficient movement of electrons.
That's really the game changer for us in that space.
Again customers I think are wanting to make sure that the product they're buying meets their quality standards and that it's at a price that will allow them to compete.
We're continuing to work with them.
We've got great relationships.
I don't know that we've seen anything in any meaningful way in terms of market share losses or that we'd have anything to impart from a wisdom standpoint on that subject.
Except to just reiterate as I said in my prepared remarks that we expect roughly comparable perhaps slightly lower shipments domestically in 2014 versus '13.
And probably still tough sledding overseas for a while as those markets recover.
Our next question comes from Dave Katz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I heard you guys detail the beneficial movement in the pension contribution that you expect over the next couple of years.
And obviously you detailed the fall in total in between pension and OPEB.
But I was hoping that you could break it down and just kind of detail what the pension underfunding by itself moved to? And then a refresh of what you would expect at this point for let's say a 50-basis-point movement in rates? Well I'd comment 2 things there.
As we said in total our total pension and OPEB liabilities went down well over $700 million.
As you're seeing on our balance sheet the discount rate is starting to move up.
From a funding perspective the discount rate is not as big of a deal because there's a 25-year smoothing that's done for the interest rate.
So with the movement in interest rates from a funding perspective not material moves as you've seen there with our numbers that we've given as guidance for both 2014 which went down about $5 million to 2015 which went down about $20 million.
That is really reflecting the benefit of the improved asset returns as the biggest driver.
A smaller piece of that is related to the increase in the discount rate.
One thing I would comment is that when you see it on our balance sheet that a 1% change in the discount rate is about a $300 million reduction in our liability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the natural gas headwind that you said that you might see early this year is there any way to quantify what that could be? We buy in any given year or consume 40 Bcf 45 Bcf in that sort of range.
We will hedge a portion of that if we believe it's appropriate to do so.
We've hedged some of that so we got ahead of the recent rise.
Of course it's understandable what's been going on with natural gas and spending time here in the Midwest or even up in the East Coast.
These are really some of the coldest temperatures that we've seen ever.
Ohio River may even freeze again.
It hasn't done that in about 30 or 40 years.
But so we certainly see that.
Our view longer-term that is later this year perhaps even later this month which would be later this week is that gas will come back down.
But $1 movement in gas is worth about $40 million to us.
We do have some of our agreements that carry a surcharge but there's also different provisions within each of those.
So it's not a perfect hedge kind of situation.
So again I don't know that I'd quantify it just yet.
It's probably hurt us a few million dollars more than we thought at this point in the quarter.
But it's not anything that we're getting too excited about but we're watching it carefully.
And I think that the 4s work better than the 5s and the 3s are even better than the 4s.
You get the point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the 40 to 45 that you talked about you said you'd have some of that early in the year.
I guess that would be 10 to 12 per quarter.
How much of that was hedged in the first quarter? I don't know that we've disclosed really our hedge position historically.
I think we might have had something less than 20% hedged for the full year is what I would say.
Our next question comes from David Gagliano of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of sort of detailed questions with regards to the savings on the coal and the coke side for full year 2014.
First of all I was wondering if you could just tell us why it really doesn't kick in til Q2 versus Q1? I'm guessing it's inventory I just want to clarify that.
And then secondly what was the year-over-year average decline in your coal price the contracts that you signed for '14 versus '13? In regards to the coal and coke you're exactly right the key driver is working through inventory.
There's 2 things there.
With our unplanned blast furnace outage we had a little bit higher raw materials when it came to coal and coke because you cannot stop running a blast or a coke plant.
You got to keep that running so we had a little bit higher inventory levels.
And it's just the normal uptime to work through the inventories also.
So we see that benefit really coming in really kicking in in the second quarter for us.
In regards to specifics per ton in that we don't get into the details.
We buy from a lot of different coal providers.
We are always looking at which blend changes we can do to lower our cost what's the impact on that on our blast furnace and coke plant operations to get the lowest cost that we can through our operations.
So we really don't get into specifics of each coal provider or in total.
But we do buy a little over 2 million tons of coal a year and as we indicated we expect about a $70 million reduction.
So that kind of gives you a ballpark range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's actually helpful.
And then the -- just so we can tighten up our numbers for the upcoming 3 months obviously we got higher nat gas we've got higher iron ore sequentially.
In terms of order of magnitude based on what you see in your order books right now would you expect those cost increases to offset improvements in pricing i.e.
[indiscernible]? I think we'll stay with -- David I appreciate the question.
Certainly understand it.
I think that we'll let a few things kind of play out here and we'll give our more precise guidance with respect to the outlook in the month of March.
Our objective of course as a management team as a company is to have a better year.
And that means having a great quarter every quarter.
But there are a few moving pieces and parts here in Q1 that we've just outlined.
But to be any more precise than that I think we'd be giving you guidance.
We said we'd do that in the month of March.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> Could you talk a bit about anything you might have heard about the ThyssenKrupp sale situation? Clearly the announcement was the end of November.
On the Hart-Scott-Rodino there should have been a -- some kind of a comment in 30 days to somebody.
Haven't heard a word.
We've also heard that the plant has been having a lot of trouble with quality.
Any comments that you might have heard about that also? Well we certainly read the announcement and we're paying close attention to that.
We're really already competing with most of the product that's come out of that facility.
We're already competing with ArcelorMittal today as well.
I don't know that we can really attest to quality issues.
I think the issue has been and will continue to be qualifications and when can they get on new parts and so forth.
I guess it remains to be seen a whether the deal will get done and if so sort of what the requirements of getting the deal done are which is to say that we'll leave it in the hands of the esteemed lawyers regarding the DOJ review and whether or not to satisfy a restraint of trade issues they have to divest of anything.
But look at the end of the day what we like is the fact that 73% 75% of our business is with contract customers.
We've grown substantially with automotive because they like what we do they like the relationships that we have.
We expect to continue to grow.
And I think if you're rated #1 in terms of things like quality delivery service overall customer satisfaction it positions you well.
That's really the field that we have the 4 things.
We have weighed in on this subject matter as I suppose other competitors and customers have and will and all of that I think is being considered.
But we'll see where it all comes out.
It's going to be very interesting.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jim it seems like auto is becoming a more and more important part of your business and that tends to be more fixed price in nature or at least fixed base price in nature if I understand correctly.
Could you help us understand what your sensitivity to just changes in commodity hot-rolled coal prices are now given that more of your mix is fixed versus more variable pricing? Well again I'd first start Brian with the fact that we really built the company invested in our equipment have a mindset and a focus to serve the very demanding aspects that it takes to serve automotive.
And not just any automotive it's exposed automotive as well.
So it's nice to kind of get back to where we were and even get beyond where we were.
We had an excellent quarter in terms of automotive shipments but if I look back into the 2008 and prior time frame we were doing this every quarter.
It's taken us about 5 years to sort of get back here.
And by no means are we done.
We continue to gain market share.
And we think that's a very very good thing for us with the Detroit Three with all the foreign automotive manufacturers.
And one of the trends that's happening in this country that I think is often overlooked is not just the sales rate not just the consumption by American consumers but rather the build rate and what is being manufactured in America and sent overseas.
That's really music to my ears to our company's ears to make things in America for consumption worldwide.
So that's great.
I think you're also seeing continued expansions by the producers into our country and I think a lot of that has gone to the south and our locations serve that extraordinarily well.
It is indeed more of a fixed-price situation but I would remind you that many of our contracts if not most have a variable pricing feature associated with them to help recover certain input costs that may get out of hand from time-to-time.
So that's there.
But we're going to price our products in order to return a margin that allows us to meet the day to day needs of the business and invest for the long term.
Look we want to be there producing the products that our automotive customers need whether it's exposed coated products whether it's advanced high-strength steels and so forth.
To the issue of how all that relates to costs and so forth again we consider costs one of the things that was really eroding our position in the marketplace from a financial standpoint was the fact that we were not integrated at all in terms of things like coal and iron ore.
We're well on our way to solving that to the extent we want to solve that which is about 50% of our needs.
So that will help.
And I think all of this the growth in contract business securing supply at costs that are favorable to the marketplace gives us great confidence in our ability to sort of forecast and deliver future results that will be better and more reliable going forward is how I'd answer that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I was just trying to get a sense if we look at 3Q to 4Q overall profitability improved by about $18 per ton.
I know there are some adjustments in there with the Middletown outage.
So I'm trying to better model if HRC prices start moving around by $10 $20 how should we think about that impact on profit taking into consideration all these costs indexes? Want to give it a go? Yes.
To comment as you know on our contract versus spot we're probably about 3/4 to contract 1/4 spot so that will give you a little bit of a sensitivity as pricing moves what can happen to our bottom line on pricing.
As Jim mentioned and I mentioned on the call here that we see a couple of things rising here in the first quarter scrap is up.
We expect natural gas to be up and iron ore to be up because of the timing of how the Vale model works the 4 month lag of how it flows through.
So -- and we won't see the benefits of the coal and coke until the second quarter.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of flavor.
As Jim mentioned we're not going to give real specific guidance on the fourth quarter -- the first quarter but we're trying to give directionally what we see happening both kind of short-term and longer-term for 2014.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> First question I have when we look around at mostly other mills it seems like your lead times are way ahead of where most others are even on the integrated side.
And I wanted to understand is that a function of your sales strategy? Or is it a function of you being perhaps backed up on orders in some way because of the Middletown outage? How do we think about that? Well again as I said we are -- as full as we've been in a long time we are hoping to ship well hopefully better numbers than we have recently and we have very little left to sale.
I think that's a function of 2 things.
One customers like what we're selling them; and two we did dig ourselves a little bit of a hole.
I think there were some rumblings in the marketplace with respect to delinquency.
That's a very unusual situation for us but it occurred for a reason that was outside of our control and we have brought it under control we believe.
This all relates back to the Middletown blast furnace that we talked about the event occurring in June.
There's some of that for the tightness particularly in I would say cold-rolled product but it's one of the reasons why cold-rolled is probably out to about mid-May for us.
We got a little bit of hot-rolled and we can take orders into the second quarter and we're considering appropriate pricing there.
Coated products for us continues to be very tight because again most of that offering goes to our contract customers.
So I think it's a combination of things but it's mostly what we see is a pretty tight market out there I have to say.
And that's a good thing.
Very good for pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think historically you've been willing to comment on what the changes have been in electrical steel and perhaps auto contracts in terms of year-on-year.
Any color you can give us in terms of '14 on those items? I think we've commented to the extent we're really comfortable commenting in terms of the volumes.
Pricing has been under pressure.
We're meeting competitive situations there but still good business for us just challenging business right now.
Our next question comes from Matt Vittorioso of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just taking a step back on the cost front looking across the last couple of years you've been able to take out it looks like more than $100 per ton of cost on the cost of goods sold line.
Could you break that out between raw materials and other sort of operational improvements? And maybe talk about some of those operational improvements and what they might be? Let me just kind of give you a few thoughts.
This is Jim and Roger you're welcome to chime in.
I would say at AK Steel lowering costs is sort of a way of life.
We don't have a name for it but the fact of the matter is that we have been doing more with less fewer facilities and fewer peoples -- people rather setting safety and quality and productivity records for years if not decades.
And so it's something that we live and breathe every day.
We target initiatives in any number of areas whether it's yields or productivity improvement or maintenance spending lower costs metallic burdens transportation costs and of course all of the things that are yet to come in terms of Magnetation and AK Coal.
I'd also add that our labor agreements have given us tremendous flexibility.
We think they're the best in the industry.
So there is no one thing.
Really at the end of day in the steel business if you make a lot of it you make it right the first time those are the biggest drivers.
But then these input costs that become very very important things like scrap and coal and coke gas iron ore.
Certainly I would say in our case input costs have probably come to the point where they're more than half of our costs.
They might be 60% of our costs these days.
So that's why we focus so much attention on those things.
But to say that we have a certain initiative or a certain project or put a name on it or anything of that sort.
The fact of the matter is it is a way life it is the AK way and we live it every day.
And I'd add to that.
If you look at where our secondary shipments have been as showing what's happening on our quality front we've had great operating performance great quality and you'll see that our secondary shipments were actually less than 2% of our shipments.
So drastic improvement there and that's where you see those reduced shipments add right to the bottom line.
Research Division</strong> And that's very helpful.
Can I just add one last cash flow question? You talk about the OPEB benefit to EBITDA in 2014 being something like $120 million.
What's the cash outflow associated with that? Would that continue to be around that $60 million level? Yes it's probably about $65 million to $70 million in that range.
Our next question comes from Curt Woodworth of Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> I guess back to the contract question Jim.
Can you give us a sense for kind of the progression of when those contracts roll off? Is it heavier in the first part of the year or the second part of the year? And then what percent of your contract business would you say is linked to some sort of spot index like crude or plats? I think we view our contract business as you or your portfolio managers might view an investment portfolio which is to say that you want some of these things to roll off at various times and they do.
Some producers prefer earlier in the year some prefer later some prefer 9 months or 12 months or 18 months.
I would say if I had to come down on one side or the other it's probably a little heavier in the second half of the year and a little less heavy in the first half of the year.
And in terms of the percentage of those that have some sort of variable mechanism again it's the majority.
But again there's also kind of something that's been negotiated.
Each deal is unique and we always hesitate in getting into many details on these because our customers have cautioned us about this but I would just say this that each deal has different components things that matter to one or the other in an effort to sort of balance the risk equation.
And there's sort of a I'll call it a no blood zone in some cases above and beyond which there is a charge or a credit but within that zone sort of nothing happens.
So that's sort of a long-winded answer to say that that's when they come up and sort of what they come.
But everyone is unique and different and special just that is the agreements just as our customers are.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a follow-up on Magnetation.
Have you provided any guidance on what you think your cost to pelletize is going to be and then transportation call outs if there's any further funding requirements for that payment in the Magnetation post this year? I just offer that while we haven't given specific numbers we expect them to be very very competitive very competitive.
Obviously we would not have invested made this sort of strategic decision if we did not think it was going to be meaningfully beneficial to the shareholders of AK Steel long-term.
It will be among the lowest-cost highest-quality pellets produced in America.
And I think if you are familiar with some others who have given information well you can sort of ferret that out.
But it's not producing pellets yet.
We're close but we're not there.
So we'll be a little hesitant as far as giving exact numbers.
But I just reiterate I guess for the third or fourth time on this call this is a game changer for AK Steel.
It's a big deal.
It's hugely important to us.
We're counting on it.
We have every reason to believe it's going to be soon and a really positive financial impact to the company.
Our next question comes from Henry [indiscernible] of Deutsche Bank.
My question was actually answered.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> How are you thinking about strategic capital priorities or debt reduction as you move out maybe into second half of '15 or '16? When do you really envision generating free cash flow given what you're looking at as far as your pension requirements and market conditions? I would just offer Phil a couple of thoughts.
We obviously are looking 2014 squarely in the eye and seeing even though it's down a bit $205 million of pension contributions $100 million due to Magnetation to complete that requirement.
So it's a bit of an unusual year in that regard.
The pension contributions go down by half the next year.
Magnetation's investment goes away.
So 2015 everything looks great.
2014 again we'll deal with the very very best that we can.
Continuing to look at everything very carefully starting with generating solid results from the company and good cash flow there.
Also continue to manage working capital very carefully and our capital investment program.
But there's no question that 2014 things will be tight again as they have been as we work our way to 2015.
In terms of the capital structure and debt reduction and all those sorts of things I think all those things come in due time.
We're mindful of what we had to do to get through really the great recession to make investments that we've made to position the company for future success.
And we look forward to the day when we're generating that cash flow where we can do some meaningful things to reduce debt and then reinvest in the business.
Research Division</strong> And then Roger how does it work from just real simplistically from an accounting standpoint for your pension credit through the P&amp;L to grow so aggressively? I think you had mentioned something around $40 million year-over-year.
Really what drives such a meaningful benefit even from what you experienced last year? Yes the biggest benefit there is driven by 2 factors.
One is the favorable return on our pension assets which we resulted in a gain which lowered our liabilities our net liabilities; and the other one is the rise in the discount rate.
So with those gains that we had we had numerous gains that lowered our liabilities and you amortize those over time.
So that's why you're seeing the increase in the pension and OPEB credit.
Our final question comes from David Deterding of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had one quick question.
If you could just give us a quick update on where we stand with AK Coal? And then as a follow-up to that does the $60 million capital spending that you guys have laid out for this year does that include your -- the spending that you have related to the coal projects? I'll take the second one first.
That's easier.
The $60 million does in fact include what we're going to invest at AK Coal.
AK Coal is doing fine coming along well.
But we have made a decision to sort of slowdown in light of really tough market conditions in the coal business which sort of yields great cost savings which Roger talked about before combining coal and coke $70 million in savings for this year.
I think we said when it's all said and done it should produce about 1 million tons of what we need.
We're probably on a path to roughly 0.5 million-ton level.
And we've got the right focus and really the right approach there.
We still think in the long run it makes great strategic sense for us so that we're not exposed in this world that continues to bring heavy focus in regulation on that segment of the marketplace.
So it's there.
I would say that we've slowed it down just to reflect what is going on in the marketplace and to take advantage of the lower cost opportunities that are there.
Just ladies and gentlemen I want to comment on one other thing.
It wasn't a question asked.
I thought it might be in light of the -- all of the buzz that was created in Detroit over the aluminum vehicle the Ford F-150.
I'd just offer about 30 seconds of comments there.
We would just offer and I know it's on everybody's mind that steel in our view remains the material of choice for automotive design and utilization for a variety of reasons not the least of which is cost paintability repairability and really a host of other reasons including life cycle and environmental concerns.
I don't know that the cost advantage and the life cycle advantages of steel are sufficiently understood.
I think our industry and our company will try and do a better job of that.
But consumers really need to be mindful of the -- not only the increase in purchase price because of the fact that aluminum is 2 to 4x as expensive as steel but also the cost of repairs repair shops are really ready to go for this and insurance cost.
So we'll protect our product and really this space vigorously.
We are delighted to continue to grow with automotive and it's a big bet by certain people but we wish them well.
But we just want to emphasize that our product remains a wonderful product for making automobiles particularly if you want to put your family in that vehicle and keep them safe.
With that ladies and gentlemen again we want to thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
And as we sign off on today's call for your continuing support of our company.
2013 was a year of progress and improvement.
We expect more of the same this year.
We hope that you will join us in about 3 months for our first quarter 2014 conference call.
And until then we wish you a great quarter and a safe healthy and prosperous 2014.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our first quarter financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim.
Thank you Doug.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us today on our call.
I would just say that if there is one good thing that can be said about the first quarter of 2014 is simply this.
Thank goodness it’s behind us.
To say that the first quarter was challenging is an understatement it was very very tough.
Having said that the men and women of AK Steel once again rose the occasion and met our challenges head on and for that I am now and always will be thankful and grateful.
Keys amount of our challenges in the first quarter were weather related and maintenance related outage issues and their related costs.
The extremely cold winter weather which turns out to have been the coldest in decades rail and maritime transportation during Q1.
In addition to the higher energy and transportation costs our operating costs were also much higher than we had expected.
Our first quarter financial results were bought down by a combination of planned and unplanned maintenance outages at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
After experiencing an unplanned event in late February we chose to accelerate a planned blast furnace outage at Ashland Works that had been scheduled for the second quarter of 2014.
We believe this was a prudent thing to do as it positions us well in terms of steel making at Ashland for the balance of 2014.
I’m pleased to report that the majority of these issues including our blast furnace outages are behind us.
Following my remarks Roger will provide you with the costs associated with the first quarter items of which are just spoke but I would just say this that they total about $80 million.
I want to emphasize again that we view these items and their costs as unique to our first quarter and that we do not expect and do recur this year.
Say it another way having worked through these significant first quarter challenges we believe that AK Steel is very well positioned for a much improved second quarter of 2014.
Before leaving the first quarter however I would be remiss if I didn’t take a few minutes to highlight several noteworthy positive items.
Then looking ahead to the second quarter I would like to provide you with an idea of what we’re seeing in terms of the markets that we serve.
As many of you know at AK Steel we value employee safety product quality and unit productivity these things serve really as the foundation of who we are as a company and how we operate.
From a safety standpoint our first quarter 2014 safety performance was stellar in fact we tied our all-time best first quarter performance with only one OSHA recordable case for all seven of our steel making and steel finishing plants that is simply outstanding of special note I want to congratulate our Zanesville Works employees for being recognized for outstanding safety performance by the Ohio Bureau of Worker’s Compensation during the quarter.
Zanesville has now worked more than 4 000 days without incurring the single lost work day or restricted work injury.
And on these same safety metrics Coshocton is nearing the 1 000 day mark and again these are simply fantastic accomplishments by our people.
Staying with safety in the first quarter our Middletown Works coke plant received the Maxi Edward safety award from the American Coke and Coal Chemicals Institute.
The award was given for operating for the entire year of 2013 without a single accident.
I congratulate our employees of the Middletown coke plant on this outstanding honor.
Also during the quarter AK Tube received OSHAS 18001 certification joining Coshocton and Rockport which were previously certified.
Moving from safety to quality we made solid progress in terms of our internal quality measures including both retreated and rejected products.
In fact in the first quarter we set a new record for the lowest amount of retreated product ever in the history of the company demonstrating our continued focus on making it right the first time every time.
Exceptional quality performances were delivered in particular at our Butler and Coshocton locations.
Productivity-wise our Middletown Works blast furnace ran well as did our electric arc furnaces at Butler Works and Mansfield Works.
Safety quality and productivity the gains in these areas are only possible with the commitment of our workforce.
And I happen to believe that we have the finest team of employees in the steel business and some of the most flexible labor agreements as well.
Speaking of labor agreements during the first quarter we reached a new three-year labor accord at our Mansfield Works with Local 169 of the United Steelworkers.
In an increasingly competitive global steel industry this new agreement serves the interest of the Company our employees and our customers.
I might add that we have one remaining expiring labor agreement this year.
That agreement is that our Middletown Works with Local 1943 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
The current Middletown contract is set to expire on September 15 of 2014 although we are hopeful of reaching an early agreement with the IM well in advance of the scheduled expiration date.
Once again safety quality and productivity will continue to remain the hallmarks of excellence at AK Steel and they are only made possible through the great dedication of our people.
Speaking of our people and another group that's really very important to us and that's our customers.
Let me take this opportunity to thank all of our customers for the business that they afford AK Steel.
At our company we strive to serve customers better than any other steelmaker.
This is our mission.
We’ve spent decades building a world-class reputation for producing top-quality flat-rolled carbon and specialty steel products for delivering them to our customers on time and for providing unparalleled customer service.
These characteristics have differentiated AK Steel in the marketplace and they will continue to do so going forward but some of our recent challenges especially on the steelmaking front hampered our ability to provide the high level of customer service that we're known for.
So to those customers whom we may have disappointed let me simply say this.
You can count on AK Steel to regain our leading position and service queue in the months ahead.
I can assure you that we are all over it.
Now let me take a moment to provide you with an update on our raw material vertical integration initiatives Magnetation and AK Coal.
It might first be worthwhile to take a moment to remind you of our strategic rational for making these important investments in the first place.
Several years ago our company concluded that we needed to lower our production costs and enhance our raw materials self-sufficiency.
In seeking to gain greater control over our cost structure we started by successfully securing long-term agreements coke next we saw to acquire iron ore and metallurgical coal interests and we were once again successful in doing so.
As a result today we have long-term competitive supply contracts in place covering about 75% of our coke requirements and we produce the remaining 25% with our own facilities.
I might add that we also benefit from the electricity produced by our coke supplier as their environmentally friendly co-generation technology produces about 15% of the electricity we need to operate our plants but if we are going to manufacture steel using a blast furnace process you also need a steady supply of high quality reasonably priced iron ore the most basic ingredient in making iron.
That’s where our investment and Magnetation comes in; Magnetation is our answer to lower our costs and enhancing our self-sufficiency when it comes to iron ore.
After a very long cold winter spring has arrived in the Midwest and with it Magnetation’s power plant is literally springing to life.
Essentially on budget and well ahead of schedule construction of the pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana is expected to be completed in the late third to early fourth quarter of 2014 with initial pellet production expected to follow.
Beginning next year that is in 2015 we expect Magnetation to be at full production run rate of about 3 million tons annually this represents about one half of AK Steel’s annual iron ore requirements.
In addition we’ll continue to buy an additional 3 million tons of pellets from third-party suppliers.
In other words upon completion and full operation of the pellet plant we will have achieved our goal of 50% self-sufficiency on this key steel making input and we will have created a natural hedge that will help stabilize our total iron ore costs whether iron ore prices rise or fall.
The start up of the pellet plant is a real game changer for AK Steel and we are excited that it’s just around the corner.
Speaking of pellets let share with you that we are facing a very tight supply chain in terms of iron ore pellets being transported by vessels on the largely still frozen great lakes.
Our raw materials purchasing and our transportation personnel have done a good job of trying to ensure that we get the iron ore that we need to make steel.
And until the Great Lakes fully thaw and shippers catch up we’ll continue to constantly monitor and manage our iron ore supply situation that is.
As a precautionary move however until the situation improves we have temporarily reduced the operating rates of our two blast furnaces and we’ve increased the production at our Butler Works electric arc furnace and supplemented our own carbon steel production with purchased slabs.
Now let me turn from iron ore pellets to met coal and in particular to AK Coal.
We are mining more coal than ever at AK Coal’s first mine the North Fork mine which is located in Somerset County in Southwestern PA.
However since we began mining at that location merchant coal prices have fallen substantially and accordingly in light of current anticipated near-term coal pricing conditions we have elected to differ the opening of additional mines at this time.
We’ll continue to proceed with permitting activities but the timing of the opening of additional mines will depend entirely on future market conditions.
It goes without saying but I’ll say it anyhow that the low-vol coal reserves are not going anywhere right.
And when it comes to – rather it makes the economic sense to mine more of our own coal in the future we look forward to doing just that.
Let me now provide you with some insights into what we are seeing in the markets for our products.
Overall I would tell you that the markets that we reserve are either in pretty good shape or they are improving.
That’s because the underlying fundamentals for growth including domestic GDP industrial production and the purchasing managers index are all showing positive signs and while first quarter’s GDP will undoubtedly suffer due to the severe winter weather the outlook is encouraging.
We are slightly more than 50% of our sales to the automotive market we believe that were very well-positioned for growth as this sector continues to exhibit upward momentum.
Despite the bad weather that I spoke of repeatedly we shipped more tons to automotive customers in the first quarter of 2014 than we did in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the year ago first quarter.
As matte of fact our first quarter 2014 automotive shipments were at their highest level since the first quarter of 2007 the highest in seven years.
For the month of March light vehicle sales were 1.53 million units that translates into a seasonally-adjusted annualized sales rate of 16.3 million units and that would represent a 1 million unit improvement in 2014 light vehicle sales compared to 2013 unit sales.
From a light vehicle production standpoint the current projection for the year 2014 after production is estimated at 16.8 million units nearly a 4% increase compared to the 16.2 million units produced in 2013.
As a result as you might imagine we’ve seen solid demand for our coated and cold-rolled carbon steel products and our 400 series or stainless steel products as well.
We expect this trend of solid demand from our automotive customers for carbon and stainless steels to continue for the balance of 2014.
Increased automotive production within NAFTA for consumption around the world has a wonderful ring to it and that’s exactly what AK Steel at America need.
Next let me provide you with our perspective on these service center marketplace and then lastly I’ll provide some color on what we’re seeing in the electrical steel market.
Service center inventory levels remained fairly tight I would say that at the end of March on a seasonally adjusted basis.
Service center inventories for carbon flat-rolled steel products stood at just 2.2 months of supply on hand I guess that’s fairly consistent with inventory levels experienced during the first half of last year but it’s a low number historically.
Steady improvement in the market coupled with recent production disruptions in the sector has resulted in an uptick in our order intake rates our order book is very tight with cold-rolled and coated products booked to near capacity levels.
Because of these factors and the upward pressure that we’re experiencing from our steel making input costs in particular scrap in energy we raised spot market selling prices on two occasions in recent weeks for hot-rolled carbon steel products and we’ll continue to evaluate the need for further spot market price increases to balance our production capabilities with demand.
Let me conclude my market commentary with just a few thoughts then on the electrical steel market.
Although our first quarter 2014 electrical steel shipments were lower than the fourth quarter of 2013 as well as the year-ago quarter.
They were quite a bit higher then we had anticipated for Q1 and we look for this positive trend to continue into the second quarter.
What’s happening is we’re experiencing a combination of factors influencing higher demand including of course the weather effects the U.S.
housing market recovery.
And Europe’s continuing economic recovery as well.
In particular the NAFTA grain-oriented electrical steel market is showing signs of sustained growth in both the distribution and power transformer markets.
While all of this is a positive for us I hasten to add that there remains significant excess global capacity when it comes to electrical steel.
Before turning the call over to Roger to cover our financial results and outlook let me reiterate our belief that AK Steel is well-positioned for a much improved second quarter of 2014.
And for that matter we look to emerge as a stronger company this year.
That acronym emerge provides our direction as we look to execute our plans maintain our focus on our key values of safety quality and productivity importantly enhance our earnings and cash flow bring our raw material strategic initiatives to life including the near-term start up of Magnetation's pellet plant; grow profitable sales; and enhance margins and all of that gets us very energized about our future.
For AK Steel the future is now we are indeed energized and ready to capitalize on opportunities in 2014 and beyond.
There’s a lot to do but we know what to do and we have the right team in place to do it.
I remain confident that AK Steel's best days are ahead of us.
Thanks so much for your attention.
Now here is our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Roger Newport.
Roger.
Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $86.1 million or $0.63 per share for the first quarter of 2014.
Our adjusted net after-tax loss excluding the non-cash income tax charge was $54.4 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
And this result was slightly better than our guidance of a loss of $0.44 to $0.49 per share.
Our reported results differ substantially from our guidance and that difference is due to the methodology we used for income taxes.
When we provided our guidance for the first quarter we expected that we would be utilizing the effective tax rate method in 2014 but subsequently we determine that it would be more appropriate to utilize the discrete tax rate method.
This discrete tax rate method is the same tax method we have been using for the last several quarters.
The key point here is that for the foreseeable future our tax expense or benefit will continue to be based primarily upon changes in our LIFO reserve.
Thus if we have a LIFO credit we will incur a tax charge of roughly 38% of that amount of that LIFO credit.
By the way of example if we were to have a $10 million LIFO credit in 2014 our tax expense for the year would be approximately $4 million.
Alternatively if we had a $10 million LIFO charge for the year we would have an estimated $4 million tax credit.
We realize this can be a confusing subject but we want to take a moment upfront to provide an explanation to this tax change.
As Jim mentioned our first quarter financial results were negatively impacted by four significant events.
One an unplanned outage at our Ashland Works blast furnace which impacted us by about $18 million.
Second an increase in planned maintenance outage cost of $28 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily associated with the acceleration of the planned Ashland Works blast furnace outage that was previously planned to take place in the second quarter of 2014.
Third we incurred $27 million in higher energy cost compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 due to the extreme winter weather conditions and lastly we had a $6 million charge associated with the litigation settlement which was included in our selling and administrative expense.
In summary our first quarter 2014 results were impacted by nearly $80 million cost as a result of these four events.
Our shipments of 1 262 100 tons for the first quarter of 2014 represented a decrease of approximately 158 000 tons were about 11% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
However our actual shipments for the quarter were inline with our guidance.
Due to the unplanned outage at the Ashland Works blast furnace we shipped fewer tons into the carbon steel spot market; this resulted in a richer product mix.
The richer product mix along with the higher spot market prices resulted in a higher average selling price for the first quarter of $1 096 per tone an increase of $65 per ton or roughly 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 and our average price was consistent with our guidance.
Sales for the first quarter totaled $1 384 billion about 6% lower than the fourth quarter of 2013 sales.
In the first quarter our LIFO credit was $1.5 million slightly lower than the LIFO credit of $4.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2013.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest that are included in our operating results.
As a reminder our non-controlling interest consists primarily SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the non-controlling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2014 was a loss of $2.8 million or a negative $2 per ton.
This compares to adjusted EBITDA of $87.2 million or $61 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our previously detailed $80 million of a $90 million difference quarter-over-quarter.
So I will not repeat those items here except to say they were costly outage and weather related items.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
For the first quarter of 2014 our capital investments totaled $14 million roughly to same amount as we invested in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Working capital was a slight consumer of cash at $14 million for the first quarter of 2014 this was comparable to the same period last year as we increased our inventory to support anticipated customer requirements in the second quarter particularly with respect to the automotive market.
On the liquidity front in March 2014 we entered into a new $1.1 billion asset-backed revolving credit facility.
The new credit facility expires in March of 2019.
The new credit facility provides the company with enhanced liquidity and greater financial and strategic flexibility.
We ended the first of 2014 with solid liquidity of $787 million.
Accordingly we continue to believe that we are well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations as well as execute our strategic initiative.
In regards to pension funding our 2014 pension funding requirements which we had previously indicated would be approximately $205 million are now estimated to be approximately $196 million.
In the first quarter we completed a $41 million pension contribution earlier this month we contributed an additional $71 million to the pension fund and we will be making the remaining roughly $84 million contribution in the third quarter of 2014.
As we look beyond 2014 we are pleased that our estimate of future annual pension funding requirement has decreased further based on our current assumptions.
Our estimated 2015 contribution have decreased by about $5 million to $100 million for 2015.
Our estimated 2016 pension contributions have decreased from $65 million to $50 million a reduction of approximately $15 million.
In summary our pension contributions for 2014 through 2016 are now expected to be about $30 million lower than our prior estimates.
Now turning to our outlook.
As is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the second quarter of 2014 in June.
While we are not providing financial guidance at this time as Jim mentioned we expect our results in the second quarter of 2014 to be substantially better than the first quarter as we expect to benefit from lower energy costs the lack of major planned and unplanned outages and no significant litigation settlements.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
(Operator Instructions) Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Sal.
Hey Sal.
Hi just wanted to get some numbers clear over here if I look at quarter-over-quarter the EBITDA decline was about $89 million you had four items of $80 million the rest is probably even more than what I would say the volume decline significant is that the main reason for the other $9 million decline?  Yes that is part of it also we did have a little bit lower LIFO credit primarily driven by the volume.
Got you.
And also if we look at the second quarter so we should expect none of those things are going to be headwinds and perhaps some benefit from the pricing.
How about the benefits of – are you going to see any benefit from your new iron ore contract in second quarter or is it later in the year and also well the Magnetation I know is coming out later this year but any benefit on the iron ore side in the second quarter from the new [indiscernible] contract?  I would comment Sal on two things one back to your first question on fourth quarter first quarter the other items we had was higher raw material costs of iron ore we had mentioned that previously and so that has got that going out for quarter-over-quarter that was a cost increase but if you look into the second quarter for the iron ore as you know that’s based on the IODEX and the four month lag.
So we’d see that actually starting to decline from here in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
So we seen an improvement there.
We will see the benefit of getting lower coal and coke cost starting to kicking in the second quarter we didn’t use quite as much coke and coal in first quarter because of our planned and unplanned outages so the timing of that when it hits is a little bit slower but we’ll start seeing some of the benefit of that in the second quarter.
And then as we work through the pellets as Jim mentioned we’re working through out pellet situation and so we’ll be getting the benefits of the time really what happens with the IODEX at this point.
And I think Sal you are on to something there with all these pieces and parts that you are adding together in terms of the outlook for Q2 and again while we’re not giving guidance today Q2 will be much better and we think that the opportunity is there for an even better second half as we roll through all the additional benefits related to raw materials and really cranking on all cylinders.
Would buying slabs from outside and the Butler slab production will that be as little bit of actually offsetting for factor?  I think it will help us in the second quarter and we’ll continue to evaluate that as we go forward.
A lot of it has to do with what is available and at what price and does it really match our order book but where there is opportunity to do so we are not shy about doing it.
In fact it's something we are going after and have a number of dialogs going on as we speak.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Hey Jim and Roger thanks for the color on sort of what happened in this past quarter.
Can you guys talk a little bit about your contract volume with the spot prices rallying here? Is there any kind of reset that gives you some of the upside that we’ve seen in the spot market for your contract business? Well as you know Brett we have agreements that expire throughout the course of the year as they do expire we are doing our very best and we are achieving higher prices each agreement is a little bit different in terms of how it is put together but this business of sort of managing risk is a very important matter to us and I think our customers over the years have shared some of that risk with us.
In a number of cases though there is a zone within which we are unable to really share some of these cost just had so we ate most of those in the first quarter but I think look we honor our agreements and we’ll continue to honor our agreements.
There is no reset provision on those deals that we all ready have in place but I would remind you we have a number of them that are coming up.
And some of them are as short as even six-months in duration.
So that affords us the opportunity to have good dialogue on those matters.
The other thing I would just add is that we are increasingly being approached about opportunities to assist number of the auto companies who are sort on supply and are facing potential outages.
We’re happy to help but we’re not really in the firefighting business we have some albeit few tons to help but our interest is really more longer term and strategic in nature.
We want to be the supplier of choice to a takeover those parts in the future.
And then the second question is sort of big picture question.
Some of your competitors on the aluminum side are talking about platforms that they know about but cant talk about something resembling off of a very low basic CAGR over the next three or four years 30% market share growth and exposed automotive? Can you guys talk sort of the other side of the coin talk about sort of what you are seeing as you are talking to your customers about somebody’s platforms that go out three and four years? Thanks for asking.
Let me just take a couple of minutes to kind of set a records straight as far as we are concerned at AK Steel on the aluminum story.
At least our perspective of it no doubt they have been getting a fair amount of press they are making certain inroads your kind of numbers are not anything we’ve heard about 30% but just a few of our thoughts first as a company at AK Steel and as a steel industry lest be clear we are interested and life waiting as well right.
We are interested in serving our customers well and those customers have to meet the CAFE Standards of 54.5 mpg by 2025.
Steel is not the problem steel is a huge part of this solution the material of choice for the auto business for years if not decades a century if you will has been steel all right we’ve been a material of choice and we intend to keep it that way for years and decades and centuries to come and automakers have big decisions to make with most of them still evaluating really the tradeoffs between steel aluminum including safety.
We remind our customers and we would remind you Brett and all of you on the call that steel has a lot of unique characteristics strength durability paintability corrosive resistance as well as highly competitive cost and has a much better environmental footprint compared to aluminum as well.
We remind as I say all who listen to those arguments we continue to work closely though with our automotive customers on the steels that they currently need and importantly on the steels that they will be using on those future platforms that you referenced.
I would just offer a couple of more comments here.
Today AK Steel produces the high strength steels that are needed to meet the current requirements of our customers and we are also – we have the material available on the designs that are going into place right now on future vehicles.
So we are really not behind the curve in that regard and in fact we are working to develop in conjunction with our customers the next generation the third generation if you will of advanced high strength steels.
Obviously we’ve seen – its been well written about what one customers has done and we are talking to others about their future needs and many of them are undecided at this point although they are sort of in an experimentation phase.
We are prepared if necessary we are evaluating and we have no announcement today but we are evaluating the need to make additional capital investment to serve automotive customers needs in the future and we’ll have more to say about that as the year goes on.
Finally I would just offer that as consumers makes choices its important as they begin to do so soon its important that they choose wisely look carefully at things like the sticker price but not just the cost the initial cost of vehicle cost of insurance.
Think about how you will get your aluminum vehicle repaired and to the extent that the environment is important to many consumers as it is look at the total emissions package manufacturing use and recycling.
When you look closely at all those things steel wins on all fronts.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now opened.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hi Evan.
Just a follow-up on the last question maybe I know you have kind of talked about potentially doing some partnering to do a continuous line at some points so can you get more involved in some of these generation three advanced high-strength steels.
And we’ve been reading about a new entrant who is coming into the market perhaps down South with the intent of doing advanced high-strength steels and coincidently some electric steels and I wonder if you have giving any thought to perhaps joining forces there? Yes again I just – let me first emphasize that today on our own we are producing all of the high-strengths steel grades to meet the current needs of our customers.
And that as far as we know AK Steel remains the only North American flat-rolled steel supplier addressing the automotive industries need for light weighting and improved fuel economy across multiple body sheet structural and powertrain application.
So it’s a big deal for us we are looking at it and of course we do not have a Cal line we have not yet invested in a Cal line we are evaluating really supply and demand whether we can make the economics that makes sense and really weather we would do it alone or with a partner.
So these are kinds of things that we’re evaluating we’re on it we’re looking at it in a very direct and concerted fashion and I think Evan we’ll have more to say about it as time goes on but lest anyone think that we are again behind the curve we are not we are on it if not ahead of it and the issue really becomes what makes good economic sense for us in the future given our participation with automotive customers.
Got you thanks and maybe just shifting gears a little bit.
Could you talk a little bit about the pellet supply issue? Its surprising to me that it’s impacting just the market for so long now and what is your kind of view on when these issues will subside when you see shipments picking up and when can you really get caught up and ramp your blast furnaces to their full use? We hope it’s very soon but let me just sort of step back and say that kind of what’s behind all this is that we’ve got the second most ice cover in recorded history on the Great Lakes.
So it all really starts with that the early freeze ended of the shipping season few weeks maybe as much as month early last year and then of course the harsh winter has delayed the opening this year.
I think shipping is actually down about 50% high 40s from a year ago this time.
So really anyone who receives raw materials from the Great Lakes is experiencing issues and that includes us and I would guess most everybody else.
We are on it to the extent we can be we cant control the weather but we’re in daily contact with our iron ore pellet suppliers the vessel careers and the coast guard regarding change in conditions weather is improving a bit and then we hear that they get a foot of snow so there is give and take there but we’re doing everything we can to manage our situations and secure the pellets that we need as I said we’ve utilized some ore steel make out of Butler and buying slabs were necessary.
To your point on how long does it last? I would be forecasting the weather if I was to you a precise answer but our sense is that it is going to last well into probably the third quarter of the year.
Could take most of the year frankly for the deliveries to catch-up I mean there is only so many vessels and there is only so much time and I think about the time that things get caught up there will be the thought about lets all avoid [ph] this for next year.
So I think it’s going to be a very busy shipping season and that we will continue to see throughout the summer months that its going to take a while.
I would also offer though that our operations are running as well as they can given that what we have and we expect what’s our delivery is and with the startup of Magnetation in the second half of the year for this to become much less of an issue.
Imagine if we had had the 3 million tons or 50% of our needs that geographical diversification if you will for Magnetation this year would be a wonderful thing.
So one more good reason for that to be coming on so soon.
And just one last quick one.
So I mean I kind of thought about I don’t the answer here and maybe you can help out.
In electric vehicles I assume we are using electrical steels and make some of those motors and I was just wondering if that’s significant amount of tonnage and whether that’s non-grain oriented or grain oriented steels that go into those motors?  Yes it has not been to really a sweet spot for our company but we continue to talk to all of our automotive friends and customers about opportunities that might be there in the marketplace for us.
Again when it comes to automotive we think we are one of the premier auto body exposed as well as the autochrome business.
The motor land business so in fact something that as electric vehicles and particularly the light weighting which isn’t just going to happen with respect to steel its going to be the power train as well as that takes on increase significance.
So we’ll stay close to that opportunity.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Your line is now opened.
Research Division</strong>  Yes hello good morning.
Good morning Tim.
Good morning.
Research Division</strong> Just to go back to Brett’s question.
Fully appreciating that you have some flexibility in your contacts.
Trying to understand into the second quarter how much you might have expose to the spot market given you are probably playing some catch-up with orders in Q1 and with Ashland having been down.
I think so the first quarter Timna maybe just to reflect back we were probably knocking on the door of 80% of a contract 20% spot that probably improves to something like 75% 25%.
So there is bit more there but I would say candidly virtually all of our coated and cold-rolled product is spoken for.
We have a bit flat-rolled product that’s really the product that we’ve been raising prices on for that reason.
And we’re still in a little bit of catch-up mode just because of some operational issues.
So there isn’t dramatic opportunity there is some and its really more than it was in the first quarter but not as much as we would like I think we will see more as we get into the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay fantastic.
The other two questions I had actually were regarding insurance recoveries since you didn’t mention it is that an issue? And then if you could talk a little bit more about the stainless market.
Appreciating you are not in the nickel purchasing sides of things necessarily as much but that markets seems to strengthened I’m wondering how it helped you out and if you could give some detail there? Thanks.
Roger will comment on insurance and then I’ll end.
Yes.
On our planned outage related to 2014 there's nothing related to insurance recoveries.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
We’re actually thankful about that when you have are recovery that says it was the really bad thing but it was certainly bad enough as we said.
Stainless is improving Timna as you have noted.
Our focus tends to be mostly on the 400 series marketplace as well as what we’ll call sort of this specialty products.
For example specialty products that we make out our Coshocton mill which are benefiting from improved automotive demand appliance demand industrial and construction markets.
We are very tight there and essentially full We are setting records when it comes to shipping the Ferritic grades but to your point I think we have seen a better market the best that we’ve seen in a while with respect to the commodity chrome nickel market demand is up and certainly we see nickel prices rise now going past $18 000 per metric ton we started the year at around $14 000.
So they are up over 30% it’s a better place than its been in a while we’ve raised prices a couple times to reflect that its not a huge market but we’re opportunistic there and we’re being opportunistic than we’ve been in a while.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Your line is now opened.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Hi Charles.
Inc.</strong> Hi I’m hearing that met coal now in the U.S.
was down at the same level as thermal coal.
Putting it close to maybe $80 is that inline with what you are hearing? That maybe a little bit lower than what we’ve heard but I would tell you that its probably $10 or so higher than that in terms of what we’ve been hearing but it’s a darn close.
Inc.</strong> On the automotive side I mean the aluminum guys were talking about major inroads 20 years 30 years ago with forecast of 600 pounds per car things that were fiscally not conceivable but even today with their expansions in heat treating they are not going to have tremendous amount of aluminum available relative to the size of the auto market.
The big question is if you capture or retain that market you will be actually shipping maybe 20% less steel because your steel is going to be that much lighter how are you going to make up for that loss tonnage? Well Chuck of course these are great question and are sort of all based on the hypotheses that it will all move in that direction.
As I said before we are really part of the solution part of that is the continued growth of the marketplace.
We continue to see very great opportunities for growth you have just seen for example BMW and Spartanburg increased their capacity or announced it by 50%.
You see others coming to America to build the America is really the place to make vehicles and as at that growth continues we’ll be there.
So I think that would be sort of one response.
The other thing is we are again completely sold on all of the aluminum buzz I want to just sort of point out one keys in point.
Ron Krupitzer who works with the AISI and is actually is a part of SMDI the Steel Market Development Institute which I happened to chair this year.
And it just come out with an interesting piece and here is just a point that I would like to reference.
Last year the auto steel partnership which includes major producers like Chrysler Ford and GM studied a best-in-class forged aluminum front lower control arm discovered that the same light weight performance could be achieved with advanced high strength steels at 34% lower cost than clamshell design.
At least one OEM has already converted several platforms back to steel for this part and not added any weight to the vehicle but certainly benefited from the cost production.
That’s the kind of thing that we’re seeing we expect to see more of it but I think that our position when you are a leader in quality and historically a leader in delivering customer service will continue to position us extraordinarily well for the anticipated growth and a continued mix shifts within automotive Chuck.
Inc.</strong> And finally get back to the point assuming that you do prevail that you still will have to have a lighter weight vehicle which means less steel per vehicle.
Yes some of it is weighted vehicle some of it is the continued growth as you see the SUV market the truck market which tends to be more steel intensive they are growing leaps and bounces over passenger cars.
I think it will be a mixed shift within the utilization as well.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Katz with JP Morgan.
Your line is now opened.
Research Division</strong> Good morning.
You guys had originally stated that you expected that AK Coal to provide annual savings of $30 million when low-vol met coal prices were about a $120 per ton.
And we understand as you said at the beginning of the call and as you said in previous calls that you have made the decision not to fully ramp up the AK Coal mines given current prices but could you clarify how much you are producing – how much you produced AK Coal in the first quarter on a tonnage basis and then how much that would equate to on an annual savings at that $120 per ton low-vol price.
Aren’t you entering sure.
Yes.
What I would comment on there is as we indicated previously we are continuing to ramp up we are just running out of the North Fork mine as we – as you are correctly noting we did delay any other mines opening up because of the market price of coal that we just earlier discussed but in total we expect – we don’t really go quarter-to-quarter because it really looking at a total for the year but we expect right now our mining operations to provide – our AK Coal operations to provide to AK Steel roughly 0.5 million tons or so clean coal this year.
So that gives you an idea pretty much straight evenly throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And $120 per ton low-vol price what would that equate to on an annualized range.
For the… Research Division</strong> For the $0.5 million tons.
Well the way we gave guidance on coal and coke is we said its late earlier this year that coal and coke will be down about $70 million year-over-year that’s a combination of what we’re buying and how we’re using the coal from AK Coal and also the benefits we do buy some of our coke in the market not lot of it but a little bit of it but all the coke we buy has a coal pass [ph].
So at $70 million slightly a few million dollars lower just because we are not consuming quite as much coal and coke this year because of our unplanned outage we had at Ashland earlier this year but that’s still in the order magnitude of what we would expect year-on-year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Good morning Luke.
First question just to touch back on some of the issues on iron ore and the outages.
Trying to get a sense of how we should model your shipments going forward.
Can you give some sense of what the utilization rates are at the blast furnaces I know you are running them on a reduced level.
I guess I want to just understand what the total impact is going to be over next few quarters of these items in aggregated?  I would just say that we probably took a hit in the range of 100 000 tons to 150 000 tons in the first quarter with the outages.
Obviously we don't have that all other things being equal.
You would be adding that back on but again much will depend on iron ore deliveries.
We are not providing guidance today the blast furnaces with the maintenance jobs that we’ve done are fully capable at this moment of running full out and we want to challenge them to do that.
The market is there for them to do that.
So the opportunity is there.
In our heyday we would ship a 1600 000 million tons quarter.
If we can get the iron ore and get to kind of production that we believe we can get that’s a possibility but again a lot of it also depends on the continued growth in the automotive sector because we can't ship every ton we have to be mindful of the fact that we have to keep tons in the pipeline to serve our contract customers.
They look at that we look at that we want to make sure it’s sort of just right not too little or not too much.
So all of those factors go into our look at this but in terms of how we are running on how we can run I have no issues or concerns with respect to that it's just balancing all the needs of all of our customers.
Research Division</strong> But based on the iron ore availability that you see today where are you running the furnaces at the moment?  We’re running probably something like 80% to 85% of capacity in that sort of range.
Research Division</strong>  Okay.
And when we mentioned earlier about how long we think of recovering and getting the iron ore.
What Jim was talking about that would go late into the year that’s getting all the inventory levels back its just getting all the ore moved on the lakes where as everyone is trying to get ore.
So that there is a shortage of a ore that's not what we are insinuating it was more… Research Division</strong> Yes.
Good will and take drive long to get the inventories back up because there is a limited supply of vessels on the lake and it's going to take some time to work through that pipeline.
We are going to run and run w ell make more better faster but it will be a little bit more hand to mouth than it's been in recent years.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is now opened.
Research Division</strong>  Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Hey Phil.
Research Division</strong> Jim I had a question on the grain oriented business and just what you are seeing maybe relative to the fourth quarter and then also on the pricing front both domestically and internationally? Again just a couple of thoughts here or let me give you a couple.
The NAFTA market in particular Phil is showing signs of growth and that’s a good thing.
We did ship quite a bit more than we anticipated we’re trying to figure it out how much of that was really related to the weather but we think it's also sort of bouncing off of bottom has housing and other markets recover.
So we are encouraged by that.
As you know we do have electrical steel trade cases that are still pending and we are pleased with the progress on these cases.
There is a lot more still to come out with respect to GOES and not only electrical steel.
The international market continues to be a sluggish but again I think there we’re pass the bottom as well there is a slow rebound underway we are really are not yet at a level that makes great sense economically for us to participate in a meaningful way.
Just a couple of good news items on the horizon some bright spots the European efficiency standards will kick in this summer.
We think that will serve as well.
And the U.S.
department of energy standards kick-in in 2016.
I think that should play to our strengths and whether its carbon still stainless steel or electrical steel Phil really our focus is on continued innovation.
Trying to leapfrog a number of our competitors to provide products that really bring enormous value to the marketplace and in particular in electrical steel marketplace where efficiency is something that our customers value and will pay for.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Murphy of UBS.
Your line is now opened.
Inc.</strong> Hi just on the gas and power costs in Q1? You referred to $30 million year-over-year.
I’m just wondering what you were seeing for Q2 if gas prices stay where they are at.
I mean right now they are up 7% year-over-year.
Is there a fairly direct read through on the gas portion of your costs or where is your hedging? And when were those hedges put in?  Yes.
You are exactly right.
If you look out what's been happening out on the marketplace and see what's happened on NYMEX where natural gas has been going that’s what we would be seeing also.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
That’s easy thanks.
Yes Matt.
Just to maybe to expand for a moment it was this volatility this spiking that really kicked our rear ends in the first quarter.
We would see gas go from $4.50 or $5 bucks head up to $6.50 we would see electricity $50 and megawatt go to $300 a megawatt obviously we’re through that we don’t expect anything of that sort but I would say that things are a bit higher than what we thought and we’ll do what we can to manage our way through that but the volatility the level of change should not be anywhere near what it was from Q4 to Q1.
Cross our fingers.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now opened.
Yes hi Jim.
How are you? Aldo great to hear you.
Yes same here.
By the way congratulation by the way on moving ahead with those unplanned or accelerated spending that you did in the quarter I know that took a lot of courage considering all the other troubles you were having.
I suspect you are the only one that congratulates on that but we thank you for it.
we think it was a prudent thing to do as your point yes.
There have to be something to congratulate you for.
Yes thanks.
But I wanted to ask a question about product mix the way you look at the second quarter I would normally expect to get back to a little more normal as you come out of the outages and stuff but given the fact that there is some supply now should we be expecting the mix of value added to remain quite high in the second quarter like it was in the first? It should.
Again as I indicated on a prior question we’ll have a bit more in the spot and historically that tends to be a bit more comparable and so fort so you could see that shift somewhat but value added as you know although the over the years has really been our sweet spot its what we do well.
When you get into a lot of the non value adds trades on one basis only and that’s a price – I think Warren Buffett has said and I said this before on price what you pay value is what you get.
We sell value at AK Steel in really all of our product lines we’ll continue to target the high-end.
I think you may see a small movement there but it wont be a big difference from Q1.
Great and then just to shift gears a second.
On the Magnetation startup coming up can you explain a little bit how those – any startup costs might hit you on your income statement are they potentially capitalized items and where we see a lot of change in the run rate of the cost is that Magnetation as we go forward? Want to comment on startup Roger on that strategy.
No I mean I don’t see a major impact I mean when we look out to see what the costs are going to do they will be handling it appropriately at Magnetation on their books of what needs to be capitalized not capitalized through their startup.
So as with any startup you see a little bit higher cost when you start up because you are not running at full levels and then you are trying to position into a fully operating – full operating way which brings your cost down so.
Just again to remind everybody at an IODEX price of $120 a metric ton I think it’s a little bit below that this morning we would expect an annual benefit of about $90 million on a run rate basis.
So we’re very excited about this we’re actually talking internally about holding an investor day at their location we need to have some more dialogue and of course the facility needs to come up and get running which we expect it will.
We are hopeful even though we say late third early fourth that with a bit of luck and a few things to go our way that that might be a sooner rather than later but we are very excited and really delighted about the investment feel better about it than ever.
Thank you and our final question comes from Sam Dubinsky of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
Just a few quick ones.
So obviously there has been a heavy past 12 months of blast furnace maintenance expense with all the outage and whatnot and maybe some of those expenses wont repeat going forward but can you potentially give us a normalized expense figure and how should we think about annual blast furnace expenses or maintenance expenses and then I have a follow-up.
Sam I would just offer a couple of things.
Again at our blast furnace cost Roger put the numbers together at $45 million or so almost $50 million bucks in the first quarter.
That’s extraordinary for us highly unusual but they are behind us and we should fair very well going forward again knock wood.
In a typical year in our campaigns we are in our – first of all I just if anyone who thinks that we are not maintaining or focused on our blast furnace the fact is we are into our blast furnaces more often then anyone in the world we have more thermocouples and sensors than anyone.
We are monitoring things we spend an enormous amount of money on maintenance which is really key to the way that we operate.
And we think it’s the right way and its severed us well again for decades.
Its roughly a $1 million a day or so and then of course there is other things that you might do.
So in any given outage you could run anywhere from $10 million to $15 million perhaps a little bit higher million dollars and those should happen essentially on a annual basis one place one another it could be every 18 months or so depending on the condition of the furnaces which again we monitor closely.
So that’s sort of the ongoing run rate if one were to try a model what we’re talking about.
I would just back to the present we have no significant outages of any sort planned for the second quarter or for the second half of this year we are really through all of that and again we’ll continue to monitor things and do what we need to do as we see the issues or concerns but we don’t have any intentions or plans of talking any major outages or spending any major money.
Other than the ongoing money that we spend which is hundreds of million of dollars a year at all of our plants for maintenance.
Okay and then on the electrical steel trade case could you just gives an update on where the next milestones and where the key issues that are being addressed at this point and then I have one last follow-up.
Yes again on that whole front just as a recall we can compete with anybody on any given day given the level of playing field but we cannot effectively compete nor should we have to with unfairly low priced imports and competing against foreign governments and that’s exactly what we’re doing today.
And when it comes to China in particular we had to resort to filing trade case as relative to electrical steel products we simply couldn’t standby and watch America our great country become the dumping ground for these product.
As I mentioned before we’re pleased with the progress duties to address subsidies have been implemented the next milestone is the determination of the duties themselves and that should occur later here in the second quarter.
And those preliminary duties are expected to remain in effect until the final determinations are issued which will likely be in the fall of this year.
So that’s where things stand really at this point Sam.
Okay so when we do announce that takes effect immediately for the importer of record.
Correct.
Okay and then my last question is just on import competition.
Obviously spreads are high versus international and we’re actually seeing imports hit the market in pretty significant amounts.
I mean how do you think this plays out? Do think this cycle can be different or do you think U.S.
pricing has to normalize and international either U.S.
goes down or international goes up.
What are your quick thoughts on that?  Imports and we’re keeping an eye on them a close to eye on them as a matter of fact.
I would tell you though that as you and others know imports have historically been a part of our market and I suspect that they will continue to be until everything we need to consume here is made here but the key is that they are fairly traded and as you’ve seen when we need to we’re not opposed to filing trade cases we have no announcement today but we’re monitoring that closely.
The spreads so it may have written about as much as $150 a ton we think that this is not the fact.
We think it’s may be $100 or less.
And that if you really think about whether or not that's appropriate for one to take that risk once you factor in the time lag and the freight cost we are not sure the spread is really especially meaningful.
And the spread could certainly decrease in a number of ways including international price is increasing as their markets for recover.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Once again thank you thanks to all of you for joining us on today’s conference call and for your continuing interest in AK Steel just say that success is not always measured by how high you climb.
We certainly know that from our first quarter but rather its measured by how far you bounce back and with that in mind at AK Steel we look for a much improved second quarter of 2014.
We intend to bounce back in a big way.
So behalf of all of us at the company we wish you a great day a better tomorrow and an outstanding second quarter.
Bye for now.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel’s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim’s remarks Roger Newport will review our second quarter financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to the future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity or any comments that may be made regarding our pending acquisition of Severstal Dearborn.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results are contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events to the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the Company’s website at aksteel.com.
With that here’s Jim for his comments.
Jim?  Thank you Doug.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for being a part of today’s conference call.
I’m very pleased to report that AK Steel’s second quarter of 2014 showed marked improvement in just about every area compared to our first quarter results.
We were well-positioned for a much improved second quarter of 2014 and deliver a much improved second quarter is exactly what we did.
While our second quarter was not without its challenges for sure our performance proved to be significantly better than the first quarter in terms of shipments revenues and production among a host of other items and each of those factors contributed to improve margins on a much better bottom line.
Excluding the negative mark-to-market impact on certain hedges that were out of the money at the end of second quarter AKS Steel generated adjusted net income for the second quarter.
On an adjusted basis we earned a profit of $0.02 per share in 2Q compared to a loss of $0.40 per share in 1Q.
That is terrific progress.
But our future looks even brighter with our recently announced acquisition of Severstal Dearborn.
Let me take a few minutes to follow-up on last week’s historic announcement of this transformative deal for AK Steel.
On July 21 we announced the acquisition of Severstal North America’s Dearborn plant located in Dearborn Michigan.
I’d take just a few moments this morning to first reiterate a couple of key points from last week’s conference call but more importantly offer some additional details provide more insight into our thinking on this deal.
AK Steel’s acquisition of Dearborn will provide us with increased scale and enhanced operating flexibility.
The acquisition will also allow us to better serve our customers.
And serving customers better than any other steelmaker is what we’re all about at AK Steel.
It’s expected to generate cost-based synergies of about $50 million per year of which approximately $25 million are expected to be realized in the first full year after closing the deal.
The synergies come from making more better and safer opportunities for meaningful productivity improvements quality enhancements purchasing and transportation savings have all been identified and we’re eager to get to work to realize these synergies.
Finally the transaction will be accretive.
We expect it to improve our earnings and cash flow be credit enhancing and enhance shareholder value.
The price we’re paying is $700 million in cash.
That price is roughly $1 billion less than the original purchase price and subsequent investments to upgrade the facility.
And at least in my opinion it’s at least $5 billion less than replacement cost.
Let me add that the $700 million purchase price includes $300 million of working capital.
Upon closing the deal if working capital is lower than $300 million the price paid for the asset will be reduced accordingly.
Now let me offer a comment on depreciation when we apply purchase accounting to this transaction.
We expect the fixed assets to go on our books and a value of between $400 million to $500 million.
This is between $900 million to $1 billion below the caring value currently on service tools books.
As a result we expect depreciation expense to be much lower for AK Steel than was the case for several stalls.
Upon completion of the acquisition we estimate that annual depreciation and amortization expense will be in a range of $30 million to $40 million.
As I mentioned we expect higher earnings resulting from this acquisition since AK Steel has substantial net operating loss carry forwards.
We do not expect to pay income taxes on these additional earnings for the foreseeable future.
So it’s important to keep this in mind when forecasting future cash taxes and cash flow.
Over the years AK Steel has generated NOLs of about $1.8 billion with a b dollars.
The Severstal acquisition will allow us to more quickly utilize our net operating loss carry forwards or NOLs offset taxable income.
In other words this is another benefit of the Debron acquisition.
In terms of both taxes except for changes in our LIFO reserve AK Steel currently does not report any tax expense or any tax benefit.
After the Dearborn acquisition we expect to continue this practice.
Now let me shift focus to how and when we intend to finance the transaction.
Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino act we’re required to provide certain information to the department of justice to obtain antitrust clearance for the transactions.
We’re currently preparing that information expect to submit to the DoJ within the current or next week.
We expect the initial regulatory reviewed to be completed within 30 days after our HSR filing.
We’ll be clear to proceed at that point unless we received their request.
Upon completion of this review we intent to move forward immediately with capital market transactions to finance the acquisition.
Once again to be clear we did not currently intend to come to the markets to finance the transaction until we successfully complete the HSR review process.
In financing the acquisition of the Dearborn we expect to issue a prudent combination of debt and equity securities.
We cannot say at this time with certainly what the final financial structure will be because of variety of factors including our consideration of the capital market conditions at the time of the offerings but here is our current thinking on this subject.
We currently expect to finance this transaction including the associated fees and expenses with approximately 60% debt securities and about 40% equity securities.
We believe this type of financing structure will result a transaction that is both accretive to our earnings per share and credit-enhancing using traditional credit metrics.
As we indicated on last week’s conference call we expect double-digit percentage accretion.
And that statement is based on comparing our outlook to the current 2015 consensus earnings estimates for AK Steel.
Subject to the conclusion of the regulatory review process we expect to close this transaction late in the third quarter or sometime in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In summary AK Steel’s acquisition of Severstal Dearborn will make us a better company.
It will further strengthen our position as a premier North American steel manufacturer and complement our existing carbon steel operations.
It’s a business we know well and we believe we’re buying it at a good price.
Hence it’s an attractive investment opportunity for AK Steel.
Now I’d like to take a moment to highlight some standout performances in those areas that we hold near and dear at our Company our core values if you will of safety quality and productivity.
Safety remains our Company’s highest priority and we do our best to live it every day.
During the second quarter AK Steel’s Coshocton Works was recognized by the Ohio Bureau of Workers’ Compensation Division of Safety and Hygiene for working nearly 2 million man-hours without a lost-time injury.
That is an amazing accomplishment.
Congratulations to them.
And AK Tube’s Columbus Indiana and Walbridge Ohio plants each received the Safety Award of Merit from the Fabricators and Manufacturers Association for great safety performance relative to their peers again job well done.
On the quality front we performed well internally that is in terms of both internal rejects and retreated products.
Once again we generated only about 2% of secondary or non-prime products a fine job by our operators.
But our customers are really the best judges of our performance when it comes to quality.
And according to Jacobson customer surveys we continue to be rated number one in quality in both carbon and specialty steel markets which is just terrific.
Productivity-wise I’m delighted to report that our blast furnaces ran much better in Q2 than in Q1.
That said we continue to experience operational issues at our Ashland Works blast furnace some of which are continuing and we’re assessing the possible need and timing for a larger maintenance job at that furnace.
I’m delighted to report though that Middletown’s blast furnace is running exceptionally well and speaking of Middletown during the second quarter we reached a new 42 month labor agreement at our Middletown Works with Local 1943 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers so prior Middletown contract was set to expire on September 15 2014 and we’re pleased that we reached a neutrally beneficial agreement with the Machinists well in advance of the scheduled expiration day.
And my remaining prepared remarks I would like to focus my comments on three subjects in particular.
First raw materials including Magnetation’s near-term startup of plant.
Secondly automotive markets it’s strengthen our progress in terms of light weighting.
And third the electrical steel market and particular its recovery.
Then following Roger’s recap of our financial performance we will be happy to take your questions.
In recent years lowering cost and improving our raw materials and energy self sufficiency have been key strategic initiatives for AK Steel suffice it to stay that these initiatives are coming to life.
Given the fact that we are currently buying 100% of our iron ore pallets in the open market the steep decline and iron prices will lower our third quarter still making input costs and enhance our margins in a meaningful way.
We are also tremendously excited about the imminent startup of Magnetation’s pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana.
Since we announced our joint venture with Magnetation Inc.
in October of 2011 we’ve been looking forward to this important milestone.
Magnetation is in the final stages of construction of its new state-of-the-art iron ore pellet plant again that is in Reynolds Indiana.
Also Magnetation is more than a year ahead of its original schedule and is now expected to begin operating either in August or September of this year.
That’s a credit to Larry Lehtinen and his entire team at Magnetation.
Soon Magnetation will be producing its first iron ore pellets and begin to provide what will become a steady diet of pellets to feed AK Steel’s blast furnaces located Middletown Ohio and Ashland Kentucky.
Our current 6 million tons of annual pellet needs for our Middletown and Ashland blast furnaces we’ll look to Magnetation to provide at least 3 million tons or about 50% of our current requirements with the remaining 50% of our needs are supplied by ECLIPSE and others.
The pellet plant is expected to ramp up production and began delivery of pellets this fall in 2015 we expect the Magnetation will be at a full production run rate of about 3 million tons of pellets annually.
Now let we switch gears and comment on a strong and growing automotive market.
I’ll just say that the automotive market is very strong especially for AK Steel.
The light vehicle build rate has increased by about 5% from 2013 to 2014.
However AK Steel’s growth rate has been more than double that amount.
From the depths of the great recession more than five years ago this year’s auto builds are expected to reach or exceed some 17 million units and continue to grow steadily in the years ahead.
Light vehicle sales continue to exceed expectations and for the month of June achieved a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of approximately 17 million units the highest level since July of 2006.
For AK Steel second quarter shipments to automotive customers represented the highest auto shipment quarter in seven years since the second quarter of 2007 to be exact.
Increasingly automakers are coming to North America or expanding their production capabilities here.
And that’s really great news for AK Steel for all the American manufacturers and it’s great news for the United States as well as Canada and Mexico.
We continue to talk and mostly listen to our automotive customers on the subject of light weighting a topic that has gained a lot of press this year with aluminum’s penetration on particular platform.
As automakers continue to search for new ways to enhance fuel efficiency I strongly believe that Steel is and will remain the material of choice.
As a company and as an industry through our trade association The American Iron and Steel Institute we’ve been interested in light weighting for many many years.
And AK Steel is ready to complete the win and this latest and this very serious challenge to keeping its steel.
We already offer highly innovative and competitive solutions.
For example AK Steel currently produces advanced high-strength steel products including our dual phase and both bare and aluminum-coated pressed hardened steels that make vehicles stronger and lighter.
In addition to producing carbon steel products needed to meet CAFE Standards our stainless and electrical steel products are also up to the task.
So if you’re a steel buyer user or consumer of steel products here are three things to keep in mind.
First if cost matters to you then steel is the material of choice for you.
Steel is less expensive than aluminum.
Using steel results in a less expensive vehicle to producers and as we know the consumers who will also pay lower insurance rates and repair costs with vehicles made from steel.
And steel allows automakers to lightweight their vehicles without retooling their plants and spending billions of dollars to do so.
Second consumers of these steel are the safest choice thus giving steel an advantage over aluminum.
Consumers know and they trust steel and indeed steel is one of the strongest materials in the world.
And third against the environment matters to you then steel is the right choice for you over the course of a vehicle’s life cycle.
Steel produces fewer ignitions than aluminum.
Steel is also the single most re-cycle product in the world it’s 100% recyclable.
In the year 2012 steel achieved a re-cycling rate of 88%.
This compares to aluminum’s re-cycling rate of only 67% for 2012 in fact more steel is re-cycled every year than paper plastic glass and aluminum combined.
My final thought on this subject is that sometimes no news is good news.
And what I mean by that is that our customers rarely announce that they keep a vehicle in steel but that is exactly what is happening almost everywhere you look.
At the time when the perception is that we’re losing business to aluminum we’re actually growing our automotive position at AK Steel in fact at AK Steel we provide a full complement of sheet steels that are used by our automotive customers to achieve their energy efficiency and light weighting objectives.
On the carbon steel front we’re developing third-generation advanced high-strength steels that are significantly stronger and that demonstrate incredible formability when compared to current product offerings.
Let me emphasize one thing the products that we are developing at AK Steel are not simply extensions of existing products that are being touted as next-generation.
I fully expect there our research efforts at our company will deliver true third generation advanced high-strength steels that can be produced with minimal or perhaps even no capital investment.
Our stainless steels have been developed to be used in highest temperature exhaust systems for the engines that are being developed to meet ever increasing efficiency standards.
These steels provide improved corrosion resistance and the strength needed in order allow our customers to produce exhaust systems that will enable new light weighting application stand.
Finally our electrical steels are used for high-efficiency motors needed for the growing electrical and hybrid vehicle market segment.
AK Steel happens to be the only steel producer in the United States offering a full range of carbon and specialty flat-roll steel products needed by our customers to achieve light weighting.
We offer these products today and will offer the products of the future to serve our automotive and other customers as well.
That is what real innovation is all about.
And finally let me take a couple of minutes to provide you an idea what we’re seeing in terms of the recovery in the electrical steel market.
After a multi-year decline the tide thankfully is beginning to turn.
As evidence our second quarter grain-oriented logical steel shipments were more than 10% higher than the first quarter for naphtha and for export shipments.
Several things are causing the ship beginning with inventory levels unlike 2013 customer inventories are in line commercial construction is recovering and importantly housing starts are expected to exceed 1 million units in 2014 which would be the first time it’s done so where the level of housing starts has occurred since the year 2007.
With the very harsh winter weather conditions behind them naphtha customers are more bullish now than they have been in quite some time in addition they are preparing for a seasonal weather related growth.
So the improved domestic picture appears to be one that is demand driven and that’s very encouraging.
Similarly after a long drought we’re finally seeing some optimism regarding electric steel in Europe.
The economy of Europe continues to recover and the new energy efficiency standards have become effective in 2015 and 2016 also appear to be having a positive effect.
Once again while all of this is a positive for AK Steel I would add that there remains significant excess global capacity for electrical steel.
When the playing field is level we are capable of competing effectively on a global basis and with that in mind we have applaud the final ruling that the U.S.
Department of Commerce issued earlier this week against three countries we identified in our freight case forgoes products.
These rulings upheld the preliminary antidumping margins on goes in force into the United States.
And as the facts are examined we remain confident that a favorable ruling will ensue in late September against the remaining four countries involved in this trade case.
To be clear we are not seeking exclusion or special treatment we are simply seeking fair trade on electrical steel or for that matter on any flat-rolled steel products that is imported into the United States of America.
Before turning the call over to Roger to cover our results and outlook let me say that I believe AK Steel is well positioned for a much improved second half of 2014.
the first half of this year with all of its weather related challenges operating stability issues and mark-to-market hedges frankly played havoc with our financial results for a variety of reasons including lower cost raw materials further gains on the auto market and a continuing electrical steel recovery as well as the acquisition of Severstal Dearborn we are very excited about the future of AK Steel.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
And now to recap of our second quarter results here is our Senior VP of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger.
Thank you Jim.
Earlier today we were pleased to report adjusted net income of $2.9 million for a profit of $0.02 per diluted share.
For the second part which exceeded our guidance of an adjusted net loss ranging from $0.02 to $0.06 per share.
Our adjusted second quarter results exclude the mark-to-market charge of $20 million or $0.15 per share related primarily to derivatives used to hedge the cost of iron ore that were out of the money at end of second quarter.
We are adjusting our results to exclude those mark-to-market hedges because we believe that provides a more consistent and accurate quarter-to-quarter comparison of our financial performance.
Charges for mark-to-market hedges are largely a matter of timing.
In this instance the cost impact of our second quarter charges for mark-to-market hedges will be mostly offset in the second half of 2014.
The offset will occur either in the form of a lower purchase for the related steel making inputs or by an offsetting gain should the mark-to-market loss on derivatives reverse before settlement.
Our adjusted net income for the second quarter 2014 represents a significant improvement over our first quarter results.
In fact our results were $57 million or $0.42 per share better than our adjusted net loss for the first quarter of 2014.
In addition to the previously discussed mark-to-market charge our second quarter financial results were also negatively impacted by the lingering effect of the severe winter weather we experienced which reduced our iron ore deliveries slowed our blast furnace production and caused an increase in our transportation costs.
The weather related cost impact in our second quarter results totaled approximately $15 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
Our planned outage expenses for the second quarter were $2.5 million a reduction of nearly $27 million when compared to the first quarter.
Second quarter shipments of 1 397 500 tons represent an increase of 135 000 tons or about 11% compared to the first quarter.
And I might add that our shipments for the second quarter were slightly better than our guidance.
The increase in shipments for the second quarter was primarily due to the recovery from the unplanned outage at the Ashland Works blast furnace in the first quarter.
This improvement was partially offset by the impact to our operations due to the extreme winter weather conditions.
Our average selling price for the second quarter was $1 095 per ton virtually identical to our average selling price for the first quarter and in line with our guidance.
Sales for the second quarter totaled $1 531 million about $147 million or 11% higher than the first quarter.
Improved selling prices in the second quarter for many of the company’s products were offset by less value-added mix of products as more shipments during the second quarter were made to the carbon steel spot market.
Our second quarter results included a LIFO credit of $3.3 million compared to a LIFO credit of $1.5 million for the first quarter of 2014.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest that are included in our operating results.
As a reminder our non-controlling interest consist primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the non-controlling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2014 was $64.5 million or $46 per ton.
This represents an improvement of $67.3 million or $48 per ton compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Moving to our results for the first six months of 2014 revenues for the first half were more than $2.9 billion an increase of approximately $140 million or 5% compared to the first half of 2013.
Shipments for the first six months of 2014 were 2 659 600 tons roughly 2% increase compared to the first six months of 2013.
And we are pleased to have achieved higher automotive market shipments during the first half of 2014 as compared to the same period in 2013.
Our average selling price for the first half of 2014 was $1 096 per ton an increase of $35 per ton or roughly 3% compared to the first half of last year.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred approximately $50 million in planned and unplanned major maintenance outage calls during the first half of 2014 compared to $29 million in the first six months of 2013.
The extreme winter weather conditions resulted in higher cost of approximately $45 million in the first six months of 2014 for items such as electricity natural gas transportation and operating costs compared to the same period in 2013.
At the bottom line for the first six months of 2014 we reported a net loss of $103.2 million compared to a net loss of $50.3 million in the first half of 2013.
Also included in our first half 2014 results we are $23.4 million in mark-to-market charges on hedging derivatives which I discussed previously as well as a $5.8 million charge related to a legal settlement.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow for the second quarter of 2014 our capital investments totaled $13.5 million represents the same amount as we invested in the first quarter of 2014.
On a strategic front in the second quarter we invested the $45 million in our iron ore joint venture with Magnetation sounds good.
As expected working capital consumed $148 million of cash during the second quarter partially reflecting the normal seasonal fluctuation in inventories as well as the normal quarterly fluctuations related to interest payments.
In addition we ended the quarter with strong sales which increased our receivables at the end of the second quarter.
Our working capital usage in the first half of 2014 of $162 million was slightly better than our recent historical average.
We continue to be focused on working capital needs of our business and we expect just as we have got historically to achieve a significant reduction in working capitals as we move through the remainder of 2014 primarily in the fourth quarter.
In the second quarter we also made a $71 million contribution to our pension fund.
Looking ahead fundamental change is on the way in terms of our future pension contributions.
We expect our pension contributions to decrease by about one-half to approximately $100 million of 2015 and by one-half again to approximately $15 million in 2016.
On the liquidity front we ended the second quarter of 2014 with solid liquidity of $539 million.
Accordingly we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations and our operations as well as execute our strategic initiatives.
As we look forward to the closing of the acquisition of Severstal Dearborn we anticipate incorporating Dearborn’s inventory receivables into the collateral base for our revolving credit facility.
While we remain intently focused on managing our working capital needs we do expect to increase the size of our revolving credit facility in conjunction with the acquisition which will further enhance our liquidity position.
Further as we anticipate regulatory approval and accessing the capital markets for permanent financing of the Dearborn acquisition it is important to remember that we already have in place committed bridge financing.
Now turn its our outlook as is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the third quarter of 2014 in September.
While we are not providing financial guidance at this time as mentioned we expect our results in the third quarter of 2014 to be much better than the second quarter.
Among the reasons for this improvement is that we expect to benefit in a meaningful way from declining iron ore cost.
Let me conclude my prepared comments by saying thank you for interest in AK Steel.
And at this time we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
(Operator Instructions) One moment please for our first question.
Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Evan.
It was interesting you bought up the electrical steel use in hybrids.
I was wondering if you could maybe delve in a little bit more detail and give us a size of that market where it is today where you think it could go maybe over the next decade or so?  I don’t know that we’d be the experts in being able to give you the facts and figures or except to say that I think we all realize it’s a growing market.
We’re working closely with all of our automotive customers make sure they know what we can do for them.
And I’d tell you that there is an awful lot of interest.
Are you actively selling actually what’s non-oriented product to the auto today? Yes indeed.
Great.
And then one other question just on mix.
I was a little surprised to see that you had a slight offset from higher spot carbon sales in the quarter just given that you had some operational issues.
How should we think about that in the second half? Is that going to revert more back towards the first quarter mix?  I would say the first quarter we were impacted from the outages and then we had the cold weather in the second quarter.
So here in the third and fourth quarters we don’t see a material swing market conditions will drive how much we put into the stock market more than anything.
Okay.
And then maybe just one on stainless.
Nickel seem to flatten out here a little bit and I’m just wondering if that’s impacted your order books at all going forward? I think what stainless for us – our primary focus is on the 400 series the autochrome business.
That’s been remarkably strong and we expect it to continue to remain that way.
We’ve also great strength with the kind of products we produce out of the Coshocton Works to meet certain special needs there.
But commodity chrome nickel market again is not a big one for AK Steel but we’ve been opportunistic and we’ll continue to be I think that the upward move with respect to nickel prices and then sort of holding there has been favorable to us and we will continue to take advantage of that as it makes sense.
Great.
I’ll hand it over.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nathan Littlewood of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Good morning and thanks guys.
Just had a couple of questions on iron ore first of all.
Could you tell us what your inventories of iron ore were at the beginning and also at the end of the quarter? And how do they compare to what you consider normal levels? Let me just take a stab at that and if Kirk wants to jump in that’s fine.
My sense is that we are still – in fact I know that our company is still well below its normal levels of inventory.
At midway point of the year we suspect that that will rectify itself between now and year end.
So we’ll go into the winter season in good shape again but I think frankly that the entire marketplace is still catching up from the severe winter weather conditions.
Most have underestimated the effect of that in our case will probably cost us something like I don’t know 75 000 tons of production in the quarter simply because we had to travel our glass furnaces back.
I don’t know that I give you specific number need other than to say we are in better shape today we’re not down to single days we’re in two weeks.
In terms of our own inventories I suspect that that’s similar for most because there’s only so many cargo ships that can deliver the product and deliver the product and so forth.
So the world is still catching up and we’re in that world.
Okay thank you.
The other one was just on this Magnetation JV.
So I appreciate the uptake there but could you talk a little bit about when and how you expect to actually see the cash savings or cash returns for that? I mean assume initially you will be paying some sort of the great market price with Magnetation.
The earnings and cash will be getting accumulated in Magnetation but it might be some period before it actually start [securely] (ph) paying a dividend back to you and you realizing those cash benefits.
So could you talk about what the cash return profile looks like?  And there is a variety of ways that we benefit obviously our 50% ownership as well as the discounted price that we get and it’s very competitive cost even relative to today’s lower IODEX Index.
And the key benefits that you begin to see in 2015 and beyond just because it’s obviously going to be in bit of a startup mode here for the balance of this year.
I don’t you can give a number in terms of how much we’ll see.
But again going forward on full run rate basis it’ll will be about 300 million tons and even if you assume nay then IODEX price of say $100 a ton that’s probably a $16 million are so benefit to the company.
I don’t know why did you refer [ph].
I kind of comment on that.
This three components of the benefits related to Magnatation one is the discounted the market so basically the volumes that we’re purchasing from them are 49.9% of the earnings which will have some more is just because of their restrictions on their ends.
And the other one is lower transportation cost that we will benefit from.
And those so this [started marking] (ph) a lower transportation cost directly to us and how we’re purchasing a commodity and how we’re transporting it.
Yes one other thing here that would I just emphasize to Roger’s point on the transportation imagine how much better off we would have been this year 2014 how much more we have been able to produce and sell at Magnatation had been up a year ago.
So we’re delighted that we are year ahead of schedule but it can happen fast enough in terms our long term strategy just take us out of really the really the sort of eggs in one basket with the northern facilities.
Hopefully we’ll never another winner like we did first time in 40 years but one never knows and so the geographical diversification the transportation savings are meaningful towards as well.
Absolutely certainly just for background on the project that 49% of earnings the cash return of that.
Is that expect to be a 2015 event as well or could that be a bit later? There could be some.
There’s certain restrictions that they would have under their covenants if they have to live by there could be some but again that I would say when you look at the benefits it’s across the three components that I mentioned early.
Okay great thanks for turning out to someone else.
Thank you (indiscernible).
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning Good morning Timna Thanks for the further detail that was helpful on the deal.
I’m curious about what’s going on with that front.
What’s the problem there .Why is that not fixed? What’s is it running out at? Is that a volume cascades you were both that’s my first question? So we’ve been playing close attention to our blast furnace there.
There’s likely a longer term if not intermediate term maintenance sharp that will need to do.
Over the course of last week we had an event that we typically refer to as a (indiscernible) it’s when excess water gets in the furnace and so we’ve been going through a process of recovering there really should not have any meaningful impact at all over quarter with respect to shipments as we have purchase slabs and also can supplement our own carbon make it Ashland and Middletown with Buffer #5 VAF so no issues there but I think the furnace is talking to us and we are listening intently and we are known for and we’ll continue to pay close attention to what’s happening and put into maintenance and operating practice there.
So that’s what’s going on in terms of the comment in my prepared remarks.
By the time you can offset the volume with other production butler at the minimum but as well as get to something that keep (indiscernible) in terms of elevated thoughts relative to running that’s what you’re saying?  There is a cost impact but again to really quantify that one has to know the extent of repairs the length and so forth.
That was a big deal we probably say more about it now we’re really right in the midst of it in terms of its recovery we’ll have more to say perhaps either in our Q or when we give guidance but again we know blast furnace is pretty well we maintain them and operate them humbly pretty well.
This is just one of those things that you run into with them and we’re working through it.
Okay thank you.
One other question I have is on NOL we just want to make sure we understand if there is any limits to their application on the acquisition sometimes there is some parameters around that.
so just want to little bit more color there please.
Timna short answer there is no.
there is no limitations.
Okay excellent thanks again.
Thank you Timna.
Thank you our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Yes hi Jim how are you?  I’m doing well.
I’m wondering if you could just help us a little bit on the other facilities that you required with Dearborn.
you talked about how the Dearborn plant itself is a scale up and quality and issues like that.
But you also have the Double Eagle Spartan and Coke battery.
Could you talk about what the capital cost may have been for those and whether they are operating profitably at the moment? I’ll start maybe with the coke complex where Kirk will be tomorrow but you wanted this comment and I think that would sure blossom what we got there.
Sure it’s a very nice larger battery there is several smaller batteries that are on highlight with the larger batteries is running pretty well.
Was a large capital investment made several years ago.
And it’s a very nice asset that we intend to run harder to be very profitable there.
Just on that point although I think to produce what they have got there- I don’t know $0.5 billion or so I mean big money obviously and three are sort of an idled the one is going.
It’s not operating full because there has been a need for it the real benefit comes when we burn it full.
And we looked around everything fall out so of course finding solutions for that’s great.
You may have seen recently where through the resolution of the RG Steel bankruptcy Severstal actually paid for the remaining other half but they didn’t have some $30 million or so came out of their pockets not ours.
So we will own 100% of Mountain State it has a significant potential from there then the other facilities as you mentioned Double Eagle where we will be a partner with United States Steel.
We’ve really not had dialog at this point to say what the future of that facility is.
But as you know it burned down it was rebuilt I think a very good facility the question is what can we do there together.
And then as Gartner our good friends at Worthington are great customer and processor that we use we have had dialog and really looked to capitalize further on that tickle.
Any details beyond that by the way just comes a percentage ownerships were 50:50 owner Double Eagle and a 48% owners Sparton steel coating.
Enormous opportunity collectively with all of those things and more.
All I would say but we don’t own the facilities yet we really had just what I would call due diligence initial looks at these things but tremendous outside potential.
Right and then net working capital $300 million of working capital seems kind of a heavy number for our company with 2.5% does that strike you with heavy – $300 million here.
Though future judgment calls it’s part of the deal it’s the reason why I mention it I think when we took a look at historic levels that they have operated under it has been in that ball park.
And it’s a little bit below that with respect to the iron ore issues that they had this winter.
So all that will get trued up when the deal closes.
We would hope although that there’s opportunity in every aspect of the operations for significant efficiency improvements bringing some of the practices and procedures for maintenance and operations that we bring as well as good working capital management.
So hopefully there is more to be had but the deal will simply be adjusted plus/minus to that $300 million level I was making.
Yes very nice trade on that asset Jim by the way.
If I could just ask one more question.
We’re hearing a little bit about the electrical steel market in Asia seeing some price increase.
I think it may be related to some trade action Japan maybe talking against China.
You commented on how the demand seems to be getting better.
Are you seeing any pricing on the electrical steel? I think we’ve seen demand pick up generally which has been the main driver.
I think that the trade case certainly had an impact in terms of sort of sending the tide perhaps of some imported levels and just putting up a floor on things here.
In terms of your specific question I don’t know that I can add a whole lot of color with respect to the Asian market.
As you know we were zoned out of China and remain largely zoned out.
That was a very important opportunity for us.
We are anxiously awaiting the implementation of the plan there so that we can get back in and serve our customers there.
But specific to Japan I cannot comment today.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Your line is now opened.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Good morning  Hi Charles.
Inc.</strong> Hi.
Questions about the JV.
So my understanding is that both of the Double Eagle and the Spartan has slide up first refusal on a change in ownership.
Have you had any indications from your partners on how they’re going to do handle it? Again I think I’d mentioned in the response to all those questions.
I don’t know if you heard that or not that we’ve had good dialogue very encouraging dialogue with respect to Worthington as it relates to the Spartan Steel Coating Facility.
We intend to run that together and to optimize the opportunity there.
There’s no intend on their part to do anything.
We’ve had less conversation in fact no conversation with a partner in Double Eagle at this point.
We’re very interested in saying what that could bring.
So we’ll leave it at that for now Chuck.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Are there any provisions in Cliffs contract that Severstal has about change in ownership? Nothing I’m aware of.
It’s a great method we will step into and we’ll obviously need to have some conversation with Cliffs.
We’ll be a more important customer to them and they’ll be a more important supplier to us.
We have a good relationship with them.
We know today it’s a big day for them.
So we won’t bother them today but we’ll certainly be in touch.
Obviously steel making input cost and quality matter greatly when you’re making steel and again when you’re finishing steel.
So that’s an important discussion that needs to occur.
Again it has not taken place but it will.
Inc.</strong>  The rumor now has it that there will be a change in ownership at least a change in management say tomorrow.
I don’t know but I’d comment on that rumor any more than any other rumor.
We value our relationship with them and we’ll see how that plays out and look forward to our dialogue.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
Good morning.
Hi Sal.
Sorry.
I missed most of the comment.
I want to ask you if you have touched upon.
How you’ve been utilizing the Butler plant in terms of slab for your other systems? And I know with Dearborn acquisition you will be further long on the rolling side.
Would Butler play a role in there you think?  Well Butler has been a magnificent addition really in terms of the investor.
We made the Number 5 EAF.
It’s primarily meant to replace three less efficient sort of 1960’s-vintage EAFs and it’s done that very effectively very cost effectively and quality effectively to make our electrical steels and certain stainless products.
But it also supplements our carbon needs and it’s opportunistic and particular when we have an issue related to a planned or unplanned outage.
It probably has something upwards of 4 000 5 000 tons of carbon capability slab wise for us in addition to meeting all of our other needs.
In terms of exactly how we’re playing to the Dearborn structure and outlook remains to be determined.
One of the things that we look to do when we get our hands on the wheel is to really optimize everything.
And a point I made before that I’d just emphasize again is we have no intention of shutting down anything that we operate today at AK Steel nothing at Butler nothing at Ashland nothing at any of our other facilities.
And the same is true for Dearborn.
We’re looking to take things to the max really get everything out of these facilities that we can get.
And the same is true also for optimization of the people.
It’s really putting together the very best team that would be able to compete effectively and to win on the global steel marketplace.
So that’s that.
Anything more specific with respect to Number 5 or Butler?  No that’s it.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jorge Beristain of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now opened.
Good morning.
My question is just more of a strategic one I guess for Jim.
Just to your earlier comments about how steel will be the natural choice for the auto industry in the future and you guys through technology will have rebuttal products.
I was just wondering if you could comment.
When we talk to the aluminum processors they’re talking about getting the auto OEMs to switch over for a life of platform.
So just wondering.
It seems to be like a one-way substitution win and if they do switch to aluminum.
So I was wondering if you could talk to that point and how long your current durations are for your existing auto steel supply contract.
Historically it’s been steel.
That doesn’t mean it will always be steel but we understand the space pretty well and we know that typically when you get on a platform you stay on that platform.
So I think what you’re hearing is consistent with what we have experienced being steelmakers and suppliers to automotive companies.
I think we’re all going to see together just how successful this network is.
And so for us to make a call on it – we’re not going to do that today.
In fact I just emphasized it.
We have wonderful relationship with all of our automakers.
We want them to be profitable.
We want to be profitable as well and we’ll continue to try and serve their needs.
Could there be some sort of midstream change? Those things do happen from time to time but by and large when a platform is bid out it tends to stay with a particular supplier and a particular material.
But we’re all going to find out together.
And if you could also comment a little bit on profitability.
There’s been some examples that you guys have raised about how parts done in aluminum have gone back to steel.
But could you comment? Is this a kind of thing where the OEMs are expecting sort of flat pricing but just better quality steel higher strength steels? And so I’m just wondering if you could talk a little bit to the potential profitability impact of having to be with aluminum down to a product-by-product level if you’re seeing any cut in the margin when a product is back into steel? I don’t know that we’ve won a whole lot of products back.
So it’s a little early to really sense that.
I would tell you that we continue to bring not just a price to the party but the total value equation.
Again I know that sounds a little fuzzy and furry but the reality is we sell a value proposition here.
We are not the biggest and we don’t show all the commodity products and great volumes.
We’re really focused on the very high.
We love to serve automotive customers give them great product on time great delivery great customer service and over the years that’s started as a very good position.
We take number one position with them.
So obviously we’re watching.
We’re paying very close attention to the larger scenario type of issues and questions but we’re growing at a time as I mentioned before 10% or 11% over the last year and we expect to continue to grow.
We’re taking market share and we think that will continue.
There has certainly been instances where certain pieces and parts certain products have come back to steel because the light weighting and the cost factors enter into all of it.
I would just tell you that aluminum remains a multiple of higher cost than steel.
And so it’s going to be challenging I think from a cost standpoint purely to compete.
And again there are a variety of objectives that OEMs are seeking.
And I would just emphasize that steel and particularly AK Steel we are part of the solution rather than sort of being due as part of the problem and that’s the way we’ll continue to go at this.
Thank you.
Question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
Your line is now opened.
Great thanks.
Jim a question on iron ore and you’ve kind of given us an outlook that the iron ore pressure – your costs were expected to climb.
That makes spot sense.
Would you also provide some sensitivity? I know Cliff so for them every $10 change in the benchmark iron ore price reduces or that changes their real life price by about $1.
So it’s $0.10 not $1.
Would you be able to give us a sense of how your iron ore purchase cost changed relative to the IODEX?  It’s a really good question Brian.
I’d say it’s not just as simple as that because some of our deals relate directly to the IODEX and others do not.
But I think the IODEX has probably fallen per $20 quarter-over-quarter.
If that was a straight shot consuming 3 million tons in the second half of the year one can do that math.
However a portion of that of course we’ve hedged right.
So you can’t really do that math and I don’t know that I’d be able to give with a great certainty here.
It’s tens of millions of dollars.
Let’s say that.
We think our raw materials and energy in total will be a multiple of that for the second half but I think (indiscernible) has it today Brian to give sort of a piecemeal guidance if you will just sort of picking out the iron ore piece or raw materials and energy piece without sort of giving volume and pricing and other components that might affect the third or fourth quarter but please no.
It is a very meaningful move.
What has happened here to iron ore and what’s happened to natural gas and other inputs should serve us very well both in the third quarter and in the second half.
Okay.
Same question on stainless.
I think your date has been a lot of nickel-based stainless steel pricing.
To my knowledge very few of them have stuck for your auto-chrome.
That seems to be much stronger to speak to the base prices for that particular product line and whether you’ve been able to boost those? Our auto-chrome deals are done typically on an annual basis and will be in those dialogues some are undergoing right now.
Similar to our regular automotive contracts they expire at various times throughout the year.
And I think again as with everything supply and demand plays a great role in it.
And the job that we’ve done for our customers matters as well but we’re never shy about seeking to obtain a price that will allow us to obtain a return for our shareholders and to reinvest in the business to be there for the long run and this year will be no exception.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Philip Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now opened.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Phillip.
I had a question largely just on how you think about hedging the iron ore exposure.
You said you got about 3 million tons that you’ve got coming in that you obviously used for the steel making.
So how do we think about that hedging piece going forward and how you just view it strategically? The biggest hedge that we have Philip is of course Magnetation the fact that we have taken 50% off the table if you will.
We could no longer afford to be 0% hedged or 0% ownership and have 100% at risk.
Having said that one can never call the direction with great accuracy or success certainly over the long run.
And so we think being about at that 50% level of self-sufficiency is a very good strategic position to be in whether prices go up or down.
So it offer that as sort of the first point.
Then that leaves us in the open market for about half of our needs.
And again this year as iron ore prices were following we were putting in hedges along the way.
They fell further and faster I think than most expected.
But I think we’re systematic about it.
We’re strategic about it so that we’re not placing big bets.
These are indeed defensive positions to sort of lock in at levels that we think makes sense and preserve and protect our business plans.
So I’d offer that business in terms of the approach.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the grain-oriented piece.
Any color you could give us on what you may anticipate the volume growth to be this year relative to last year given the solid second quarter that you had? It’s certainly going to be up but it’s not going to be up anywhere near where we’d like and certainly nowhere near the record levels that we’ve seen before.
We’ll continue and talk to customers.
Delighted that for the first time in about seven years we are going to be that back to that million tons of housing starts which really drives the after production don’t know we would be able to give you a percentage increase today but we are looking for more this year and even more next year.
Thank Jim.
Good luck.
Thank you Buck.
Thank you and our final question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Jr.
– Cowen and Company</strong> Hi good morning gentlemen.
Hi Tony.
Jr.
– Cowen and Company</strong> Hey Jim got a follow-up question here on the investments at Dearborn and it seems like lot of the investments have been at the hard end and the finishing in coating side relatively little it seem in the hot strip mill I was just wondering can you comment us to the condition of the hot strip mill there or there any significant investments that you see that would be required there over the medium term? Now I’ll let Kirk think about that.
Let me first just sort of way into remind everybody that since 2007 alone this excludes the comments we made earlier about Mountain State coke investment is over but $1.2 billion.
$1.2 billion invested in upgrades since 2007 that’s effectively what we spent to built Rock Fort Worth that’s effectively what Allegheny technologies are spent and it’s new our pickle facility I mean that is a unbelievable amount of money and in the process re-align the blast furnace in our new coal mill complex There are earlier investment aside from the big dollars that keep being throwing out that have been made the steel shop has the new vessel the hot strip mill has new re-heat furnace burner burner utilization project that they spend $30 million on so there has been fair amount of investment there they are based on due diligence the right number of spares the right amount of equipment there and then it become a maintenance and operation again and we intent to reduce the convergence cost by operating more efficiently and applying some of the same techniques we use in our current operation.
So frequently Tony there is never a perfect hand so perfect game we have now significantly more business or in life you play the hand and you drill there are some pretty good hands not perfect hand but pretty good hand we will maximize the opportunity we think again it’s a business we know well we have now significantly more flexibility and we are getting at a very good price all those things we thing that made for very very good investment.
Jr.
– Cowen and Company</strong> That’s look good Jim.
Just one further question so what the capabilities you guys with Rock Fort and other facilities now much more operational flexibility.
And it seems like there is clearly a decided swift going away from electro gal to more hot dip.
You guys think it’s no longer necessary as some others think that you got to have a continuous new line.
Is that not so necessary as you guys see the market pulling out? That’s a really good question.
Tony we’d ask you to sort of hold that question as we finalize our evaluation.
I think one of things that we’ll able to do in terms of competing more effectively by putting Severstal Dearborn and AK together is each of this have done some work and so accessing the needs of the customer in the future and really looking with limited capital as to how to best solve that.
As I mentioned we’re providing all the products we need to today.
The key is how do you best align with the customers in the future.
We don’t want to get ahead of them.
We don’t want to behind them.
We want to be just with them.
Is a [catalog] (ph) the answer or is there some other product or facilities.
I guess that is to be determined but it is a front set setting for us.
It’s certainly on the list of what’s next for AK Steel in the post Dearborn era.
So we just ask you to take put that to the side but please understand that we’re working very very hard on that question and solving it quickly for our customers and to serve them well in the future.
Thank you.
Jr.
– Cowen and Company</strong> Thanks for the color on that Jim.
Appreciate it guys.
So ladies and gentlemen again we want to take this opportunity to thank you for joining us today and for your continuing interest and these exciting times for AK Steel.
On behalf of all of us at the Company I wish you a great day a better tomorrow and a terrific second half of 2014.
Bye for now.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks you Kate and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim’s remarks Roger Newport will review our third quarter financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to the future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences and results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the Company’s website at aksteel.com.
With that here’s Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thanks very much Doug.
Greetings to everyone and thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
Excluding the effects of the unplanned blast furnace outage at our Ashland Works our third quarter 2014 financial results represent our best quarterly performance in five years.
In addition AK Steel's third quarter results continue to trend posting adjusted net income thanks to another tremendous effort on the part of AK Steel employees.
Speaking of our employees since this is the first conference call following our acquisition of Dearborn let me extend a warm welcome to our new employees from Dearborn and Mountain State Carbon; welcome aboard.
In summarizing the highlights of the quarter of course I will start with the successful and really the transformational acquisition of Dearborn as well as improving business fundamentals including increased shipments as we capitalize on improved market conditions and lower raw material and energy cost a benefit of which was partially offset by the unplanned outage at our Ashland blast furnace that I just mentioned.
All that resulted in a financial performance that exceeded our own expectations and those of the street with EBITDA in excess of $100 million and two consecutive quarters of adjusted net income and with the start-up of Magnetation's pellet plant underway suffice it to say that this is really an historic quarter for AK Steel.
It's certainly a quarter to remember and it provides us with a solid foundation on which to build and to grow our future earnings and cash flow.
All these items have positioned the company for future success and of course all those efforts are for the benefit of our shareholders our customers and our employees.
When it comes down to it our business like every business is really a people business.
In the marketplace we're differentiated based upon our products and our people.
It's really our people that make a great difference.
We're fortunate to have one of the finest workforces in the steel business and for that matter and all of American manufacturing and our employees love to make things in America manufacturing carbon stainless electrical steel products to help our customers meet the needs of their customers which is great because at AK Steel serving customers better than any other steel maker is our mission.
That involves consistently producing the highest quality carbon stainless electrical steel products delivering them on time and providing superior customer service before and after the sale.
Each and every quarter we find out how well we're doing based on the results from an independent survey conducted by Jacobson &amp; Associates we receive a report card of sorts from our customers.
For the third quarter of 2014 those survey results indicated that AK Steel ranked first in quality and both the carbon and specialty steel markets and we rank first in overall customer satisfaction by specialty steel customers the type rates and we'll continue to do everything we can for our customers.
In a marketplace that frequently do steel as a commodity with product services and people being considered homogenous frankly we beg to differ.
At AK Steel we built our company's reputation on producing and selling the highest quality products and providing superior customer service.
As we've said before on many occasions price is what you pay but value is what you get and at AK Steel we sell value.
We'll continue again to do everything we can to stand out from the crowd in a good way that is in all that we do and to align ourselves with customers who prefer what we offer namely great products and great service.
Now let me offer a few thoughts on what we're seeing in our markets with a particular emphasis on automotive and electrical.
As many of you know the automotive market represents approximately one half of our business and 16.7 million units the third quarter seasonally adjusted annual sales rate for light vehicles was its highest since the first quarter of 2006.
Compared to the same quarter a year ago automotive light vehicle sales were up between 6% and 7% while AK Steel shipments to automotive customers excluding Dearborn are up by about 12% in another words for gaining market share.
NAFTA light vehicle production for 2014 is currently estimated at 17 million units compared to 16.2 million units for 2013.
Our carbon and stainless and to a lesser extent our electrical steel all serve the automotive market and all those products have experienced gains resulting from the growth in automotive.
We're providing more carbon exposed and unexposed automotive products more stainless bright trim products and more automotive exhaust products to meet this increased demand.
Consistent with the overall market increase AK Steel's automotive shipments for the third quarter of 2014 were also the highest they’ve been in eight and a half years since the first quarter of 2006.
We expect continued strong demand for our products service the automotive customer so we look out to the fourth quarter of 2014 and beyond.
Now let me shift gears to the electrical steel market.
AK Steel is a leading global producer while grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES products and really has been since their invention and commercialization all the way back to the 1930s.
Today AK Steel's GOES products are part of the steel structure of America's electricity generation and distribution system or what is more commonly referred to as The Grid.
AK Steel's electrical steel products are critical in transporting energy.
As such our electrical steels can be found in power transmission and distribution equipment for energy projects around the globe.
Those products provide a highly efficient electromagnetic material for converting voltages within the Grid for both conventional and renewable power sources such as hydroelectric wind and solar.
In terms of what we're observing in the GOES marketplace we're encouraged by the signs we're seeing of improving demand especially for the business within the NAFTA region.
Our order book for GOES is improving as order books for our customers strengthen.
Once again we believe the gains are real and continue to be linked to improvements on the housing front and not connected to weather related events.
The international electrical steel market is improving slightly with improved market pricing and stronger demand for the highest efficiency electrical steel products.
Longer term we look forward to the implementation of higher efficiency standards for GOES as both of the U.S.
and European markets which we expect will spur additional GOES sales for our company.
In addition we're hard at work to develop and roll out new and more efficient grades of electrical steel given a level playing field that is AK Steel can compete with any steel producer in the world.
We'll have to make sure that the field is indeed a level one and that America does not become the dumping ground for electrical steel products.
For that reason and to ensure that we do not have to compete with unfairly low priced imports of electrical steel we field trade cases for both GOES products and for non-oriented electrical steel or NOES products.
In our GOES case we were very disappointed that the International Trade Commission ruled that the U.S.
industry was not materially injured by imports and we've chosen to appeal that decision.
In the case of NOES or non-oriented product preliminary duties to address those subsidies in dumping have been implemented.
As a result the importers are now required to post deposits with U.S.
customs.
We're anticipating a final injury determination by the ITC later this month.
And lastly on the subject of our markets we comment briefly on what we're seeing in terms of the carbon steel spot market.
Our demand is steady and increase have been on the rise for our carbon steel products sold in the spot market.
The result last week we announced a $20 per ton price increase effective in immediately.
This announcement underscores our continued efforts to emphasize the value of AK Steel's carbon steel products in the marketplace.
Speaking of our markets and our customers let me highlight our acquisition of Dearborn which closed on September 16 about seven weeks ago today.
The Dearborn acquisition makes AK Steel a larger stronger and more flexible steel company and it provides us with a growth platform to better serve our carbon steel customers.
In the first month and half since we acquired Dearborn we've been hard at work integrating the Dearborn operations and implementing AK Steel's approaches to safety environmental and quality as well as our operating and maintenance practices and procedures.
As a result we're already seeing solid progress gains and safety quality and productivity are clearly evident and we're increasingly confident in obtaining if not exceeding our cost based synergy targets.
I've asked Kirk Reich AK Steel's Senior VP of Manufacturing to participate in the Q&amp;A session of today's call in order to help respond the questions that you may have regarding our Dearborn operations but suffice it to say that we're very excited about the equipment that we purchased at Dearborn and we're hard at work to optimize all aspects of the Dearborn assets together with our existing assets at other AK Steel locations.
Speaking of optimizing assets in my remaining comments; let me provide brief updates on three subjects.
First the plan to Ashland Works blast furnace outage that's taking place here in the fourth quarter.
Second the recent start-up of Magnetation's pellet plant and its initial progress and third how AK Steel is innovating in terms of our product offerings including advanced high-strength steels.
For the first time in nearly three decades we are inside the hearth of the blast furnace at Ashland as we perform a very important hearth reline job.
Completion of this outage which was prudently advanced from 2015 to this year should position us well to service our customers needs for several years to come.
The outage began as scheduled on October 23 is expected to be 28-day job and so far everything is proceeding as planned.
To supplement the last production we did or are doing a number of things.
For example we built inventories ahead of the outage we challenged our other steel making facilities to make more and we purchased merchant carbon slabs to supplement our own production.
We look forward to completing this job in the next couple of weeks and having the Ashland blast furnace back online and operating well.
As a reminder both the Dearborn blast furnace which was rebuild in 2007 as well as the Middletown blast furnace which was realigned in 2009 are in great shape and running well.
Of the few older appetites blast furnaces need a steady diet of iron ore pellets.
With that in mind let me turn to our raw materials integration strategy and particular to Magnetation.
On September 28 Magnetation began producing iron ore pellet at its Reynolds Indiana location well ahead of its original schedule.
The pellet plant is in a start-up mode and will be in that mode for the balance of 2014 and the first part of 2015.
Initial production and quality levels have been as expected and transportation of the pellets to our blast furnaces by unit trains has gone smoothly.
We expect to receive more than 0.5 million tons of pellets from Magnetation during the fourth quarter of 2014.
As you may recall the pellet plant is part of AK Steel's vertical integration strategy to become more self sufficient in terms of raw materials and lower our cost over the long term.
Upon completion of its start-up phase Magnetation is expected to be a very low cost high quality pellet producer and will serve as a long-term hedge for our company.
With a total company requirement of about 9 million tons of pellets annually now with Dearborn the 3 million tons from Magnetation provides us with about one third of our total requirement.
We like this mix and once again we see it as a hedge for the future.
In the mean time since we're less vertically integrated than others in our industry on the raw materials front we've enjoyed and will continue to enjoy lower prices for steel making inputs such as coal coke and iron ore pellets.
Lastly let me comment on what we're viewing in terms of product innovation especially when it comes to producing advanced high strength steel but first let me comment on our newest product innovation CHROMESHIELD 22 it's a new nickel free stainless steel product that provides enhanced benefits and more predictable pricing for our customers.
This breakthrough product was developed by AK Steel researchers and provides corrosion resistance that meets or exceeds the performance of conventional nickel bearing stainless steels albeit at a lower cost.
Needless to say it's attracting a lot of interest.
On the subject of advanced high strength steels as a reminder we currently produce all of the coded grades of advanced high strength steels that our customers currently require and we want to make sure that we're well positioned to serve customer's needs for future light weighting applications.
With that in mind we're actively involved in both internal and collaborative research and development efforts of true third generation products to meet future needs.
Our internal research efforts are in the final stages of evaluating alternative technologies and determining whether one or more approaches are the right way for us to go in the future.
Let me emphasize that some of the approaches we're considering involve minimal if any capital investment while others involve modest investment.
We're also evaluating whether to proceed alone or with a partner on this subject.
That brings us solely to say that future light weighting initiatives and the production of advanced high strength steels are important subjects for and for our customers and are subjects that will have more to say about in the near future.
So let us jump -- I hope that you're getting a sense that there is a lot of momentum building at our company.
Indeed we're forging a brighter future at AK Steel.
One of the reasons our future looks brighter is the dramatic shift that's occurring in terms of our cash flow position.
We have substantially lower cash needs in the future.
To be clear we expect more than a $300 million decrease in our cash commitments from the year 2014 to 2015.
For the past several years we've been consumers of cash as we invest it.
We invest it in Magnetation and AK Coal as we contributed heavily to the pension trust which helped our refunded status and as we settled certain retiree healthcare obligations through VEBA deals.
And all the while we met the needs of the business including funding our working capital needs and our operating losses to get from there to here.
Now we're focused on becoming generators of significant cash flow.
Truly a high class problem for us and one that our company and our Board of Directors have faced for quite a while but we look forward to doing so as we turn the corner to 2015 with our cash requirements to fund coal and iron ore investments being essentially complete and with minimal pension contributions about 35 million expected for the entire Euro 15 compared to nearly 200 million this year and in recent years and we expect higher EBITDA generation as we reap the benefits of our strategic initiatives lower raw material cost and the lack of another severe winter and its impact on energy cost and iron ore parts availability improved Ashland operations upon completion of the hearth job and certainly enhancing and optimizing Dearborn's operations while meeting or exceeding our targeted cost base synergies.
Indeed for all the good work that's been done for the investments that we've made and acquisition that we've done the future is certainly a brighter one for AK Steel and for our shareholders than it has been in quite some time.
All the efforts of the company are focused on enhancing shareholder value whether it's drawing profitable sales lowering operating and input cost introducing innovative carbon and specialty steel products to the marketplace our daily continuous improvement of products in every facet of our business or occasionally making transformational acquisitions.
We do all those things to reward our shareholders.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Now to recap our second quarter excuse me our third quarter financial results here's our Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today we were pleased to report adjusted net income of $16.4 million for a $0.12 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2014.
Our adjusted third quarter results exclude cost of $23.6 million or $0.17 per share related to the acquisition of the former Severstal Dearborn facility which is now referred to as Dearborn Works.
Our adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2014 represented a solid improvement over the second quarter results and a continued improvement throughout 2014.
In fact our adjusted net income was $32 million or $0.24 per diluted share better than our adjusted results for the second quarter of 2014.
Our third quarter results included a LIFO credit of $10.9 million compared to a LIFO credit of 3.3 million for the second quarter of 2014.
However we note this LIFO credit includes $7.3 million related to the Dearborn acquisition and this LIFO credit for $7.3 million completely offset the recognition of higher cost for the acquired inventory.
Thus excluding the Dearborn adjustment for LIFO our LIFO credit for the third quarter was $3.6 million basically flat which is the second quarter.
In regards to outage cost we have planned outage expenses in the third quarter of $1.1 million compared to $2.5 million in the second quarter.
During the third quarter of 2014 we incurred unplanned outage expenses of $23.2 million related to an incident at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
The unplanned outage cost impacted our third quarter bottom line by about $0.16 per diluted share.
For the third quarter we shipped 1 462 900 tons which represented an increase of 65 000 tons or about 5% more than our second quarter shipments.
The third quarter shipments increase was mostly due to the inclusion of shipments resulting from the acquisition of Dearborn which closed on September 16.
Sales for the third quarter totaled nearly $1.6 billion about $63 million or 4% higher than the second quarter.
Our average selling price for the third quarter was $1 089 per ton which was in line with our guidance and slightly below our second quarter price.
The third quarter average selling price reflects the addition of Dearborn Works carbon field sales for roughly a two-week period.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest that are included in our operating results.
As a reminder our non-controlling interest consists primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the non-controlling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2014 was $100.5 million or $69 per ton.
This represents a substantial improvement of $35 million or $22 per ton compared to the second quarter of 2014.
I believe it is also important to note that our third quarter adjusted EBITDA was negatively impacted by the Ashland blast furnace unplanned outage cost of $23.2 million or $16 per ton.
Now moving to our results for first nine months of 2014.
Shipments for the first nine months of 2014 were 4 122 500 tons an increase of 267 000 tons or 7% higher compared to the first nine months of 2013.
As Jim mentioned this was primarily driven by our strong automotive market shipments.
Revenues for the first nine months were $4.5 billion an increase of more than $400 million or roughly 10% compared to the first nine months of 2013.
Our average selling price for the first nine months of 2014 was $1 093 per ton an increase of $28 per ton or roughly 3% compared to the same period last year.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred planned outage cost of $32 million during the first nine months of 2014 compared to $27 million for the same period in 2013.
We also incurred approximately $41 million in unplanned major maintenance outage cost during the first nine months of 2014 compared to $18 million during the first nine months of 2013.
The extreme winter weather conditions we experienced early in 2014 resulted in $45 million of higher cost in the first nine of 2014.
The cost increases were primarily the result of higher electricity natural gas transportation and operating cost.
As a result of the challenges we faced in 2014 at the bottom line for the first nine months of 2014 we reported a net loss of $110.4 million and an adjusted net loss of $85.8 million excluding the Dearborn acquisition cost.
This compares to a net loss of $82 million for the first nine months of 2013.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow the biggest and most exciting news this quarter was the successful acquisition of Dearborn Works.
We paid $707 million for Dearborn and acquired $29 million of cash thus resulting in a neat cash outflow of approximately $677 million as shown on our cash flow statement.
We estimate we will have to make a working capital to our payment of approximately $14 million in the fourth quarter.
The working capital acquired was approximately $300 million excluding the acquired cash.
For the third quarter 2014 our capital investment totaled $10.9 million compared to capital investments of $13.5 million in the second quarter of 2014.
On the strategic front in the third quarter we invested $45 million in our iron ore joint venture with Magnetation.
Through the third quarter we completed $90 million of our $100 investment commitment for 2014.
We have already made the remaining $10 million investment in the Magnetation joint venture in October and this payment completes out total investment commitment of nearly $300 million.
Moving on to working capital as expected working capital was a source of $27.5 million of cash during the quarter.
Our working capital usage in the first nine months of 2014 was $135 million and this was slightly lower than our historical average for the same time period over the prior four years.
We continue to be focused on managing on the working capital needs of our business.
We expect to achieve a significant reduction in working capital in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Despite this positive we expect our working capital will be a net user of cash for the full year of 2014.
In the third quarter we also made an $84 million contribution to our pension fund.
This completed our full year contribution to the $197 million to the pension trust for 2014.
Since 2005 we have now contributed nearly $1.9 billion to the pension trust.
Looking ahead dramatic changes are on the way in terms of our better future pension contributions.
With Highway and Transportation Funding Act signed into law we expect our pension contributions to decrease to approximately $35 million in 2015 and to decline even further in 2016 to approximately $15 million.
Further we expect our OPEB benefit payments to decrease from approximately $65 million this year to approximately $50 million next year.
Here’s the key point I want to make in total our cash needs attributable Magnetation required pension contributions and OPEB benefit payments are currently expected to be more than $300 million were in 2015 compared to 2014.
In connection with our acquisition of Dearborn we are pleased to complete several successful financings during the third quarter.
Our $430 million senior notes offering and our instrument of approximately $40 million shares of common stock were both very well received.
With this financing structure in place we expect the Dearborn acquisition to be accretive for our share holders as well as credit enhancing.
We also expanded our asset based revolving credit facility from $1.1 billion to $1.5 billion.
Our expanded credit facility provides a company with enhanced liquidity and greater financial and strategic flexibility.
I would also point out that we have no significant debt maturities until 2018.
Taking all these factors into account we ended the third quarter 2014 with strong liquidity of $912 million an increase of $373 million from the end of the second quarter.
Accordingly we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations.
Now turning to our outlook as is our practice we planned to provide detail guidance in December for the fourth quarter of 2014.
In advance of that guidance I would note that we expect the fourth quarter 2014 results to be on impacted by the planned Ashland blast furnace outage and be lower than normal operating rates and Ashland Works going into the planned outage.
We expect that these items will impact on operating cost by approximately $30 million in the fourth quarter 2014.
Previously we had expected $13 million of higher costs leading up to this planned outage and $29 million up outage cost this total part of estimate $42 million in now $30 million down $12 million from our prior guidance.
And as I mentioned there’s $20 million capital investment at our Ashland Works blast furnace will position us well for the future.
Let me conclude my prepared remarks by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
(Operator Instructions) One moment please for our first question.
Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley please go ahead with your question.
Hey.
Good morning guys Good morning Evan.
Just a first question on guidance I know there’s a lot of moving pieces in working outage and just price move and so forth.
If you go back to the guidance from last quarter you mentioned that you thought the fourth quarter financial performance would improve relatively in the third quarter and I didn’t see it in this press release this morning do you still think that will be the case? Evan good question.
We’re certainly hopeful for a better fourth quarter.
It is our really our role as a management team to improve things every day every quarter in every way possible that remains our focus.
But I think you now in light of the many moving pieces and parts to the quarter and not the least of which are Ashland blast furnace job that we spoke extensively about here Magnetation startup integrating Dearborn and you know the spot market with all that it brings at this time of year.
I think we are better suited to hold off for another four to six weeks before we provide our official guidance but we look to continue to run a great business increase utilization rates increase the synergy generation and to do all the things that we know how to do that will hopefully lead to that to end result.
Got you thanks next question is on iron ore there was some discussion last week that perhaps some of the under the seaborne link contracts you might have with Cliffs have some floors on them? I just wonder if you can maybe expand on that and kind of let us know how much of the benefit of this iron ore price value you will actually see flow through next year? Let me just comment generally on Cliffs now we have a good relationship with Cliffs Lourenco and I know each other well we met.
You know we have deals with them both from sort of more the AK and now from Dearborn.
You know we’re talking about a lot of things.
Perhaps there are opportunities to improve each of our company’s performance over time.
So that’s obviously an important discussion that’s going on.
You know I think that currently with the decline roughly 40% decline this year in terms of the IODEX were going to benefit I just hasten to add that there are multiple components in each of those fields that I just referred to so it’s not entirely IODEX based.
The other thing is there’s bit of a trailing effect in terms of when those costs flow through are cost of goods sold.
So we will benefit in the fourth quarter without a benefit in the first.
And depending on whether it’s your firm or others prognostications with respect to ‘15 and beyond we certainly expect work to remain you know several 100 for some period of time and given that were 2/3rds dependant on purchases and only a 3<sup>rd</sup> dependant on our own or relationship with Magnetation that’s really going to position us very nicely as we go into next year.
Okay thanks.
I’ll turn it over.
Thanks Evan.
Our next question comes from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Hi am just wondering if you had any updates on thoughts now that you’ve had Dearborn for a short time? What the kind of productivity upside you think there could be to your initial $50 million share you estimate? I am going to just kick that off and then I’ll ask Kirk to chime in.
He spent a lot of time as has keys and mobile at more reed up with that facility.
We’re really thrilled frankly with the quality of the assets with the people and we are all about the business of AK-ising Dearborn if you will.
You know our approach again is one that focuses on keeping our people safe serving our customers better than anyone and we are above all that in all of those areas.
I think one of the very key synergies that we're attacking is the quality and productivity and you know we’ve seen some things maybe Kirk you want to just give a couple of examples or some thoughts as to what we're seeing there.
Sure we’ve already seen some pretty significant increase in productivity level although the of the our blast furnace and Dearborn we’ve been able to do kind of what we’re used to do in our other facilities and increased the throughput of that facility which obviously then flows through the rest of the entire place and is a big piece of our synergies that we count on and that we’ve so far been able to deliver upon.
We've got several improvements we've made with regard to hot mill ratio with regard to the quality of the product with regard to the stability of the quality of the product with regard to the stability of the hot strip mill and so on and so forth.
We've really brought about a whole new culture to the facility.
I think what we found in general was what we expected which was very good people.
We found very good equipment.
We found good attitudes and impingements but in some cases not so good on the practices procedures and controls.
And naturally what we brought to the facility is that cultural change and we are about to improve in all those things.
And as we improve those and enforce and then hold people accountable we expect that we will be continuing to see what we've already started which are significantly improved safety results significantly improved compliance to environmental standards improved quality and improved throughput and efficiency of the operations.
And it's well it's not very sexy it's all fully efficient and all fully effective and we've already seen some very good results from.
Okay thanks.
And I guess just as sort of a baseline $2 million in operating profit in the two weeks you owned it whether any funnies in there or is that number as a baseline extrapolatable anything around how we can use that number would be great? Probably the $2.1 million operating profit includes $2.6 million of severance cost.
So if you'd add it back that's a one-time item.
Okay okay thanks.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Levy with Jefferies.
Hey guys I know you had said that you're going to reduce uses of working capital going into the fourth quarter.
I'm just asking the weathered question you know do you guys want to get as much coal for met coal and as much iron ore you know kind of to your facility that is possible in case we have another polar vortex? And then I had a follow-up question on Magnetation.
You know you try and learn from life and lessons and I will tell you that we will be very well prepared we felt we were well prepared.
We will be very well prepared going into this winter on all fronts whether it's raw material front whether it is hedging our electricity and natural gas positions will be good to go although we do not expect another polar vortex to use your term.
We probably have a little bit higher levels of raw materials right now that we anticipated anyhow.
Just because we've had some operational difficulties and advance of the outage so you know I think whether by hook or by crook whatever sometimes we're good and sometimes we're lucky we have plenty at least we think we do.
Everything gets changed.
Well I think you know this but I just emphasized it is and the fact that we're going to get a third of our ore now from Magnetation would geographically change this things for us from our diversification standpoint and we continue to have dialogue with those producers in South America who can help us as well.
So I think we're in good shape.
And then on the Magnetation front you know FDI is actually down near 80.
Would you guys consider some sort of creative financing to help them kind of through the loss of the iron ore pricing dynamics? Yeah look I think from our standpoint overall this still works and I think for them it works and they can speak for themselves.
Longer term they would probably like a little higher and longer term we're we probably see it a little bit higher we're working closer but unless there's an important relationship that we have overall to very very good relationship we're obviously paying close attention to the startup and but we're also mindful of the IODEX levels.
We don’t have anything to announce today with respect to that.
We do have more of our presentation we're in pretty much constant dialogue at this point in time with those folks to help them through again as I said their quality is good transportation is good.
We're going to have big appetite here coming up soon when we get the Ashland blast furnace back up and running in a few weeks.
So yeah we'll see where things go obviously anytime to start a facility up it's challenging and this is no different but we'll be there for them and they'll be there for us.
Thanks very much guys.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Justine.
Good morning.
I would follow-up to Brett's question.
For those of us who aren’t familiar with Magnetation's financials I mean was there any financially stressed under these under the current annual price scenario and then on line of breadth if AK was considering another investment my question is is AK obligated to contribute anymore capital to Magnetation if their liquidity goes below its own level and how is there a number or is there a rage that you can kind of give us that might need to be required for Magnetation given that we're modeling in the lower pension and type cash payments and maybe this would offset that decline.
I'll just start on this and again encourage my colleagues here to chime in.
Again I think the project cost and Magnetation has its own public debt they'll be speaking for themselves.
This may be a bit higher plus you have to remember there are also in the midst of constructing plant for taking fines out of the ground and so there's a lot of costs that they're incurring right now and obviously what their best levels I don’t think any of us anticipated certainly we didn’t.
It adds a degree of stress.
We are not obligated to contribute additional monies.
We may choose to contribute additional monies.
So we feel that's in our company so it’s same twist but there is no required obligation on the part of AK Steel to contribute further.
Now it may not be in the answerable question but will it be kind of be a $50 million range or kind of 100 to 150 may be just a significant requirement there would it be in the double digits between 0 and 100 million? Someone is ready to comment but I'll just say again let me emphasize we're not required to contribute anything.
So to say it's 0 to 50 is kind of disregarding what I just said.
If we would elect to do something it is not big money but it could be money that could be helpful in the long run to our investment in this entity and to help them kind of get from here to there.
So I just… You know that they started up the power plants.
The construction there is basically complete.
As Jim mentioned they are working on finishing off their they are nearing the completion of plant 4 again as a now missing pellets they are reducing their image to they are improving the working capital position.
So there's a lot of things going on with the entity.
We look at this is a long term investment is there for the long term.
We know what happens with the IODEX it goes up to goes down and we have to be prepared for that.
This one is billed as to be a natural hedge for us.
And we know sometimes it may be lower and we benefit as AK Steel with holding the two thirds of our and we're going down.
And if it starts moving up we're buying.
So we're there you know it's a joint venture.
We have a long-term commitment to and as Jim said there is no required obligations but we're there to support it.
But again the amount that they need moving forward and they've got their construction completed at the pellet plant.
They are in the ramp up mode now and nearing completion of plant four.
Okay thank you very much.
And then my follow up question is on the Dearborn plant and I don’t know if you guys spoke about this when you're on the road but how much of that tonnage is going to or did go to the steel F150? And will need to be diverted into other markets.
And if you guys talked about what markets you are targeting for that steel? I think what we said Justine was that roughly half of the shipments coming out of Dearborn similar to AK Steel shipment or half of them went to the automotive space and clearly the F150 has an effect on us it will have an effect on Dearborn.
Our growth as I referenced in my prepared remarks which has been 12% ratio continues to be about double of what the market is.
It's really sufficient to offset losses that could occur there.
And I guess you know the key is over the long run where will it all shake out we're encouraging hear things like we did yesterday on the CEO of the truck division of Chrysler.
But they saying steel that's very good news to us and we would like to hear about and we think again when it comes to things like cost and safety environment reparability printability insurability I think the win is on every front.
But your question is a good one I guess it remains to be seen.
We've not given specifics and we think that losses will be offset by gains that we're making elsewhere.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Yu with Citi.
Your line is open.
Oh great thanks and good morning.
And my first question is Jim can you give us a sense of currently what you're sales mix how much of that has margins protected? Are you under the long-term contracts versus what portion of that would be more tied to fluctuations in the market prices does that change with the integration include Dearborn? So Brian I would tell you that when we look at the third quarter in terms of that shipment mix roughly 80% 75% to 80% knocking on the door of 80 would have been business of a contract nature.
Of course that runs the full gamut.
It is automotive contracts it is electrical steel contracts it is other deals that we have in place for products that are typically of one year in duration.
You know I think there is a slightly lower percent two thirds would be contract one third roughly something in that sort of range in terms of the Dearborn tonnage.
And so I think when you put all that together it will likely bring our overall percentage back down.
Of course we're working hard to continue to grow contract business that really is our sweet spot.
As I said before steel is viewed as somewhat of a commodity a homogenous study we tend to take issue with that really want to serve more difficult applications the contract business the coated the exposed business and so it's incumbent on us to readily take the assets that we got and move them to a higher plane.
And we're in the midst of doing that which will give us a lot more flexibility in terms of selling to others of a contract nature.
But that gives you some sense of where we are and the direction we are heading in.
Okay that's helpful and then just a clarification on the contract did you say that those are under annual negotiations from a pricing standpoint or are there portions of that that would also move with what we're seeing in the spot market? Some of those would have adjustors if you will associated to one metric or another perhaps quarterly.
The vast majority would not they would be sort of agreed upon.
They might have embedded other issues in them or cost adjustors in them with respect to some sort of input cost.
Increasingly I would tell you that we're moving away from that approach as we have more of our own materials under our own control and there are vehicles available to customers to hedge their positions.
So yeah there are certain adjustors in there but to try and give you a sense of how much with a correlation it's really across the Board.
All right and the question on GOES you mentioned that demand is picking up.
I am wondering why are you guys from utilization rates standpoint and do you see national pick up where you might still see some pricing power as you head into negotiations for next year? We're certainly seeking higher prices.
I will just say that and I will tell you prices are up off the bottom as are volumes.
So there is a lot of upside potential here in terms of our capacity.
I don’t know that we've given a number recently so I'll be a little hesitant on that except to say that you know not quite a double but there's a lot more out there and we're anxious to serve it more ways away from that.
Housing has come back fairly nicely.
We think it will be over a million housing starts for this year.
But I would tell you that that's still way shy like 50% shy of the peak and so there's a long way to go and then the demographics within as you know multi-units single unit or changing as well.
But you've got other things at play here you've got an improving nonresidential construction marketplace that's helpful and I think you've got this entire push towards the more efficient electrical steels.
This whole business of the efficiency standards kicking in and a year or so from now here and in Europe is very valuable to us as we continue to move up that more efficient mix.
I think we have said in the past that we've got capacity 275 000 to 300 000 tons we're well below that.
We're well below that and so tremendous upside from here.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
So listen thanks again everyone for being part of our call today.
We greatly appreciate your interest in AK Steel.
We wish you all the best for a great day a better tomorrow and a terrific fourth quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release which was issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the Company's Web-site at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you very much Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call and a special thanks to those of you on the call who are enduring blizzard conditions in the Northeast.
I'm delighted to share some of the highlights of AK Steel's best quarter of the year 2014 and our best quarter in the past 3.5 years and for the year 2014 represented our best annual performance since 2008.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we achieved record Company shipments of over 2 million tons and record revenues of nearly $2 billion.
Our EBITDA topped $117 million and at the bottom line we delivered adjusted net income of $26.1 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
And it's important to note that we achieved these results despite a major planned maintenance outage at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
The outage was taken in order to reline the parts of the furnace for the first time in about three decades.
The expensed portion of the outage totaled some $31 million.
I might add that the job went very well and was completed safely on budget and ahead of schedule.
The Ashland blast furnace is operating well and with the work that was just completed we expect to be well positioned there for the next five years with a full reline of the furnace not expected until 2019.
So exactly how is it that we're improving our financial performance? Let me take a moment or two to highlight the key contributing factors.
First I want to give credit where credit is due to our people.
Let me express my gratitude to the men and women of AK Steel and offer my congratulations on a solid fourth quarter and a strong finish to the year 2014.
Their hard work and dedication continue to produce industry-leading safety quality and productivity performances.
Second during the fourth quarter we benefited from lower raw material and energy costs compared to the third quarter.
Prices for steelmaking inputs and especially for iron ore and carbon scrap continued to slide which bolstered our results.
Third this was the first full quarter of owning and operating Dearborn Works.
Our performance at Dearborn exceeded our own high expectations and was accretive to our earnings.
Factoring the fourth quarter Dearborn Works established all-time records for safety allowing the lowest number of OSHA recordable injuries in any quarter ever; in quality dramatically reducing rejected and retreated products as well as secondary sales; in productivity achieving substantial gains in steelmaking and setting production records at the coating line.
From a cost-based synergy standpoint I'm pleased to report that we are exceeding our previously announced targets.
For example for the first full year of ownership of Dearborn we had previously said that we expected $25 million in synergies.
We now believe the potential exist to double this amount.
Since we have acquired the assets gotten into the plant and assessed the situation we continue to see more opportunities ahead.
So we are raising the bar and setting higher expectations in all areas doing more and doing better faster with better quality and safer than in the past.
That's who we are at AK Steel and that's what we're bringing to Dearborn Works.
I want to express my thanks to the [indiscernible] employees of Dearborn Works and to the Dearborn integration team for getting us this far this fast.
It's been exciting and to some extent it's been daunting but we're confident that the best is yet to come.
Overall 2014 was a year of progress for AK Steel.
After battling unprecedented extreme winter weather conditions energy price spikes a shortage of pellets and operational challenges we overcame adversity and generated adjusted net income for each of the final three quarters of the year.
We continue to profitably grow the business.
We increased our automotive shipments by 12% compared to overall auto market sales that grew by about 6%.
We set a record for auto-chrome shipments and the electrical steel business began to rebound.
We completed our investments in our strategic raw material ventures which are part of our long-term strategy to hedge our positions improve our self-sufficiency and reduce our costs.
During 2014 we successfully negotiated four new labor contracts including packs at AK Tube Ashland Middletown and Mansfield and as we head into 2015 we're in good shape with only one labor contract expiring at Zanesville in May of this year and we hope to attain a new labor deal at Mountain State at some point.
All of the progress we made in 2014 positions us well for a much better year in 2015 as we expect to benefit from continued gains in our chosen markets significant reductions in cost for raw materials and energy and a full year of growth opportunities from our Dearborn operations and further realization of increasing cost-based synergies.
And I might add for the first time in many years we expect to go from being a consumer of cash to a cash generator.
Being cash flow positive obviously creates many opportunities for AK Steel and for our shareholders.
So the future is bright for AK Steel in many ways [indiscernible].
That said each year brings with it certain challenges and for 2015 the first challenge that we're facing is depressed pricing in the carbon steel spot market.
Simply put there's too much supply for the current demand level.
Why? Because of imports.
Between 2013 and 2014 flat-rolled finished carbon and steel imports rose by some 60%.
For the year we saw more than 11 million net tons of flat-rolled carbon steel imports compared to less than 7 million tons in the prior year.
To put that into perspective it's the equivalent of having a new 4 million ton steel mill appear roughly overnight in the domestic carbon steel market.
The increased supply has had a negative impact on pricing in the domestic market especially in the spot market.
The fact has put undue pressure on carbon prices and we experienced a bigger price decline than we expected in the fourth quarter of '14.
As a result it's off this low base that we embarked for 2015.
In terms of our sales mix for this year we expect approximately 75% of our Company sales to take place in the contract market with the remaining 25% in the spot market for 2015.
However that 25% sold in the spot market represents a real wildcard for us for the first quarter and in all likelihood for all of 2015.
Given the troubled economies outside the United States and the huge increase in their steel exports to the U.S.
our attorneys are taking a hard look at whether or not a trade case should be filed.
But one thing is crystal clear we've been injured.
Both AK Steel and the U.S.
steel industry have been significantly harmed as America has become the dumping ground for foreign-produced steel.
How fast we can prove injury and how quickly we can accelerate the process is key.
I might add that our contract pricing is not immune and in fact has already been hurt as well from the pricing pressures brought about by the sharp increase in lower-priced imports.
When all the numbers are tallied we expect that finished steel import figures for 2014 will show it to be the highest import market share in history at about 28%.
Clearly we're focused on this issue and you'll be hearing more about it.
So stay tuned.
At AK Steel we're in the business to provide our customers with the finest quality carbon stainless and electrical steel products available on the planet.
Our mantra if you will is to serve customers better than any other steel maker.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 Jacobson and Associates' independent survey of carbon steel customers showed that AK Steel was number one in quality delivery of service and overall customer satisfaction compared to our integrated steel competitors.
In addition the Jacobson survey showed that AK Steel's specialty customers also gave us their number one ranking in the areas of quality and service key areas that are vital in the specialty steel space.
We'll continue to take the best possible care of our customers as together we learn to grow profitably.
Now let me offer a few comments on what things look like as we enter the year 2015 and what we expect to see as this year unfolds.
Although we'll wait to provide specific guidance on the first quarter until March of this year let me give you a general sense of what we're currently seeing and what we expect going forward.
The automotive market which represents approximately 50% of our sales remains very strong.
The build schedules for 2015 are projected to be 2% to 3% higher than 2014 and that would represent the sixth consecutive year of automotive build increases.
AK Steel shipments to the automotive industry have increased at a greater percentage than the build schedules in each of the past three years and we expect that trend to continue in 2015 where we see growth with each of our automotive customer.
Based on a continuing positive outlook for the automotive sector that shows auto builds exceeding 17 million units for 2015 we anticipate higher shipments of carbon and stainless steel products to automotive customers this year.
Despite all the media hype over aluminum at AK Steel we expect to ship more steel to automotive customers in 2015 than we did in 2014.
As to automotive contract pricing our automotive customers realize that import or spot market pricing really doesn't apply or certainly is not as important of a factor in their value-added purchasing decisions.
Of course they look at cost and steel market conditions but they tend to put much greater emphasis on other items such as 100% on-time delivery exceptional product quality value added product availability and outstanding customer service before and after the sale.
Each of these represents areas where AK Steel excels.
Moving from the auto to the housing sector for a moment housing has also picked up considerably up more than 7% in 2014.
New housing starts reached the 1 million unit mark for the past year.
This was the first time they did so since 2007.
For 2015 new housing starts are expected to grow by about 20% to roughly 1.2 million units.
Obviously this is a great positive for appliance and HVAC demand for power generation and transmission demand and for overall steel demand.
The infrastructure and manufacturing or I&amp;M market is also strengthening.
This market is where we will benefit from improving construction activity both residential and non-residential as well as gains in general manufacturing.
We are especially excited to see that the non-res construction market is expected to be much more favorable in 2015 than 2014.
Service center inventories have been an important topic recently as many service centers ended 2014 with higher inventory levels due to their import purchases.
Carbon flat-rolled inventories finished 2014 at nearly 6.2 million net tons.
That's up almost 12% from November levels and about 24% ahead of year ago levels.
At December 31 2014 the number of months' supply on hand stood at 2.6 on a seasonally adjusted basis compared to 2.3 months at November 30 and 2.1 months at the end of 2013.
Historically speaking 2.5 months' of supply on hand is considered normal for flat-rolled products.
Importantly demand from those who buy from the service centers remains strong.
Demand appears to be very solid frankly so service centers will need to buy steel from domestic producers to fill that need.
They are simply being cautious about when how much and at what price given their inventory levels and import price quotes.
Now let me offer a few thoughts on the stainless steel market.
AK Steel's focus of the stainless arena is really around producing 400 series or auto-chrome products to serve automakers and auto exhaust producers with some of the finest [indiscernible] product in the world.
In 2014 we set a Company record for 400 series stainless shipments and we look for an even better year in 2015.
Similarly we're looking for increased shipments of our specialty sheet and strip products that are produced mostly at our Coshocton Works.
From a volume standpoint we're not a big player in the commodity chrome nickel market which remains a very crowded place to be.
We tend to be opportunistic here and instead focus more on bringing innovative products to the stainless market such as our recently introduced CHROMESHIELD 22 product.
As we were seeing in the electrical steel market the massive Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel or GOES market continues to show signs of real sustained growth.
In other words that's growth unrelated to weather issues.
This is particularly the case in the electrical distribution market.
That said due to the negative ruling by the ITC in the GOES trade case which we've appealed we're unsure whether the increased demand will be supplied by AK Steel or by dumped imports.
On the international GOES front demand and prices are also improving.
In fact GOES suppliers continue to increase prices worldwide especially in the high-efficiency PCH grades where we excel.
We expect demand from high-efficiency GOES grades will continue to strengthen due to the increased efficiency standards in Europe that take effect this year in 2015 and similar standards that become effective January 1 2016 for the United States of America.
Moving for a moment from revenues to cost we expect to benefit meaningfully in 2015 from lower raw material and energy costs including coal coke iron ore pellets natural gas and electricity.
In order to lock in some of the lower cost and help reduce volatility to our earnings stream we've hedged a portion of our 2015 raw material and energy needs.
In terms of iron ore pellets we're purchasing roughly 70% of our iron ore requirements in the open market with the remaining approximate 30% being supplied by our Magnetation joint venture.
It's worth noting that the percentage of open-market purchases is higher than we previously expected because of our acquisition of Dearborn Works.
Magnetation is making progress in ramping up its new pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana and shipping pellets to our Ashland Works blast furnace for consumption there.
As expected the initial pellet quality was good and is continuing to improve.
In addition in December of 2014 Magnetation completed the construction of the final concentrate facility otherwise known as Plant Four and successfully started up this plant to feed the pellet plant in Indiana.
Truly an exciting time for Magnetation and the startup of the pellet plant is an event that all of us at AK Steel have been greatly looking forward to.
Again having said that the convergence of the startup of the pellet plant the startup of the concentrate Plant Four and the drastic decline in the level of the IODEX has created an additional challenge for Magnetation.
Make no mistake we love paying less in the short-term for iron ore pellets but we're in this for the long term with them.
Mostly we want to make sure that the Magnetation joint venture is a success for years if not decades to come.
Accordingly we'll continue to work with Magnetation as they battle through this challenging time.
Let me just take a moment to emphasize that we're not required to invest any additional equity in the Magnetation joint venture.
However Magnetation is strategically important to us and we'll continue to support Magnetation as long as it makes good financial sense for AK Steel to do so.
Also I take this opportunity to address concerns that some investors have expressed related to the lower drilling rig count in light of lower gasoline prices and the impact on AK Steel.
To be clear AK Steel does not produce seamless tube oil country tubular goods or OCTG products nor are we a big player in welded line pipe for the energy market.
Some of AK Steel's products do ultimately make it into the energy sector but again let me reiterate that this is not a major market for any of our products.
Instead we're focused on the automotive market and in helping our customers meet their goals for light-weighting with the best high-strength steels.
Increasingly we're working with our customers to incorporate our advanced high-strength steels in those products into their vehicles.
Falling gas prices also mean that consumers have more disposable income.
They are driving more and they are buying larger more steel intensive vehicles.
These are very good aspects of falling gas prices that are benefiting AK Steel.
If any of you were fortunate enough to attend the 2015 Detroit Auto Show earlier this month you saw the great strides that advanced high-strength steels are making in the automobile industry.
As a matter of fact this segment advanced high-strength steels is the fastest-growing material in light-duty vehicles and our focus of course is on developing third-generation advanced high-strength steels to create stronger and more formable steel products for our customers.
Simply put steel matters.
We strongly believe that steel matters and we believe that our customers agree with that and that consumers feel that way as well and we intend to keep it that way at AK Steel.
Before turning it over to Roger for a financial recap let me say that at AK Steel we are driven to perform in 2015 with Dearborn where the automotive industry in America began.
Now being part of the AK Steel family we're driven in the acronym – driven will be our Company's approach this year; to achieve in the case of the Dearborn Works synergies to complete the plant's integration and realize the synergies higher than we originally expected as quickly as possible.
In the case of how to run our operations consistently well with the special focus on running three blast furnaces to their peak efficiency.
In the case of how to improve our sales margins with a combination of higher prices where possible and lower operating input and overhead costs.
And to the case of validate our strategic raw material investments that is AK Coal and Magnetation as their start-ups and ramp-ups are really key in 2015.
And most importantly to significantly improve ROE our earnings and our cash flow as we negotiate great deals on all fronts with customers suppliers and others deals that pave the way for an even brighter future for AK Steel.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
Now for a review of our financials let me turn it over to AK Steel's Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported adjusted net income of $26.1 million or $0.14 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014 which exceeded our guidance of $0.05 to $0.10 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our adjusted net income excludes one-time expenses in the fourth quarter which totaled $12.6 million.
These costs related to the acquisition of Dearborn Works as well as a pension corridor charge and an OPEB settlement charge.
The pension corridor charge was mostly due to a reduction in the discount rate of approximately 70 basis points compared to the discount rate at the end of 2013 and the application of updated actuarial tables that project longer lifespans.
These impacts were partially offset by the excellent return on our pension trust investments up approximately 9.5% for 2014 a level that was more than 200 basis points higher than our assumed rate of return.
As expected included in our fourth quarter results were $31 million or $0.17 per share of cost associated with the planned outage at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
Our fourth quarter 2014 results also included $11 million of cost associated with other planned major maintenance outages.
In total our planned outages in the fourth quarter were about $42 million which was $41 million higher than what we had incurred in the third quarter of 2014.
At the bottom line our fourth quarter results were an improvement over the third quarter results and they also represented our best quarter of 2014 and our best results since the second quarter of 2011.
Our shipments of 2 010 200 tons for the fourth quarter of 2014 represented an increase of 547 000 tons or about a 37% increase compared to the third quarter of 2014 and were in line with our guidance.
The higher level of shipments was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Dearborn Works.
It also reflected continuing strong demand for our automotive products.
However as we indicated in our December guidance with a higher percentage of carbon steel shipments sold into the spot market as a result of the Dearborn acquisition our average selling price for the fourth quarter was $987 per ton.
This was a decrease of $102 per ton or roughly 9% lower than the third quarter average selling price.
Sales increased significantly for the fourth quarter and totaled just under $2 billion.
This was about 25% higher than our third quarter sales and once again was mostly due to the addition of Dearborn Works for a full quarter.
In the fourth quarter we had a LIFO credit of $5.3 million.
This was less than half of our LIFO credit of $10.9 million for the third quarter.
Included in our fourth quarter LIFO credit was a $14.5 million credit associated with the acquisition of Dearborn compared to a $7.3 million LIFO credit in the third quarter related to the acquisition.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with the comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest that are in our operating results acquisition related costs and our pension corridor charge and OPEB settlement loss.
As a reminder our non-controlling interest consists primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $117 million which represented an improvement of $16.5 million or 16% compared to our third quarter adjusted EBITDA.
Even after incurring the $31 million of costs associated with the hearth reline of our Ashland blast furnace our fourth quarter EBITDA results represented our strongest quarter of 2014 as well as our best quarter in the last '14.
Moving to our results for the full year of 2014 shipments for 2014 totaled 6 132 700 tons an increase of approximately 857 000 tons or 16% compared to 2013.
Our average selling price for 2014 was $1 058 per ton which was virtually identical to the prior year.
Sales for 2014 were $6.5 billion compared to $5.6 billion in 2013 an annual increase of nearly 17% again driven primarily by Dearborn.
Moving from sales to our operations in addition to the $31 million in cost for the planned repairs completed at the Ashland Works blast furnace during the fourth quarter of 2014 we incurred additional expenses of approximately $41 million during the year related to unplanned Ashland blast furnace outages in 2014.
At the bottom line for the year 2014 we reported an adjusted net loss of $59.7 million or $0.40 per share compared to a net loss of $46.8 million or $0.34 per share for the year 2013.
Now turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement for the fourth quarter of 2014 our capital investments totaled approximately $42 million compared to roughly $11 million in the third quarter.
For the year our capital investments totaled $80 million compared to $60 million in 2013.
Working capital was a use of cash of approximately $19 million during the fourth quarter.
We chose to increase our stainless and electrical inventories to support the continuing strong demand for these products.
However we are still carrying higher raw material inventories due to our Ashland Works blast furnace operations in 2014.
For the full year working capital was a use of cash of approximately $154 million as we ended the year with higher than normal levels of raw materials.
By comparison in 2013 working capital was a source of $70 million of cash.
We ended the year 2014 with solid liquidity of $872 million.
As we previously disclosed we anticipate substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014.
Accordingly we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations.
On a strategic front in the fourth quarter we invested $10 million in our iron ore joint venture with Magnetation thus completing our investment requirement.
For the year 2014 we invested a total of $100 million in the Magnetation.
Regarding our balance sheet despite the higher than projected performance of our pension investment portfolio we experienced an increase in our pension and OPEB liabilities.
This increase was attributable to the application of updated actuarial tables that project longer lifespans as well as the decrease in the discount rate of about 70 basis points.
The increase in the pension liabilities was partially mitigated and foreseen by our successful completion of a buyout program with a group of participants in our pension plan.
This allowed us to remove $125 million in liabilities from our pension obligations with the payment from the pension trust assets of approximately $105 million.
This was a very successful program and is yet another step in our strategy to continue to de-risk and deleverage our balance sheet.
While retiree benefit obligations on our balance sheet increased it is important to note that our 2015 and 2016 funding requirements did not increase.
We still expect to contribute approximately $35 million to the pension fund in 2015 and approximately $15 million in the year 2016.
Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter of 2015 as is our practice we plan to provide detailed financial guidance in March.
That said we would like to provide you with a few data points for 2015 at this time.
In 2015 we anticipate approximately $150 million in capital investments with approximately 20% of these investments targeted to projects that will enhance our business and margins and the balance being mostly in maintenance CapEx.
As we have previously indicated the substantial reductions in our cash flow requirements provide us with enhanced flexibility including this opportunity to reinvest in our business.
We also expect working capital to be a source of cash in 2015.
This will be driven in part by a reduction in our coke inventories and other raw material inventories.
We anticipate that our combined pension and OPEB credit for 2015 will be a credit of approximately $65 million compared to a credit of $93 million for 2014.
Our 2015 depreciation expense including our VIE is expected to be approximately $225 million in 2015 compared to $202 million in 2014.
This increase is primarily due to acquiring the assets of Dearborn Works.
Finally with regard to income taxes our 2015 book tax rate as in recent years will be a function of changes in our LIFO reserve.
For example if we incur a LIFO credit we will incur a tax expense and if we incur a LIFO charge then we will incur a tax benefit.
In addition given our NOL tax carryforward position we expect that our cash taxes will continue to be very minimal.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Timna Tanners of Bank of America please go ahead with your question.
I just wondered if you could drill down a little bit on the comments you made about Magnetation about if you have parameters around what kind of contribution you might make to help them as they start up? And then separately if you could comment there's some concern about Dearborn I know that steel still matters and aluminum is going to take in minimum market share but it has been in F-150 so there's some concern Dearborn has been looking for orders and that that's been a struggle can you just address that a little bit in detail please? First off in terms of Magnetation again to be clear it's this convergence of factors that they've had with the startup of the pellet plant the startup of Plant Four and the IODEX I believe this morning falling all the way to low 60s.
Let's just step back from all of that.
First all of our required investment is complete as Roger mentioned in his prepared comments.
We're in for just shy of $300 million.
Clearly this is part of a longer-term strategy notwithstanding the short-term challenges that it faces.
They are doing a great job for us and we expect them to do more and receive something like a quarter of our total pellet needs in this year from Magnetation.
So it's clearly an important part today and will be an important part in the future and we'll be glad that we have it for years to come.
As far as the situation again I would just reiterate Timna that if and when it makes sense for AK Steel in terms of preserving our and protecting our investment and ensuring that our strategy is in place as a long-term hedge we would certainly consider providing some limited financial support to Magnetation because of the relationship that we have and the long-term nature of this investment.
I don't think we're in a position today to really quantify that.
We're obviously looking to Magnetation to do everything it can to lower its cost.
I would emphasize that one of the reasons that we invested initially in Magnetation is we believe that they are indeed a low-cost producer and over the long run will deliver great value to AK Steel probably at little bit higher IODEX levels than we're experiencing today the lowest in 5.5 to 6 years.
But it's going to be really very competitive with our cheapest alternative supply today.
So we'll continue to have great dialog with them as they think about the various means of improving their business and sort of getting from here to there but we'll not really say any more than that except to say that we'll be there.
On the Dearborn matter again I think as we stated in our remarks we said that Dearborn would be transformative and Dearborn has been transformative.
It is a fantastic opportunity for us.
We got it for a great price.
It's a business we know and it gives us a tremendous growth platform.
So we are thrilled to death if that's a right term so far with what we've gotten out of it.
Look inevitably as we transition the product mix as we continue to diversify the customer base there will be challenges and we'll turn those challenges into opportunities.
That's exactly what we're doing.
We want to make more exposed product we want to put more into the automotive space and less into the spot market.
All of that sort of things take time.
Your specific point on the F-150 is a good one.
Undoubtedly the F-150 is a great product and Ford has rolled that out and it's gotten a lot of buzz.
I found it particularly interesting and insightful that Joe Hendricks who is Ford's Head of America indicated that he really doesn't he not me he doesn't expect to see a dramatic increase in aluminum body cars and I thought that was particularly noteworthy given all the attention that Ford trucks have garnered recently.
So steel indeed still matters.
It matters to Ford Motor Company it matters to all the automotive producers it certainly matters to us and our entire focus here at the Company is on serving the ever-changing needs of our customers with vehicle light weighting products.
We're where we need to be today.
The key is what do we do next? We've got a lot of things in motion in our research and innovation activities that we're very close to determining which way to go or several ways to go and we'll have more to say about that very very soon.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
And we'll move on to our next question.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JP Morgan.
I have a couple of questions.
Could you give us the current mix with Dearborn for the Company contract versus spot and contract being anything that's locked in beyond say three months? I think our contract mix rolling Dearborn in is probably 75-25 sort of mix Michael.
Prior to Dearborn we might have touched as high as 80-20 but we've come back a bit just given the mix that we have up at Dearborn.
And in terms of your commentary about the Ford F-150 I understand there's not a lot of aluminum capacity in terms of body-wide capacity that's ready to go right now for 2015 so it's not going to have a big impact on your auto sales for '15 but beyond that it could.
And in terms of an impact right now are the automotive companies basically talking to you when they are talking about price that's in their contracts right now are they basically using that threat of switching to aluminum as kind of a hammer over your head to knock prices down on your contracts business? Again it starts with relationships and great dialog in relationships and understanding what it is that they want.
There's been a lot of dialog on what can you do what do you want and we have to kind of find that great meeting place.
Some are a little bit more clear than others as they continue to think their way through but much of the design work now goes out towards the end of this decade.
That's really what we are in discussions on.
So steel is in fairly good position for a while.
We take nothing for granted though Michael as you know.
I mean look we didn't underestimate we don't underestimate now.
There's a serious threat.
We've got to have the products we've got them today but the important thing is as vehicle designers and engineers plan for those future bodies and exteriors that we're there with them and we think everything that we're doing and particularly in terms of third-gen advanced high strength steels in terms of the high strength the formability the weldability cost competitiveness environmental friendliness all those things we bring to the party and then some to keep it steel.
And I would say while there's a good dialog and it's a very healthy dialog back and forth across the table it's not being used as a threat or a hammer to try and extract price or volume from us.
Then I thought you said earlier on that your contract pricing was being negatively impacted right now.
Could you expand on that? I'd just say that again in the spirit of the dance and cooperation and so forth clearly those who buy product see what's happening in terms of import pricing.
We remind them of all the things that we do and they know that it's a very difficult thing if not impossible to get from imported products but we sell value at AK Steel right.
Value is what you get price is what you pay.
And I think that those who know us and know us well understand that.
Having said that they are not shy about using all the tools at their disposal to help with their negotiations.
That 75% contract is any part of that floating or indexed? Certainly some portion of it is Michael.
I mean most of the automotive deals that we do whether it's with OEMs or with 400 series of stainless buyers those are largely set and they might have some variable component in them but there's a component say in the I&amp;M space that would have a reset mechanism could be a function of any number of things CRU or otherwise that could float as the year goes.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Good quarter.
Jim or Roger can you talk a little bit about additional opportunities you may see at Magnetation bonds right now or offering sort of I don't know if this is going to be a strong and enduring relationship very compelling would you guys in addition to making investments to fund their liquidating potentially look at buying some bonds there? I guess all things are possible.
That's been really something we've spent a lot of time thinking about.
I'll just go back to I think Magnetation knows the challenge that they have they are working through it and looking to kind of get from here to there as they go through this ramp-up phase or phases and deal with this incredibly low IODEX situation.
I don't know Roger do you want to… Sure.
They're basically taking lot of actions to address their liquidity their tight liquidity that they currently have.
They pretty much have the issues going on regarding their starting up and still ramping up their pellet plant.
They're having a concentrate facility up and running and then producing the pellets to bring down their inventories of the concentrate inventory they built to support the pellet plant.
So you have all those that are creating the tightness and as Jim said we're there to work with them for the long term we want to be successful but we got to make sure we do it right for our Company also.
If anybody's securities are cheap it's those of AK Steel whether it's our notes or our incredibly undervalued stock.
Glad you have the opportunity to say that.
Also at Magnetation I think on their call they mentioned that if liquidity was tight and there wasn't a longer-term resolution that probably they would taper back the amount that they could ship from Plant Four in their pellet plant to AK.
Is there still a target to get to 50% supply from those guys or actually no it won't be less than that but a much higher percentage that they were targeting or is that going to be slowed down a bit? With Dearborn that would be much less than 50% it would be more like 30% 35% and we're tapering up on that a bit as they continue to ramp up their production.
This year we'll be somewhere around 25%.
So it will be a bit of a change over time but it won't be for the 50% allocated to Dearborn.
And just as an editorial add-on I think Kirk's comments are right on except it's important that everybody on the call understand that Magnetation is great but we're still buying this year three quarters of iron ore needs in the open market and we'll be benefiting substantially from roughly a 50% drop from where prices were a year ago.
This is exactly why we have – we don't put all of our eggs in one basket we don't want to be fully integrated we don't want to be 100% exposed to the market because one cannot quite call that very well it's been difficult for all of us to call that.
So this is a really wonderful position for us to be in we're happy about it and we think in the long run it's going to serve us really really well.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now opened.
Just a question on Dearborn as far as the synergy target you put out there $50 million for this year how much of that synergy did you begin to realize potentially in the fourth quarter and what really are you changing operationally to get to that number? The fourth quarter we would estimate that we benefited by about $5 million in synergies for the quarter and going forward as Jim mentioned that we have targeted in the first year of owning that we would anticipate getting $25 million of synergies and as he indicated in his remarks that we believe that we have the opportunity to possibly double that amount.
Part of it is driven on what levels we produce at.
We see the opportunities as we've talked about previously of increasing our hot ended operations increasing our blast furnace production because they are blast furnace constrained at Dearborn.
So that is one of the key drivers which will be partly driven by how the market conditions are.
But overall we've also been making improvements in regards to secondary.
We have improved on the quality side and reduced our secondary and we see still opportunity there to improve the quality.
I'll just say that we're changing a whole lot of things at Dearborn and it really started with accountability and efficiencies in the operations throughout all aspects.
Our safety performance has improved there significantly and the fourth quarter was the best quarter they ever had on the best year we've ever had.
So that's taken a big step forward quality-wise.
As Roger mentioned not only the secondary sales but our retreats and reject levels are improved by some 30% or so from the fourth quarter versus the rest of the year which was already ahead of direction.
So [indiscernible] we've increased the productivity of the blast furnace significantly the sequence length of the caster is significantly improved as Jim mentioned earlier record levels of production at the galv line so across-the-board improvements.
Thanks for all that color and just have a question on iron ore what should we be looking for or expect as far as potential benefit in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter are you expecting your iron ore cost to be down even more so than they were in the fourth? Let me give you some color commentary there of what's been happening with the IODEX.
I'll take you back to the first quarter of last year when we entered 2014 the IODEX was at $134.
It continued to drop throughout the year.
It ended in the fourth quarter at $94.
The first quarter is already priced because that's the form of lag that has already been priced but that is at $79 a ton.
And if you would look to the second quarter which is based on the December through February timeframe for pricing the second quarter based on where things are trending we would anticipate that to be in the low 70s.
I would just also add if I could it's important to understand that in most cases with the external deals that we have there are several components three maybe four components so it's not a one for one fall.
Even though those IODEX numbers that Roger just quoted are sort of unbelievably great and dramatic for us there is a percentage that one would have to apply to that to see that fall through and whether that's a quarter or a third or something in that range.
Nonetheless it's very important to us and we are obviously taking advantage of the opportunity in this environment to put some caps and collars in place from a hedging perspective for 2015 and beyond.
The Strip yesterday was selling forward into 2016 at under $60 a ton and we think that's a pretty good and attractive opportunity all of which will position us well we think for the foreseeable future with respect to input cost.
And on the hedging side our strategy is to capture any downside benefits while we're also limiting any risk on the upside.
So that's our approach on hedging environment.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
I heard that Ford speech as well as you did and it was very insightful as to why you don't use a little aluminum car compared to a truck unless car starts hauling cargo but the question that I have for you is what's the breakdown of your contract business between cars and trucks? I don't know that we've ever said that publicly so I don't know that I'd go there today.
Obviously the F-150 and the S-series are very important to us very important to everybody as the biggest selling vehicle but I think over time I think America has really moved towards trucks and SUVs and minivans and so forth.
So I suppose we're tracking whatever that mix is in the market overall Chuck.
I don't think we'd be necessarily any different than that.
And another area on the stainless side the 409 for exhaust systems do you have any kind of number of how much would be used in let's say a hybrid vehicle compared to a standard gasoline engine? Looking around the room and I don't think we have a specific number for you.
Obviously our focus there is continue to help with all of the higher temperature exhaust system requirements and sort of meet the efficiency needs and the environmental needs there.
In fact one of the things that we're going to spend more money on this year is up that Mansfield the 400 series capital if you will of America where we're putting in more money into the AOD just to be able to make more and to serve that marketplace but I don't know that we have a good breakout for you but we'll give that some thought when we response in the future.
And then finally any guesstimates of how much of the orientated steels go into an electric vehicle and the motors or what have you compared to obviously a standard car? For us we're in the power generation and distribution business.
That would be in the 90% plus kind of thing.
So it's relatively small portion but again it's part of our overall plan to continue to grow with that marketplace and we've had some meaningful growth but we're still by and large serving the energy distribution sector.
Our next question comes from Matt Murphy of UBS.
Your line is now opened.
Just a question I guess more on near-term what we've seen with steel prices falling you talked about your attorneys looking at a case and commenting on injury experience to-date I guess what do you think holds back the timing there and absent any sort of trade filings what do you think you can do to help tighten up the market is there a maintenance that you would consider bringing forward this year or anything in that respect? I think first off we're observing and reacting accordingly as an independent company making independent decisions about production and sales.
We're doing what makes sense for AK Steel but we are obviously observing this ugly pricing I'll be kind and use those words but our sense is frankly that carbon spot pricing is at or near the bottom as the gap between U.S.
and foreign offerings has narrowed considerably $100 plus really off the peak to now and about $70 off levels from maybe three months ago rather.
Demand is solid as I mentioned before service and inventories are in line at about 2.6 months as I mentioned versus maybe 2.5 months historically.
So the trade case issue we have to look at that given what's going on here in our marketplace and really the key to us is fair trade that fair trade as opposed to free trade.
There is a huge difference.
And really we have to stand tall as an industry and as a country.
Imports have to be fairly traded not dumped.
We either stand for something or we stand for nothing and I'm confident that as other economies have struggled and are continuing to struggle they view America as the dumping ground keeping their mills operating abroad employing their people shifting their excess production here.
So no doubt we've been injured by the excess of imports.
We don't have a particular timeline but I'm obviously encouraged our inside and external counsel to get about the business of wrapping this up so that we can seek relief.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
The first question that I had was on the free cash flow.
You guys had mentioned that you expect AK to be cash flow positive in 2015 and I was just wondering what factors that included is that just EBITDA less interest less CapEx does that include your pension payments? Starting maybe with that one and Roger can chime in obviously as we mentioned we have no further required investments in Magnetation.
That's $100 million delta year-over-year.
The pension contributions are down $150 million.
There's a variety of other things OPEB and so forth.
And there's nearly a $300 million delta just in terms of the uses and obviously as I mentioned while we haven't given annual guidance we expect a better year.
So all those things taken together put us in that wonderful position of being free cash flow positive.
I think that obviously begs the question then of what are you going to do with your cash? We're obviously spending a little bit more into the business for a variety of we think very good reasons to position us well for the future.
I'd say in terms of other priorities we have many opportunities here and our board really can't consider those and this is really the purview of the board that we obviously levered up substantially to get from the 2008 timeframe to today so delevering the balance sheet would be one priority advantaging our shareholders would be another priority as we look at that particularly in the stock price where it's currently at and then finally continuing to invest serve our customers in the future with the products that they need.
Those are sort of three buckets and categories all very important I wouldn't necessarily put one ahead of the other at this point.
And I'd also comment as you know we have levers we've put in place and we have the [borrowing] [ph] that we just settled on and made the final payments there so our retiree benefit payments will drop from '14 to '15.
And the other key item when you're looking at operating cash flow is our working capital.
We were a big use of cash in 2014 and we plan for that to be a source of cash in 2015.
Okay thanks.
And then the second question I had was back on the iron ore price side to approach the issue again so you mentioned that you still had 70% of your iron ore that's purchased in the open market at IODEX plus some sort of premium which I think makes sense to everybody we know that to actually get ore shipped in pellet form cost a little bit more but my question is is there a floor on how low your iron ore cost could go because I think the perception in the market is that you guys especially versus integrated peers should benefit significantly as iron ore prices go down but as we see the IODEX drop and drop and drop let's say it goes to 60 or 65 is there a floor to the benefit that you guys will have because for example at least on the 30% for Magnetation there is a limit to how little they can charge you for iron ore before they start burning cash should we think about it in that way or can the 70% at least that's going through IODEX go down as far as IODEX goes down? The further down it goes the more money we make.
There is no floor with respect to our external contracts period.
With respect to Magnetation as we mentioned before obviously their costs are their costs and particularly they are a little bit higher as they ramp-up.
We'll be supportive of them to the extent it makes sense.
But net-net putting those two things together AK Steel will clearly benefit if the IODEX continues to fall.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now opened.
Congrats on all the improvements you guys are making.
Just a quick question first what is the cost of those collars that you guys have put in place? In regards to iron ore? Yes.
As I indicated part of our strategy has been to be able to avoid or to enjoy the downside as it goes down and to cap it so it would go up.
So we currently have about 2.3 million tons of iron ore hedge at the end of the year and about 70% of that is related to 2015 hedges.
So we have that portion hedged.
Part of that will be under swaps.
Those we kind of do over time we layer them in over time so it's kind of a moving target each week each month as we layer those levels on.
As we continue through the year we'll continue to add levels to it.
And then in regards to the options we have out there that is more probably set that we would be protected for those fortune if they would go if the IODEX would take up north of 70 the [low] [ph] 70s that we would be protected from that side but the goal there is that we benefit as the IODEX falls if it continues to fall.
Alright thanks for that Roger.
Then you indicated just to focus in a little bit more on Dearborn could you give us an idea of where your mix was in the fourth quarter i.e.
percentage of hot-rolled versus value-add and how you see this trending over the next couple of quarters? For the fourth quarter our value-added mix was about 74%.
That compares historically we were running earlier this year around 85%.
So we have reduced a little bit.
There's two factors there that are driving that of course the addition of Dearborn and the change in the automotive platform especially with the Ford F-150 was part of it but another big driver is that we're producing more up there we're getting more production out and also going forward we have all of our blast furnaces mainly Ashland running full and not having the outages.
So we were a little bit light I'll say on hot-rolled in 2014 and I would see it being a little bit heavier in '15 just because we'll have more production along with the increased production out of Dearborn.
Our final question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Regarding you're on a tailwind year-on-year curious and there's number of moving parts there in inventory hedges and things have you taken a look at what price of [hot-rolled] [ph] just as a benchmark it would take for basically that cost tailwind to be fully offset? Just trying to get a sense of what the downside is.
Did you look at that at all? No we have not.
I would comment there's really a few factors that would drive our cost structures.
One would be what happens with scrap.
That's the biggest driver because that has a very strong correlation with hot-rolled pricing so where that goes.
As we indicated we have seen the IODEX drop so we see lower iron ore pricing.
Year-over-year as you know last year we were hit pretty hard with higher energy cost because of the polar vortex so we expect lower natural gas and electricity cost.
So we see year-on-year having a substantial improvement.
Coal and coke is also down.
But the key driver is going to be what's happening on the scrap side that will be driving it and the volumes that we're getting out.
Okay.
And can you comment to the extent that [indiscernible] electrical steel-based pricing changing into '15? If the market is improved I think there's a lot of upside potential from here.
The order intake rates are a lot better than they've been and I think some of that again is driven by what's going on with housing and with non-res but we're encouraged by that marketplace we're seeking higher prices we've succeeded in certain cases and we are going to go after more.
Higher prices and greater volume those are really music to our years and that's the opportunity we think in the specialty steel side of our business.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Thank you very much.
Again as we sign off on today's call I'm going to thank all of you for your interest in and your continuing support of AK Steel.
2014 as I mentioned was a year of progress.
It was a year of improvement a year we haven't seen in some time but we look for a much better year this year in 2015 as we accelerate our progress with better production lower raw material and energy costs and a full year of Dearborn offset to some extent by anticipated lower carbon steel spot market prices.
But rest assured we are driven to succeed in 2015 and we hope that you'll join us in about three months for our first quarter 2015 conference call.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger Newport Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk Reich Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Doug Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our first quarter 2015 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release which was issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events to the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the Company's Web-site at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our call today.
The first quarter of 2015 was certainly more challenging than we had anticipated.
That’s because of the extremely high level of imported carbon steel products unfairly traded imports in our opinion that hit our country shores at the expense of domestic production and shipments.
As a result at AK Steel we produced and sold less steel in the carbon steel stock market than we had intended.
And that steel which we did sell in the stock market was at decidedly lower selling prices than we had expected.
If injuries and harm are key conditions for bringing and winning trade cases let me be clear AK Steel was injured and harmed significantly in the first quarter of 2015.
Despite a very solid effort from our employees in the quarter we generated only $57 million of adjusted EBITDA down from about a $117 million in the prior quarter.
And we reported an adjusted net loss of $0.28 per diluted share of common stock compared to net income of $0.14 per diluted share excluding special charges for the fourth quarter of ’14.
The sequential quarter decline in EBITDA generation was primarily due to lower stock market shipments and selling prices as well as the impact of lower operating rates.
The fact that we’re able to perform at the level we did in the first quarter of 2015 in the face of a tsunami of imported carbon flat-rolled products is attributable for hard work our employees and the flexibility of our operations and our supply chain partners.
Once again the men and women of AK Steel succeeded in producing superior quality steel products and they provided excellent customer service as well and they did it all with great attention to our highest priority of the company safety.
Speaking of safety Coshocton Middletown Rockport Zanesville Mt.
State Carbon and AK Tube Walbridge each tied their best ever quarterly safety performance records with zero OSHA-recordable cases.
Our recently acquired facility in Dearborn Michigan which has made substantial progress in terms of safety over the past several months since we acquired it established a new first quarter record of only three OSHA recordables.
On a special note I want to congratulate our Zanesville Works employees who were recognized for outstanding safety performance by the Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation during the quarter.
Zanesville has now worked over 4 300 days without incurring a single lost work day or restricted work entry.
And Rockport Works set a new OSHA recordable record of 1 333 clear days.
These are fantastic accomplishments but it doesn’t stop there.
In the first quarter our Middletown Works co-plant received Max Eward Safety Award from the American Coke and Coal Chemicals Institute.
The award recognizes the safest coke making facilities in America during 2014.
Middletown operated the entire year of 2014 without a single OSHA recordable injury as did two other coke facilities that are members of ACCCI.
This recognition marks the fifteenth time in the past eighteen years that an AK Steel coke plant has received the award with the Middletown coke plant being an eleven time recipient of the award just outstanding.
Exceptional safety results go hand in hand with superior quality performances.
We continue to take great pride in and our customers continue to greatly appreciate our efforts in terms of quality.
Based on the results of the Jacobson survey for the first quarter of 2015 AK Steel once again ranked number one in carbon steel among our integrated steel competitors in terms of quality service and on time delivery and we’re placed first in overall customer satisfaction as well.
Likewise on the specialty steel front according to the Jacobson survey results we ranked number one in terms of both quality performance and customer service.
These are high honors indeed given by our valid customers whose opinions matter most.
In both good times and bad times in the steel business AK Steel’s values continue to point us in the right direction keeping our people safe and serving our customers better than any other steel maker regardless of market conditions are two of our company’s highest priorities.
Speaking of customers and markets when they comment on the automotive market for both carbon and specialty the carbon is flat market and then the electrical steel market.
Automotive continues to be a good news story 2015 NAFTA light-vehicle production is projected to be 17.4 million units up about 2.5% compared to 2014.
Importantly AK Steel’s automotive shipments have grown at a rate higher than the increased observed in the overall automotive market.
As it has been in the case for the past several years we continue to gain market share in the automotive sector.
We expect this trend to continue for both carbon and for specialty products.
Consistent with our strategy of growing automotive shipments during the first quarter we shipped more tons to the automotive sector than we have in a decade since the first quarter of 2005.
In full disclosure our first quarter 2015 shipments benefited from the inclusion of automotive shipments coming from our new Dearborn plant something we obviously did not own a decade ago.
None the less our automotive shipments continue to be very solid.
In fact first quarter 2015 sales also included record auto crone [ph] shipment so sufficed to say that automotive remains a very strong market for us with significant growth potential as we continue to make headwind in qualifying products with automotive customers with the new Dearborn Works coating line [ph].
On the flip side of the coin however carbon’s spot market business conditions remain very challenging.
Imports foreign offerings that we believe are being subsidized by foreign governments and dumped in America are off to a highest level in the past quarter century.
The estimated market share for finished steel imports was an incredible 34% for the first quarter of 2015.
Since the decade began finished imports have generally held between about 22% to 24% of the market.
However by late 2013 imports began to rise with 2014 imports claiming about 28% of the market and now the imports are taking more than a third of the market.
The largest offshore suppliers or perhaps I should say vendors for the first quarter of 2015 include South Korea Turkey and China although there were many others on the list.
As imports have escalated to title wave proportions especially over the past three months we’ve seen a substantial decline in the spot market pricing within the United States.
Over the past six months benchmark capital carbon steel prices according to the CRU have declined by nearly $200 per ton in the spot market from about $651a ton in October of 2014 to roughly $454 per ton in April of 2015.
Again that’s more than a 30% decline in a six month period but true and we’re living it.
Even for companies such as AK Steel with a high level of contract business and value added sales as well as fewer tons to sell under the spot market the impact of what we believe are unfairly traded imports remains a very big deal.
What our industry needs now and really what it always needs but what it especially needs now is fair trade not free trade but fair trade.
We need to actively enforce our existing trade laws.
We’re working closely with our legislators especially senators Brown and Portman from Ohio to address this matter and to modify our trade laws going forward to make it easier and faster to bring trade cases.
The steel business in the United States is paying a severe price for the U.S.
economy being stronger than that of the rest of the world.
Arguably we’re a victim of our nations own economic recovery.
That fact coupled with the strengthening U.S.
dollar has made the United States a highly attractive destination for finished steel imports.
We understand that the domestic steel industry continues to gather and to analyze the necessary data to support the filing of cases to address on fair trade.
We support strongly support the filing of those cases and we believe that the industry is growing increasingly closer to their filing.
We hope the petitions to initiate the trade cases can be filed before the industry suffers much more damage.
Now I’m going to offer a few comments on our electrical steel business.
Our first quarter of 2015 NAFTA Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel or GOES product shipments were about 4% higher than that of the fourth quarter of 2014 as the overall housing market continues to exhibit signs of recovery.
On the GOES export front exports of GOES product increased quarter-over-quarter by double digit percentage as global market conditions improved somewhat with the Europe’s recovery still in a low gear we’ve focused our attention mostly on other parts of the world that are recovering more rapidly.
We’re also now able to compete once again in China with GOES products after enduring five years of unfair and inappropriate actions that effectively kept our electrical steel out of the Chinese market.
AK Steel’s did once again able to serve our valid customers in China with high quality GOES products.
We welcome the recent decision by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce also known as MOFCOM to terminate antidumping and anti subsidy measures on imports of GOES products from U.
S.
producers.
Speaking of China the decline in Chinese infrastructure growth and spending has had a dramatic effect on the price of commodities especially iron ore.
The IODEX index iron ore has fallen by nearly 40% in the past six months and fins itself nearest lowest point in a decade.
For reference sake the IODEX averaged just over $80 in October of 2014 and the current average month-to-date for April 2015 is $50.
Overall a falling IODEX and declining iron ore prices are very good things for AK Steel that’s because unlike our competitors who are more vertically integrated than AK Steel we buy about 70% of our iron ore requirements on the open market.
And it’s a very good time arguably the best time in the past decade to be short in terms of iron ore from a vertical integration stand point.
Although all of our pellet supply agreements have an IODEX component we emphasize that it is not a one-to-one relationship in all cases.
Some of our agreements contain pricing adjustments based on other indices as well as the IODEX component.
Accordingly we do not enjoy a dollar- for-dollar benefit as the IODEX declines.
In the case of our pellet off-take arrangement with Magnetation LLC the pellet pricing is directly tied to the IODEX index and that has made life extremely difficult for Magnetation LLC in this current iron ore pricing environment.
On March 31of this year we fully impaired the value of our investment in Magnetation LLC.
Although we’re disappointed that we needed to do so the impairment was driven by several factors which included the significant market decline in global iron-ore pellet pricing during the first quarter of 2015 to multi-year lows; a reduced long-term forecast for iron ore prices; the negative cash flow effects on Magnetation LLC’s results; and Magnetation LLC’s balance sheet challenges including its high debt load and inability to raise additional capital.
Magnetation LLC’s business and operations face significant challenges in this very difficult environment as they continue to ramp up their pellet plan.
We expect to continue to receive pellets from Magnetation LLC in the short term.
As for the longer term it’s certainly possible that the challenges faced by Magnetation LLC could let me emphasize could result in a temporary or permanent disruption in their supply of iron ore pellets to the Company.
However we currently purchase pellets from multiple third-party suppliers and we believe if need be that we could replace the Magnetation LLC pellets with supply from existing or new third-party suppliers.
We also could purchase more slabs if necessary to make up for any potential deficiency in the supply or iron ore pellets.
To be clear in either instance we do not anticipate any reduction in AK Steel’s production levels nor in our ability to serve the needs of our valued customers.
There could however be an impact on our costs if we have to replace the Mag LLC pellets either with pellets from a third party or with purchasing slabs.
Let me conclude my prepared remarks ladies and gentlemen by providing brief comments on two of our most recent investments our acquisition of Dearborn Works last Fall and our announcement this Spring of a new research and innovation center in Middletown.
First on Dearborn we continue to make solid progress in integrating Dearborn Works into AK Steel.
Really delighted with the progress that we’ve made from a safety quality and a productivity standpoint.
The safety and quality gains to date at Dearborn have been exceptional and when market conditions support running the facility at higher rate the productivity gains at Dearborn have been equally remarkable.
That said weaker than anticipated market conditions that I’ve discussed earlier have caused us to reduce production at Dearborn Works to match demand.
We’re on pace to meet all of our cost based synergy targets that are unrelated to production levels.
For those synergies that are a function of increased production obviously we’re short of that goal or those numbers for now.
We continue to view the Dearborn Works acquisition very favorably.
Dearborn represents and outstanding growth platform for AK Steel in terms of our sales our production and our profit growth.
It really also represents a great way to meet the increasing needs of our automotive and other customers to enhance our operating flexibility and to lower our costs.
Meeting the evolving needs of our customers is exactly why we announced a new research and innovation center on February 23 underscoring our strong commitment to the future of steel making in America.
We’ll be investing about $36 million financed with a long term lease to mitigate the cash impact to construct a new research and innovation center located in Middletown Ohio the home of our largest plant and our current research facility.
This new research and innovation center will be world-class in nature and provide a new home for our talented researchers engineers and scientists to develop innovative products such as true third generation advanced high strength steels to help automotive customers design lighter more fuel efficient vehicles that maintain superior strength and safety performance; high efficiency electrical steels that will help our nation’s energy grid become more energy efficient; a new stainless steel that offers superior corrosion resistance for a wide variety of applications.
So I hope you get the sense that our new research innovation center will be very customer focused.
Groundbreaking is expected to take place later this quarter.
We’re targeting completion of the facility for the fourth quarter of 2016.
AK Steel’s predecessor company Armco had been known for product and process innovation for decades.
Among other things we developed a continuous rolling mill process and we developed the first electrical steels produced anywhere in the world.
Going forward we look to build on this great tradition and we’ll now have the facility to do just that.
Before turning the call over to Roger to cover our quarterly financial results after which Roger Kirk Reich and I will take your questions I’d like to take just a moment to thank Dave Horn for his extraordinary service.
To AK Steel Dave has capably served as my right hand man if you will for more than a decade he has tackled every assignment with great resolve and delivered terrific results.
Dave is a brilliant lawyer and a business man he’s a winner.
But at Dave’s election he’s retiring for the Company and his last day of service at AK Steel will be May 31 and since this is his last conference call I know he’ll miss those as well.
But on behalf of the Board of Directors the senior Management team and really all of us at AK Steel Dave we want to thank you for a job well done for our Company and for our shareholders.
And thanks to all of you ladies and gentlemen for your attention.
With that let me turn it over to our Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported an adjusted net loss of $50 million or $0.28 per diluted share for the first quarter 2015 which was in line with our guidance of a loss of $0.23 to $0.28 per diluted share.
Adjusted net loss excludes a onetime non-cash charge in the first quarter of $256million or $1.44 per share relates to the whole impairment of our 49.9% equity interest in Magnetation LLC.
The impairment was driven by the significant decline in the IODEX that had occurred since early 2014 and accelerated in the first quarter of 2015.
Magnetation’s iron ore pellets are priced off the IODEX and therefore a lower IODEX results in lower sales for Magnetation.
As a result Magnetation retained a financial advisor in March 2015 to assist them in evaluating alternatives to improve liquidity.
I would like to reiterate that the Magnetation impairment is a non-cash charge.
Magnetation’s outstanding indebtedness is non-recourse to AK Steel.
We’re not required to make any additional capital contributions for future investments in Magnetation and we have not guaranteed any obligations of Magnetation LLC.
Turning back to our results for the quarter in response to poor carbon steel market condition during the first quarter we accelerated a planned outage at our Middletown Works steel shop from the second quarter to the first quarter.
Including that outage we incurred $14 million of costs associated with planned major maintenance outages in the first quarter of 2015.
This compares to planned outage costs of $42 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 which included $31 million to reline the hearth of the Ashland blast furnace.
Our shipments of 1 750 500 tons for the first quarter of 2015 represented a decrease of 260 000 tons or about a 13% reduction compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 which was in line with our guidance.
The lower level of overall shipments in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter was chiefly the result of lower carbon spot market shipments primarily to the service center market.
This decrease is a result of excess fuel supply in the United States which has resulted from the substantial increase in imports.
However as Jim mentioned overall steel demand remains good in the United States and our carbon and stainless shipments to the automotive market remained strong in the first quarter of 2015.
Our average selling price for the first quarter was $999 per ton which was in line with our guidance.
Despite encountering much lower carbon steel spot market prices in the first quarter our average selling price increased slightly compared to the fourth quarter.
This was due mostly to a richer product mix consisting of a higher percentage of value added shipments in relation to total shipments for the quarter.
Revenues for the first quarter totaled $1.75 billion.
This was roughly $250 million or 12% lower than our fourth quarter sales and once again was mostly due to the combination of reduced carbon steel spot market shipments and pricing.
While the costs particularly for carbon scrap and iron ore pellets decreased in the first quarter but they did not decrease as quickly as spot market prices deteriorated during that same period.
In the first quarter we recorded a LIFO credit of $17.1 million which was $11.8 million higher than our LIFO credit of $5.3 million for the fourth quarter again primarily driven by lower raw material costs.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the Magnetation impairment charge and a non-controlling interest consisting primarily of SunCoke Middletown that are in our operating results.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2015 was $57.5 million or $33 per ton.
This compares to a negative EBITDA of $2.8 million for the first quarter of 2014 and EBITDA of $117 million for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Thus we have made substantial improvements year-over-year but the foreign steel imports has definitely harmed us on a sequential quarter basis.
Now turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statements for the first quarter of 2015 our capital investments totaled approximately $28 million compared to about $42 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Typically we are users of cash flow working capital in the first half of the year and the first quarter of 2015 was typical in that regard as working capital was a use of cash of approximately $44 million during the quarter.
And we ended the first quarter of 2015 with total liquidity of $807 million.
As we have previously disclosed we anticipate substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014 for a variety of reasons including substantially lower pension funding requirements.
I would like to provide you an update on our outlook for pension funding requirements are even lower than our farthest guidance.
Based upon the analysis of our independent actuary our pension funding requirements for 2015 have dropped from $35 million to $25 million.
We funded $1 million in the first quarter and the remaining amount will be contributed in the third quarter of this year.
More importantly based upon our current actuarial assumptions and pension funding regulations our independent actuary currently estimates that we will have no pension funding requirement in either 2016 or 2017.
I also want to take a moment to update you on our Dearborn cost based synergies.
We’ve been very pleased with our progress on synergies and the savings from items such as quality improvements transportation benefits overhead reductions and yield enhancements and they’re all on track.
We achieved nearly $10 million of synergies in the first quarter of 2015.
This would have been higher had we not had to reduce our operating levels as a result of the surge of steel imports.
Despite the market challenges we continue to make great progress in realizing the benefits of our Dearborn acquisition.
Thus we are at a solid run rate to kick of f 2015 and we’ll be continuing to identify additional opportunities.
We also expect to eventually obtain the volume related cost synergies when the market conditions improve.
Taking all this into consideration we continue to be very well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations going forward.
Turning to our outlook for the second quarter of 2015 as is our practice we plan to provide financial guidance in June.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would now be happy to take your questions.
We will now begin with the question and answer portion of our conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Timna Tanners of Bank of America please go ahead with your question Hey Good morning guys.
I was kind of surprised that there was so much attention at the beginning of the call to imports and all the trade case commentary when you have a price hike announced today in the industry and imports are falling substantially.
So I was wondering if there's something I'm missing about what drives your earnings because it seems like it tends to be more about the value add.
And in light of that I actually wanted to ask a little bit more on secondarily about stainless.
You didn't talk about stainless much and electrical.
With the trade cases or the trade action done in Europe to block imports of electrical and stainless will that result in more tons coming to the US on the specialty side? I would just emphasize that our primary market is automotive which includes carbon and also the ferritic stainless and electrical steel are improving.
We’re not big players in OCTG although one could argue that our stock is being pummeled relative to others who are big in that space.
Our operations are running well; raw materials and energy prices near decade lows; we’ve got our own cost reduction programs; Dearborn Works.
A full year of that and the synergies our cash needs are low - on and on but the tail that’s wagged the dog here and the point that we were trying to make and the significant effect it’s had on pricing is really significant to us.
Even though it’s not a huge part of our business it’s caused us to go from making money to losing money and continues to be a problem for us.
We’ve actually grown our participation in the spot market to a greater extent with Dearborn until we moved a lot of that product into the higher value added and then to contract space.
So I think it’s important to sort of recognize it for what it is and the terms that we’ve used the tidal wave the tsunami the flood of imports are like nothing we’ve seen in recent memory and it has hit us hard over a period of a quarter or two.
I guess it’s for those who wish to forecast such things as to the direction of imports and the direction of pricing to come.
We had not yet caught up with our competitor issuing a price increase announcement.
Obviously we look at our own order book our own order intake rates our own product mix and evaluate for ourselves the appropriate timing of price increases which we’re doing.
I think it was just important for us to put into context what it was that drove the results and our standing all those other good things and the excitement that we have about that aspect of the business.
In particular in stainless and electrical that’s really good business for us.
We are growing in those spaces.
As a reminder to those of you who may not follow that closely AK Steel is not just a carbon player.
We’re also a player in the specialty arena which for us consists of both stainless and electrical steels and then within stainless of course there is the 400 series the auto chrome business which we’re a big player in.
It’s a very good business it’s growing consistent with what’s happening in automotive.
And then there is the - another segment would be lot of the products we make [indiscernible] and that’s outstanding business.
Then there’s the commodity space which is a little bit of a fly wheel for us and not a big part of our business but overall that’s doing quite well notwithstanding some issues we’ve had in terms of a trade case that went the other way against us.
And then in electrical which is really we aren’t going with the - That market has improved.
We’ve seen a lot of good things going on there as it relates primarily to the housing market to a lesser extent to non-residential construction as that market is definitely showing signs of improvement.
So all those things I think are moving in the right direction and we’re excited about that.
And overall demand is certainly strong but it’s that displacement of those other tons that has caused us to go from shipping.
Two million tons in the fourth quarter to a 1.75 million here in the first quarter and the effect that has on a heavy fixed cost business like ours on our operations.
We don’t run as well but certainly when we have to throttle back blast furnaces and set down lot of iron ore and other things.
So that’s why we made such a big deal of it till now.
Okay I get it.
So specifically on the European trade actions do you expect that will divert tons from Asia or elsewhere to the US on stainless and electrical? And then on ATI's conference call they mentioned the possibility of a stainless trade action.
Can you comment on those? There’s a lot of trade activity going on obviously.
I think the most recent is we just heard today there is a European Union action on electrical steel.
Our view of that is we’ve actually been shifting a fair amount of international production to places other than Europe.
But I think what remains to be seen is really the product that our customers want.
Is it in fact in electrical steel form? Is it in core form? There may be many other opportunities to continue to serve that market but we’ve certainly seen strengthening.
We’ve seen prices going up internationally and outside of Europe per se for the most part but that’s encouraging news to us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Jim.
Hello Mike Look for a couple of questions.
First just on timing timing lags on how you realize pricing in your income statement and results.
Could you go through that because I know you obviously have a bigger portion in - of your business on fixed prices and contracts and these contracts eventually roll over? Can you talk through that? Because you may have been protected a bit on the say first quarter results and even some on the second quarter results but as those contracts come up for renewal you are faced with lower prices I assume then you kind of registered on them in the first quarter results.
Is that a fair statement? And could you work us through how those timing lags go? There are moving pieces and parts to this you know Mike in all aspects of our business.
I think you’re referencing specifically our contract sales.
I’d ask Roger to comment when I finish my thoughts on that subject maybe just on the lagging effect of some of the raw material prices as well especially given the Vale pricing model and the four moth lag there which can have a very very favorable effect to our Company as we look out to the remaining quarters of the year.
Again as a reminder and refresher for everybody roughly half of our business these days is in the automotive space.
That’s virtually all contract business.
Those contracts expire at various times throughout the year that’s intentional on our part and our customers’ part.
Some have just expired and been renewed some have expired and not been renewed others will come up as the year goes on.
I think clearly there is attention paid if you were in those procurement roles and if I was tuned to what’s going on in the stock market - but we have to be clear here Mike it’s a bit of apples and oranges right.
The product is coming in by and large as a commodity type product.
It’s certainly not the kind of product that goes into make Cadillacs and Camrys and other important products that we serve and our automotive customers know that.
They really value what it is that we provide to them in terms of quality whether it’s exposed or un-exposed delivery just in time great customer service 24/7 around the clock and it’s really the relationship overall that we’ve built.
We work together in all of these things and obviously we’re not looking to either sacrifice on price or - we need to get a reasonable return on our product so we continue to invest and be there for the long term and provide them with the advanced high strength steels and the other products that they need to meet requirements and the needs of the customers that they have.
So undoubtedly it’s a discussion point it always makes for interesting discussions but it really is a different segment of the market place.
Roger do you want to comment generally about the raw material space? Sure.
In regards to the surcharge side we have some contracts that have different surcharges whether it’s for energy cost for iron ore for scrap.
We have reduced some of that exposure over time as instrument that come out there where we can hedge some of the commodities.
Our focus has been our risk management our exposure to the raw materials.
So we’ve been reducing that and as you’re aware roughly 3/4 of our business is contract business but about 1/4 of that is still subject to pricing fluctuations which will be driven by what's happening with raw materials which - it could be based on what's happening with spot market pricing or it could be based on underlying raw materials.
Our surcharge that we have we try to align those as best we can whether it's carbon or stainless or electrical products with the timing of when we consume the raw materials.
Nickeloid is not quite that way it's a little bit more current amount that you use for the surcharge so you can have a little bit of timing difference there.
But I always look at it - on the surcharges over time they should kind of equalize in a falling market be a little bit behind it from a cost basis because you have higher cost raw materials coming through and in a rising commodities market you usually have lower costs in inventory.
So just a follow-up.
Did I hear you say you won't be affected in most of your businesses in automotive on the price declines in the spot market? Well it's a different business Mike.
It's really the message I'm trying to convey it's really different business and I think as you've seen the auto business is incredibly robust.
We're on track here for the best April sales in a decade.
Analysts continue to say probably those at JPMorgan as well looking north of 17 million units this year.
It's a fantastic market to be in right now but it's a very very tough market to serve and to serve well.
We challenge ourselves to do that and we expect to get paid for it.
The outcome of those contracts I wouldn't try and really forecast right now except to say that there's any number of factors that influence those discussions; supply demand quality; our relationship; raw material and energy costs and so forth.
But this is where we excel as a supplier.
We have and we'll continue to do so and we certainly don't think our number one ranking by those customers for quality delivery and service hurts in any way.
Second question on the raw materials side.
When you're talking about the impairment on Magnetation you were trying to integrate backwards into iron ore and now with the price going down so much as you said Magnetation may not operate in the future and you may not be getting any material from Magnetation but instead you would get from the other sources.
Now at the low price of iron ore not only Magnetation may not be producing but Essar may not be producing people had said US steel was going to bring on more capacity.
They're not going to do that.
So basically the only source in the US is Cliff's or bring it from the outside the St.
Lawrence sea way which is about a $30 freight charge to get it without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies.
APRIL 28 2015 / 3:00PM AKS - Q1 2015 AK Steel Holding Corp Earnings Call through the St.
Lawrence on a $50 product.
Wouldn't that whole process if Magnetation stops supplying you wouldn't you be forced to quite a bit higher iron ore pricing in your cost structure? First of all we're certainly hopeful that Magnetation continues to be a supplier to AK Steel.
We work long and hard with them in designing sort of the perfect pellet or nearly so for our blast furnaces and we want them to succeed but clearly it's been a very very different environment.
I think the comments I was trying to emphasize is that we have flexibility; we've certainly - while we're not reaching out to others others have made numerous efforts to contact made a contact to our Company about availability of supply - again whether that's in the pellet space or in the slab space - we have nothing further really to say on that subject other than we're comfortable if not confident that supply exists that would not impact our ability to produce and to serve our customers going forward.
We're very mindful of all of the things that you say though Mike with respect to where those sources might come from and what those costs might be.
We also have benefitted very very significantly from our investment in [indiscernible].
The fact that it exists would not have occurred that is Magnetation LLC without our investment.
Now that we have made the gains that we've made elsewhere with other agreements and so forth without them and again it's our hope that we're able to find our way through this and continue to be a very very important supplier to AK Steel long term.
Thank you and our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Just sort of some help modeling electrical steel with the timing something you can maybe just walk us through.
How much electrical steel is currently going into EU? With the China market now reopening how quickly could you actually maybe move some of those tons from Europe or available capacity that you have here in the US and put that into China? Let me give you the best sense that I can.
If you back five years ago or that sort of a time frame roughly half of our electrical steel business was domestic and about half was foreign.
That has obviously shifted as a number of things have occurred.
One there's Chinese trade case that I referenced earlier whacked us pretty well; greater supply came on whether it was from China or elsewhere in the world and all of that caused a pretty significant shift to the point where roughly 75% or thereabouts of our orders were coming from NAFTA companies and customers and about 25% overseas.
Some portion of that 25% then perhaps about 50% maybe a little less than that would have been Europe focused but that also has been declining as Europe has been in the doldrums and as we've looked at opportunities that yield more benefits.
So it's really not a huge concern of ours frankly but we have fairly full order book through the second quarter and are currently involved in opening the book for the third quarter and our business on the international side is really shifting outside of Europe to say India the Middle East Turkey and as you said in China.
Having been zoned out of there we were delighted to get the recent ruling and to get some calls from Chinese customers and we've already taken orders.
I wouldn't want to put an order of magnitude as to how that might grow and how fast it would grow but they're thrilled to have us back and we're thrilled to serve their needs.
Okay thanks for that.
And then maybe just another kind of follow-up on Magnetation.
How committed would you say you are to keeping that production running and I guess how amenable are you to maybe switching to some sort of a cost-plus arrangement with them? Is that the best option in your mind? Well I guess we're looking at a lot of options and having a fair amount of discussion about how to make things work.
At the end of the day probably what makes sense for them and perhaps for us would be some sort of ceiling and forward mechanism I don't know.
But again we'll leave that to those that are in those discussions.
I think that it would be good if we could reach agreement but the terms and the conditions of those agreements the devil's in the details and that as to play out.
Okay.
We'll stay tuned.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
The first question I have is sorry again on Magnetation.
It seems as though even if Magnetation had signed a contract with you guys it was based on the IODEX.
Given how low the IODEX has gone and given what the cost of production is in North America it would probably be unlikely that another producer would sign a contract that was similar.
So given that I would expect you wasn't get as good of contract terms from someone else would AK consider buying the Magnetation assets out of bankruptcy and maybe continuing to operate them that way if you couldn't reach an agreement with the existing Magnetation team about some floor to ceiling contract or something of that nature? Our view all along was that Magnetation once it reached full production and achieved all of its quality initiatives would be a very low cost producer.
I think it's still our view that that will be the case.
The pricing mechanism as I referenced earlier in my prepared remarks really tied it entirely to the IODEX.
As we all now know that's a very difficult thing for them.
It's a painful thing to impair assets.
I think we've heard repeatedly whether it's from debt holders or from stockholders concerns about overhang in cash that we might put into this.
I think clearly the message that we gave today is that we're not doing that and that we do not have an intention of buying the asset.
We've looked at that and that doesn't really make sense for us.
We still think it fits or could fit as part of our longer term strategy for raw materials and our self sufficiency and knowing that supply and all the great quality and the productivity is going to give us but again we'll work through those things as best we can with the other side.
Okay thanks and then my second question is on costs going forward and I know you guys will give guidance later on but I was pretty surprised.
In the first quarter your pricing was great because of your contract and it held up really well in a weak market but EBITDA was still I think lower than what people had initially expected just because of where costs went.
And I noted that there's some opacity around the cost side of things for you guys because you don't break down the line items.
But how can we expect the cost line to trend in 2Q? If there's not as much of a benefit maybe from contract pricing can we expect some relief on the cost side? I mean does that all to have do with shipments or can we expect additional cost relief above and beyond the outage cost of $14 million not being there? Because it seems raw materials are already down.
So are there any other big cost moves that we can expect in 2Q that might give the Company some relief if pricing takes a little bit longer to recover? Let me just say a couple of things about the first quarter.
Again it was weighed down a bit by a couple of things including the Mag.
losses which I think totaled about $16 million for our Company.
We'll no longer have to take those on our books since we've written the asset down to zero you can't go below zero.
To the extent that those losses continue that's for someone else's account not ours.
We also had significant market adjustments associated with the positions we took in iron ore forwards as well as natural gas.
One again can say whether or not that will change but certainly more recently with the IODEX coming back a bit $10 or so you can see a different result there.
Maintenance outages and other costs again those will be a variable.
I think probably saying more than that at this point Justine is beginning to give probably selective guidance and I'd be counseled by our attorneys in the room here not to do that.
We'll give it in June as we said before and Roger you want to –? Yes I just want to add a little more color to it.
If you look at our raw materials a couple of different things one on coal for example the cost went down a little bit for that but we still had inventory coming into the year so you still had a little bit higher cost inventory.
Same with all your other inventories the iron ore that's bought with along with that is bought on the Vale model so that's a four month lag.
So when you look at it at what the IODEX was in the first quarter under the Vale model would have been $79 a ton and that will continue to drop throughout at least for the next couple of quarters.
As Jim mentioned the IODEX dropped into the forties here last week it's back up into the upper fifties this week but that's been a decline.
That's a little bit of benefit there along with lower energy costs that we have seen.
So part of it is what you had in inventory when you entered the year.
You don't instantly get that benefit.
Great thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Nathan Littlewood of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Good morning thanks for the opportunity and apologies in advance this is very strange but another Magnetation one.
Can you tell us what iron ore price you used to do the impairment testing on that asset? And how does that compare to the IODEX that would be required in order to see that asset cash flow break even on an all-in basis and if we assume that their longer-term concentrate target which I believe is about $40 a ton were to be met? No comment I wouldn't give specifics of what all we went through but basically when you're looking at it you're doing it as of - it's a balance sheet day test so it's as of March 31.
As you're well aware Nathan the IODEX had dropped quite a bit especially in the month of March especially the forward curve looking out into the future it dropped quite a bit.
That's really some of the key drivers but also looking at Magnetation as they announced that they had hired an advisor to work on increasing their position.
And ultimately we have to look at the value that we have on our books and what's our ability to recover that investment once you take into account their debt load and everything that they have along with the pressures they were facing because of this significant decline in the IODEX.
Okay got it.
So if some sort of combination of like a rolling historical commodity price and perhaps a forward curve commodity price is how you would test impairment there is it fair to assume that you would use a similar process for testing carrying value of some of the steel making assets? And specifically if we use that method on steel pricing and applied to the Dearborn what might the carrying value of Dearborn look like in the latter part of this year? Well there's a question we haven't had for a while Roger.
Well I think if you look at it long term with the steel side you're looking both at pricing and raw materials.
Our raw material costs have come down substantially.
Scrap has come down iron ore has come down coal has come down scrap has come down quite a bit actually this year as you're well aware along with iron ore.
Pricing has trended with it of course.
Imports are putting some pressure on that so it's looking at all those when you're looking at steel assets still I'd remind you it's not just - we're looking at it in total we don't look at each plant separately.
We didn't buy Dearborn to be a standalone entity.
Dearborn is an addition to our capabilities to help us serve the iron markets especially on the automotive side and those that require high strength steels etc.
So it's actually a growth platform for us.
That's how we feel and positioned Dearborn.
So we're not looking that as a standalone we look at our steel assets in total.
And also in steel assets we do stainless electrical and carbon so we have a variety of products and we have opportunities to move that mix around depending on the market conditions.
I think we still feel very good I know I do and I believe our Board does that we got a fantastic deal at some $690 million which is probably about $0.30 on the dollar of what was invested; facility to get a brand new automotive grade coating line; a recently relined blast furnace.
It's a terrific facility nearly the size of our Middletown Works; gives us enormous flexibility; could not be duplicated in my view for $4 billion to $5 billion.
So I think we're good with the carrying value and good with the outlook.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Jim.
First question again on Magnetation I just wanted to clarify something a statement that you made.
Are you saying that you won't under any circumstance contribute any cash to the venture or is there a scenario where you would contribute something but end up with a really nice long-term contract from them with favorable terms? Is that a scenario that could play out? I suppose there are any number of scenario’s that could play out but what I do not want to do is inject uncertainty or create another cloud that are over hanging or it’s clearly not our intention to more money into Magnetation.
We’ve invested sufficiently and we are where we are.
The outcome of any agreement going forward for pellet supply could take any number of forms but we have zero desire to provide securities or cash.
It would be an arm slang [ph] transaction negotiated to the satisfaction of our company and with our board’s concurrence and I presume the same would apply to Magnetation LLC.
Okay.
And then just on the way some of these moving parts work in terms of pricing and raw material costs trying to figure out a way to simplify.
If prices were to hypothetically just stay flat from here going forward can you give us a sense at what point throughout the course of the year you would actually - that would be reflected in both your selling price and your iron ore consumed cost? Yeah in general it’s a - if you look at the timing of raw materials coming through it’s probably a three to four month time frame kind of delay if you look at the iron ore coming through.
Because when you’re buying debt when you’re buying iron ore what I bought in the first quarter that pricing is the same under the valid model for January February and March.
So bringing iron ore in in March and that would start by hitting finished product in May.
There’s less tons coming in so you could have a couple work delay there so anywhere from three to four months depending on the product.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
With U.S.
steel announcing at least a temporary closure of Granite City that's a pretty nearby mill to you.
Presumably - I don't think they've closed it yet but there's going to be some customers looking for steel supplies.
Have you gotten much of that yet? We’re aware of the Granite City situation or not sure it’s entirely closed but that’s a pretty big move.
Our sense is that relates to the market based served in oil country tubular goods for the most part but again we only know what we read.
I think it’s fair to say that we get increase from a number of sources including some of those customers.
We’ve done our own idling if not a curtailing throughout AK Steel and we’ll continue to do that as we look at our own individual situation in balance supply and demand and I suppose others could say some of our customers are going to them.
In any event it’s very competitive business out there and we want to fill the voids and the spaces where we do that best.
The other facility of interest out of Granite City is a SunCoke plant which obviously will continue to operate but if they're not going to be making any pig iron they're going to have extra coke.
Do you have any need for that coke? No we’re in good shape.
We’re in good shape really on all of our raw materials as we are buying or had bought in the first part of the year a little bit higher of pace than we have made.
So we’re in good shape.
We have regular conversation with SunCoke and others and I’m sure they may try and sell us a bit but we’re not interested.
Operator Thank you and our next question comes from Matt Murphy of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Sorry if I missed it.
Did you say anything about CapEx on the year? You talked $150 million at the start of the year.
That still the plan? Yeah Matt that’s still the plan roughly $150 million of total CapEx.
We’ve said that about 20% of that would be growth capital.
We also this year are buying some spares partly related to Dearborn where we’ve identified a couple places where we think is the right risk management program to make sure a couple of spares are there.
But $150 million is currently our target and as you know we managed that very prudently depending on how market conditions go and that capital budget as you’ve seen historically is flexible.
Sure.
And when you talk growth capital can you give any examples of project you're looking at? Yeah I would comment we’re looking at projects that lower costs improved yields or give us an opportunity to position us for whether it’s moving into different grades of steel whether it’s carbon stainless or electrical.
So it’s a variety of things that once with the return on them but sometimes they’re just small projects.
And if there is - if we see any projects as we’ve talked about any high strength steel projects as we look going forward we would you inform you on those too.
Thank you and our question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Hi Jim.
I've got a couple questions here.
So you've had a couple quarters in a row where a richer mix helped to offset a good portion of the pricing declines and in fact your average selling price was up 1% sequentially.
I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on this.
You talked about obviously bringing in stainless and electrical steel a little bit but do you expect this to continue particularly when it looks like a lot of the downward move really picked up pace and given the lags that at least the way we try to model your Company what would you say about that as we think about this looking forward? I’ll comment on the selling price side you’re correct as you saw the stock market pricing decline throughout the quarter.
So it was at its peak at the beginning of the quarter and hit a 12 point at the end of the quarter.
So that trend - you’re right on point.
That did have a benefit I’ll say to the quarter and we started out stronger and ended up weaker.
Whereas if you go into the second quarter here now the question is on is there any rebound on what happens on pricing but with that also the raw material side came down.
You’ve seen iron ore come down you saw scrap come down energy costs have remained relatively low.
So selling price is a factor but so is the cost side and also using up some of the higher cost raw materials getting those to our system is beneficial also.
But on the pricing side as Jim mentioned of what’s going on in stainless electrical come of that is just driven on especially stainless side [ph] is what happened with nickel and chrome so it’s really surcharge basis.
Do you guys think that you can mitigate given these - the favorable shifts occurring on the cost side of the ledger do you think you can mitigate a lot of that slippage in selling prices quarter on quarter? I think we’ll be giving guidance if we were to go too far down that path except to say that we are all in every day with all of our being to try and lower costs.
We’re benefiting as Roger said from the raw materials and energy space.
It’s really a question of how far down if we come how quickly does it come back and what percentage of our sales really are in that lower end of the market place for us.
So there is too many pieces and parts there Tony to really or playing [ph] with a degree of specificity except to say that we’re trying to make very wise decisions about what we make what we sell looking carefully at what we project our costs are going to be.
Fair enough.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of maybe operating rates at Dearborn maybe utilization during the quarter anything you can give us a sense there.
And I was intrigued by the announcement by Ford the decision to throttle back F-150 production.
I just was wondering what your read is on that.
On the utilization rates we’ve totaled back several percent from fall obviously quarter-on-quarter our shipments were down about 12% fourth quarter to first quarter.
And we have adjusted our blast furnace rates accordingly.
[indiscernible] an outage that we had scheduled for the second quarter in Middletown into the first quarter try to make prudent use of that time but really that’s how we’ve made our adjustment to utilization.
Just on the F-150 I guess since you’ve raised the question.
Obviously it’s been a success to date.
We love our friends at Ford we love providing them with a lot of steel we want really for all of our customers to succeed.
We want them to do it with steel.
Really don’t have any particular comment about them straddling back at all.
I think we’re encouraged in general in the market place by those which is a vast majority who are keeping it steel and our focus is the company is on continuing provide them with the products that allow them to keep it steel namely the advanced high strength steels and we have been for some long period of time here really and great discussions with all of our automotive customers about exactly what do they need and what do they want us to do and we are poised to proceed in that regard and hopefully will in the very near future have some things to announce that will position us very very well for the long term in serving [indiscernible] of our automotive customers.
Thank you and our final question comes from David Gagliano of BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Excellent.
Thank you for squeezing my question in.
I just have two questions.
One is a clarification question and the second one is just related to some previous commentary.
My clarification question I heard the answer earlier regarding the lag on the cost side which is pretty clear.
But I didn't quite get the answer on the lag on the pricing side.
Is there a way to give us a framework on when we should see if prices stay flat the full effect of the decline in pricing? That's my first question.
And then my second unrelated question previous commentary I believe was aiming to be free cash flow positive for the year for 2015.
Is that still the target? Those are my two questions.
Thanks.
You want to take the first and I’ll take the second.
Sure on the pricing side on the light the spot market that’s usually pretty quick as the market goes down what’s happening [ph] is as Jim said whether or not we choose to sell into that market or not depending what our cost structure is and what the pricing structure is and that’s how we look at it as if whether it makes sense for AK Steel or not.
In regards to any other light this was talked early on contract pricing when you’re in a downward market you get more pressure on contract pricing than when you’re in a raising market.
Again we focused on the value add that we provide to the customers you did not see usually a direct - you see a correlation but not a dollar or anything in regards to contract pricing versus spot pricing.
So time will tell as Jim said what happens.
With contract pricing overtime we have contracts that expire throughout the year.
So with about 75% of our business being contract a force of that contract business I’ll remind everyone is more tied to I’ll call it spot market or what happens in the market or in the [indiscernible] arena.
And then the balance really is going to be driven on negotiations and what the conditions are but again we focus on the value we provide to our customers.
And we want to make sure we’re getting a fair value for the product we provide in quality and service delivery and the technical support in everything that we do for our customers.
Our ultimate goal as a management team and a board is to be great generators of cash and very prudent deployer’s of that cash that’s generated.
We certainly look to generate more cash this year than we have in a long long time presumably since 2008 the start of the [indiscernible] session.
One of the key things in terms of the deployment of that cash is that this year we have about $300 million in lower cash needs highlighted by the pension contributions that Roger spoke that were nearly $200 million and are down to about $25 million this year and the $100 million we put into Magnetation that obviously we do not have to do anything along those lines this year.
That’s huge for a company like ours; I think it’s largely been if not overlooked underplayed.
So I just emphasize that in terms of the degree to which we’re free cash flow and what we would do with all of that obviously much depends on what happens in the balance of the year.
The tons that go out the door and at what price they go out the door so I sort of stop sort of that except to say that it’s always our goal and especially this year to be free cash flow positive to give ourselves tremendous optionality in terms of what to do with that cash and that we certainly continue to expect 2015 to be a much better year than 2014.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Very briefly everyone on behalf of all of us at the company thank you to each of you for joining us on today’s call and for your continuing interest in the company.
And we want to wish you great day a better tomorrow and a quarter of [indiscernible] in your business as well ours.
Good day everybody thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Executive Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Candice.
And good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our second quarter 2015 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Doug and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
As I assess the just completed quarter two things in particular come to mind.
First dealing with what we believe are unfairly traded imports remains an incredible challenge and second despite our near-term challenges we're laying the foundation for a brighter future for AK Steel.
But that is its well it's a pretty good environment for domestic steel producers except for the imports that is.
That's because auto sales are at a near record clip housing starts while still somewhat below historically at high levels.
Well they're at a seven-year high.
Electrical steel sales and pricing are improving especially on the international front.
Our operations are running very well and steel making input costs are at decade low levels but the operative phrase is except for the imports.
The second quarter proved to be a difficult one for us due to the continued on-slot of dumped imports and the impact they had in reducing our carbon steel spot market selling prices and shipment volumes.
But despite these significant near-term challenges I'm really quite excited about our future because of the investments we've made in the areas of product and process innovation as well as our cost reduction efforts and our strategic reassessment process.
Imports that have been flooding our shores drove selling prices down by more than $200 a ton compared to prices just 9 months to 12 months ago even with the benefit of lower raw material prices and cost cutting measures this unfair erosion of our market is very difficult to overcome especially in the short run.
As most of you know a trade case covering corrosion-resistant also known as CORE that is steel had previously been filed with the International Trade Commission.
The ITC unanimously determined that core produced in China India Italy South Korea and Taiwan caused material injury to the domestic steel industry.
That's encouraging news and it's resulted in higher prices for coated steel products.
In addition I'm pleased to report that AT Steel and other domestic steel producers filed a second carbon steel trade case earlier today covering cold-rolled products.
The case which covers a broad swath of foreign producers from eight different countries asserts that imports of cold-rolled steel from these countries are causing material injury to AK Steel and to the domestic steel industry.
We look forward to this case moving through the process over the coming months towards the imposition of duties that help ensure that free trade is indeed fair trade.
And for further details on the cold-rolled trade case I'd encourage you to review the press release on this subject that we issued about a half an hour or so ago.
As for a third carbon steel trade case covering hot-rolled products let we just say stay tuned.
As we speak data has been gathered and is being assessed.
You can expect more to follow on this subject as well as on the possibility of stainless steel trade cases.
On the legislative front we are also encouraged by recent legislation that was signed into law by President Obama in June to levels of playing fields.
Thanks to the hard work of Ohio Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman as well as many others it will now be easier to prove injury in future cases and to move those cases more quickly to resolution.
Other countries continue to look out for themselves for their manufacturing basis and for their people.
In my opinion it's really about time that the United States of America looks out for its own said another way let's make things in America and let's buy American let's keep our manufacturing plants alive and let's employ American workers the most productive workforce in the world I might add to make goods in the U.S.
that are consumed both at home and around the world.
Speaking of American made it was a very strong quarter for us in terms of automotive shipments in fact it was just shy of a record automotive shipment quarter for AK Steel.
In terms of light vehicle sales frankly it's about as good as it's ever been.
Our own automotive shipments were up nearly 3% in the second quarter as compared to first quarter of 2015 and the strength of the automotive market is unquestionable.
We're doing everything we can to make sure that steel that steel remains the material of choice for automotive applications.
The product innovations that we currently have underdevelopment at AK Steel will help ensure that the product steel remains the material of choice for the vast majority of structural and exposed automotive components in the future.
Moving to specialty steel products during the second quarter we also experienced an increased sales of our electrical steel products.
As energy efficiency standards begin to take effect globally coupled with the growth in the domestic housing sector with housing starts reaching a seven year high in June demand for high efficiency grain or in electrical steel is accelerating.
In April we were pleased to learn the China had finally listed its duties on grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES imports from the United States this represents a very large potential market for our high permeability products and qualification trials are already underway with multiple Chinese customers.
There's also been a trade action on the electrical steel front in Europe with the European Union recently assessing provisional duties against the U.S producers including AK Steel.
We suspect however that even after duties are assessed demand from European buyers will remain firm for our high-quality electrical steel products again that assumes that the duty stand in their current form.
Back up to the home front well carbon steel spot market selling prices remained extremely low by historical standards the trend over the past several weeks has been an encouraging one.
With steady demand and slightly declining imports pricing has bounced off the bottom and it is now experiencing an upward trend.
Our first $20 per ton price increase that was announced on April 30 has been fully realized.
And our second $20 per ton increase announced on June 15 continuous to gain traction in the marketplace.
And as import levels and the service center inventories decline which is the current trend and as more trade actions occur and take effect we anticipate further strengthening of our carbon steel spot market prices in the third quarter and throughout the second half of 2015.
Also on a positive side of the ledger our operations as I said before are running well.
Our blast furnaces have been stable and consistent but they're capable of doing much more a lot more and obviously we'd love to challenge them with more business.
That's certainly the case with our Dearborn Works blast furnace and all of our operations at Dearborn.
As we approach the one year anniversary of our acquisition of Dearborn Works we continue to make really great progress in three key areas.
First employee safety performance second product quality and third cost reductions in other words the utilization of our cost-based synergies.
Despite lower than expected production levels from depressed market conditions for the first half of 2015 cost-based synergies from Dearborn totaled more than $27 million and around pace to realize more than $50 million of synergies in the first full-year of Dearborn ownership.
It's really terrific progress and it's a credit to the entire Dearborn team which has done a fantastic job with the Dearborn integration.
I think it's worth noting that we originally expected to generate about $25 million of first year synergies.
To achieve double that amount in this market is something we feel very good about indeed.
Speaking of Dearborn during the quarter we also sold our 50% interest in Double Eagle for $25 million and we announced a $29 million investment to modify the hot dip galvanizing line at Dearborn to produce next generation coated and cold-rolled advanced high strength steels.
We really listen closely to our automotive customers and this is exactly the kind of investment that they've been encouraging us to make in order to serve their future needs.
Once the Dearborn hot dip galvanizing line upgrade project is complete we'll be on the cutting edge of next-generation products to serve automakers with lighter stronger and more formable products for years to come.
And we've also got some late breaking Dearborn news we recently received a favorable decision in a dispute with DTE Energy on an outstanding power matter of some significance so decision is expected to result and the recovery of more than $25 million and it relates to overcharges for electricity over a period of several years prior to AK Steel's acquisition of that plant.
While I certainly hope you get the sense that despite our short-term challenges AK Steel is indeed a company that's focused on its future.
At the present time we remain focused on a number of things that we can do to improve our short-term performance controlling those things over which we have control including our cost performance.
Speaking of cost really throughout the company we're benefiting from lower raw material and energy costs.
While there has been tremendous volatility especially with respect to the IODEX index for iron ore we expect to benefit from lower iron ore and energy costs which were at some of the lowest levels we've experienced in the past decade.
And also remind you that there is a lagging effect of raw material costs accordingly from a cost standpoint.
The low point has yet to be experienced or rolled through our cost of goods sold that's certainly the case for iron ore.
Speaking of iron ore I'd note AK Steel continues to receive iron ore pellets from Magnetation's pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana under the current off-take agreement.
However to be prudent we've received a number of other highly competitive proposals to supply us with iron ore pellets for both the short and the long-term.
Just to suffice to say that other iron ore suppliers are both eager and well positioned to make up any potential pellet shortfall that we may experience from Magnetation and they're willing to do so at very very competitive pricing and quality levels.
One thing is clear there is no shortage of pellets in North America or in the world for that matter manner.
Switching gears let me also take a moment to briefly comment on the subject of our labor relations.
At AK Steel we've got excellent labor relations with all of our unions including the United Steel Workers the United Auto Workers and the International Association of Machinists in fact we believe we've got some of the most competitive labor deals within the steel business.
We have no remaining expiring labor agreements at AK Steel in 2015.
New competitive labor deals have been reached at all locations where we had expiring labor agreements this year that's credit to our bargaining team and labor leaders.
In contrast a the number for our carbon and specialty steel competitors have labor deals that have either already expired such as the case of Allegheny which expired on June 30 or will expire in the next month or so as this is the case of [indiscernible] Metal and United State Steel on September 1.
No doubt the parties are hard at work to hammer out new deals that'll likely occur soon but should any of our customers find themselves in a need of more great quality carbon or specialty steel products let me simply say that AK Steel is here to meet your needs.
Prior to taking your questions I'd be remiss if I didn't provide a brief comment or two on our company's recent stock price performance.
At AK Steel we're in the value business.
Providing value-added products and services to our customers and enhancing value for the owners of our company our shareholders.
Everything we do everything we do at AK Steel is done to add value of one sort or another.
In the past couple of months however that's rather difficult to see in our stock price stock prices are the end product of a business model that generates solid earnings and cash flow.
For us it starts with running a great operation making great steel products and doing so very efficiently with comparable equipment facilities making more making better making faster and doing it safer than anyone else.
But before you can make steel customers have to order it.
We differentiate ourselves in what we do and then how we do it in our mission quite simply is to serve customers better than any other steel maker by providing the highest quality products and the best delivering customer service available period.
Running well 24x7 meeting customers' requirements on a daily basis and delivering short-term results as we invest to serve customers for the long run and generate solid long-term returns for our shareholders.
Balancing the near-term with the long-term taking care of today while investing for tomorrow to ensure the long-term viability and success of the enterprise.
But in the course of running a great operation day-in and day-out and in simultaneously investing for the future we've recognized very clearly that the world around us has changed in a significant manner and that's pressured our margins in recent years and certainly again in the second quarter of 2015.
No excuses those are just the facts.
We didn't forget how to make great steel nor did we forget how to make money.
But the combination of increased global steel capacity excess capacity that is combined with extremely low pricing driven by what we and other domestic producers view as unfairly imports as certainly pressured our profitability.
We've recognized that while we take great care of our people and our customers we must also take great care of our shareholders.
Both as a Board of Directors and as a management team that is exactly what we are focused on doing.
Accordingly we're in the midst of a critical evaluation of every part of our business every product every market and every plant to ensure that they fit for the long-term as we seek to restore sustain and grow our profitability.
Aggressively growing the top line is very important and substantially improving the bottom line is equally if not more important that's why we continue to be very focused on cutting cost.
It's something we're quite accustomed to doing at AK Steel.
In fact you might say that cost-cutting is a way of life at AK Steel.
It's not a program for a quarter or two or a year or two it is a continuous process and as a management team our approach is one of continuous improvement case in point our Dearborn acquisition worked for the past nine months.
We've achieved substantial cost-based synergies $27 million of cost-based synergies to be exact as I already mentioned but we didn't stop there.
There was another $50 million of first half 2015 cost reductions that we achieved in the business that's about 80% taking place in our operations and about 20% coming out of overhead cost reductions.
We've continued to reduce our cost by improving our product yields by optimizing our product routings by improving the efficiency of our labor by utilizing our purchasing power and by taking the opportunity to replace higher priced inputs with lower cost products just to name a few from our list of hundreds of cost savings projects.
For example we reworked the caster slab length at one of our stainless facilities to improve the yield and reduce waste.
We revised our steelmaking logic at one of our melt shops that allowed us to use more high carbon chrome which resulted in significant cost savings.
We continue to push for the use of lower-cost materials in each of our blast furnace burden and we continue to make incremental productivity gains everywhere that further reduce our costs.
Each operating plant and every staff department continues to focus on turning over every rock and being creative to find cost savings and it is working.
Our focus on reducing cost has not changed nor will it change going forward.
But depending upon the outcome of our analysis we may very well change the structure of our business as well as the products that we produce and the markets that we service.
We would do this to ensure that we generate an adequate return for our shareholders and to make sure that we're well positioned to meet the needs of our customers for decades to come.
Our weave refresher a little more than a year ago on July 21 2014 we announced the acquisition of Severstal North America's Dearborn plant in Dearborn Michigan.
On September 16 we closed on the acquisition for approximately $700 million.
And I would also note that the purchase price included about $300 million of working capital.
Upon completing the deal the largest in more than a decade for our company we were named the facility Dearborn works and it became our eighth steel plant.
It's a great growth platform for revenues and for profits.
But despite complementing our existing carbon steel operations becoming a better and stronger company as a premier North American steel manufacturer.
And despite being better position today than we were a year ago to compete and win other global steel marketplace our market capitalization over that period has declined substantially that ladies and gentlemen is both very painful and it is truly incredible and disappointing.
I want to assure you that none of us are happy about that decline least of all me.
While we cannot control the day-to-day movement in our share price obviously we can't do a number of things.
We can enhance our strategies.
We can further reduce our costs and we will.
We can do those on a host of other things to add value we can do better and I assure you we will do better for the owners of the company our shareholders.
We'll do it by focusing on those actions that improve our cash flow and de-lever the company.
This will provide us with the financial flexibility to invest in new value creating opportunities and it put us in a better position to consider repurchasing our securities especially when the market undervalues our future.
In closing let me offer just a few thank you's.
First to our people thanks to our employees for all of their continued handwork and dedication in the face of continued adversity.
There is no finer workforce to be found in the steel industry in American or the world.
Thanks to our customers for the opportunity to serve your needs we recognize that without you AK Steel would not exist we never take that for granted even for a moment.
And thanks to our shareholders who are quite well represented by our steam Board of Directors.
We appreciate the continued support of all of our shareholders as we restore AK Steel to profitability improve our cash flow and support our shares all of which should add and will add significant value over the long run.
Thanks again to all of you for joining us today and for your continued support of AK Steel better days are ahead.
Now to recap our second quarter financial results here is our Executive Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $64 million or $0.36 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2015 which was slightly better than our guidance of a loss of $0.37 to $0.42 per share.
This result compares to a net loss of $306.3 million or a $1.72 per share for the first quarter of 2015.
Our results for the first quarter of 2015 included an impairment charge of $256.3 million or $1.44 per share to fully impair our investment in Magnetation LLC.
Our shipments of a 1 811 700 tons for the second quarter of 2015 represented an increase of 61 000 tons or about a 3.5% improvement over the first quarter of 2015 and was in line with our guidance.
This increase was primarily the result of higher shipments to the carbon spot market as well as continued strength in the automotive market.
However our total shipment continued to be impacted by excess deal supplies in the United States which resulted from high levels of what we believe are unfairly traded imports.
As Jim mentioned overall steel demand remains good in the United States and our carbon and stainless shipments to the automotive market remained strong in the second quarter of 2015.
Our average selling price for the second quarter was $931 per ton this was $68 per ton lower than our average selling price for the first quarter but in line with our guidance.
Our average selling price in the second quarter decreased compared to the first quarter primarily due to a higher percentage of shipments to the carbon steel spot market in our product mix as well as a reduction in selling prices from sales contracts with variable pricing mechanisms.
Revenues for the second quarter totaled approximately $1.7 billion this was roughly $60 million or 3.5% lower than our first quarter sales.
The decrease was driven by lower spot market prices and a less rich product mix in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Raw material and energy costs were lower in the second quarter compared to the first quarter particularly for iron ore pellets carbon scrap and natural gas.
However cost for these commodities did not decrease as quickly as carbon steels stock market prices deteriorated during that same time period.
We do expect iron ore cost to decline further in the third quarter which is a benefit to us.
I would note that a key component of determining our cost of iron ore is the IODEX index which has remained low from a historical perspective.
We incurred $18.2 million of planned maintenance outage cost in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $13.6 million in the first quarter.
While we have typical plant maintenance outage is scheduled throughout the remainder of 2015 our planned outage cost for the second half of the year expected to be less than what we incurred in the first half of 2015 and we do not have any blast furnace outages planned for the balance of this year.
In the second quarter we recorded a LIFO credit of $34.8 million which compared to a LIFO credit of $17.1 million for the first quarter.
This was primarily driven by the continued decline in raw material cost.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the Magnetation impairment charge and the non-controlling interest consisting primarily of SunCoke Middletown that are in our operating results.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $47.6 million or $26 per ton.
This compares to EBITDA of $57.5 million or $33 per ton in the first quarter of 2015.
The primary driver of this decline was lower carbon steel spot market prices partially offset by lower raw material cost.
While we are not pleased with this level of performance we will continue to be focused on lowering our cost to help mitigate some of the market impacts.
Moving to our results for the first six months of 2015 revenues were more than $3.4 billion an increase of approximately $526 million or 18% compared to the first half of 2014 and this was primarily due to the acquisition of Dearborn Works.
Shipments for the first six months of 2015 were 3 562 000 tons an increase of roughly 900 000 tons or 34% compared to the first six months of 2014.
Once again primarily due to the acquisition of acquisition Dearborn Works as well as the continued strength in the automotive market.
Our average selling price for the first half of 2015 was $965 per ton a decrease of $131 per ton or roughly 12% compared to the first half of 2014.
This decrease in average selling was primarily attributable to significantly lower carbon steel spot market selling prices in 2015 which was driven by a surge in low priced foreign steel imports.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred approximately $31.8 million in planned maintenance outages cost during the first half of 2015 which was virtually identical to $31.9 million spent during the first six months of 2014.
In the first half of 2014 we also incurred unplanned outage cost of $18 million as a result of our incident at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
Also in 2014 the extreme winter weather conditions resulted in higher cost of approximately $45 million in the first six months of 2014 for items such as electricity natural gas transportation and operating costs.
At the bottom line for the first six months of 2013 we reported a net loss of $370.3 million or $2.08 per share compared to a net loss of $103.2 million or $0.76 per share for the first half of 2014.
Our results for the first half of 2015 included a charge of $256.3 million or $1.44 per share to fully impair investment in Magnetation.
Excluding this for the first half of 2015 we incurred a net loss of $114 million or $0.64 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
For the second quarter of 2015 our capital investments totaled approximately $21 million bringing our first half capital investments to about $49 million.
For the full year we anticipate capital investments of approximately $150 million.
For the first half of 2015 working capital was a source of cash of approximately $44 million typically we are users of cash for working capital in the first half of the year.
However our keen focus on working capital resulted and it being an $88 million source of cash in the second quarter.
We ended the second quarter of 2015 with a solid liquidity of $800 million almost equal to our liquidity of $807 million at the end of the first quarter despite the challenging steel market conditions we faced in the second quarter.
I would also note we were able to reduce our credit facility borrowings in the second quarter by $85 million.
This reduction in borrowings was offset by the reduction in our borrowing base that resulted chiefly from our progress in reducing working capital.
Result was at our liquidity remained relatively flat compared to the first quarter despite some very challenging market conditions.
As we have previously disclosed we anticipate substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014 for a variety of reasons including substantially lower pension funding requirements.
Our pension funding requirements for 2015 are $24.1 million.
We funded $1 million in the first quarter and the remaining $23.1 million contribution was completed in early July.
More importantly based on our current actuarial assumptions and pension funding regulations we currently estimate that we will have no pension funding requirements in either 2016 or 2017.
So we believe we are in very good position from a liquidity perspective.
We have more than sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs but more importantly are focused on lowering our cost and optimizing our operations to enhance our cash flows so that we can reduce debt levels.
I also want to take a moment to update you on our cost-based synergies related to the acquisition of Dearborn.
We are very pleased with our progress on the synergies and the savings from items such as quality improvements transportation benefits overhead reductions and yield enhancements and they are meeting or exceeding our expectations.
As Jim mentioned our year-to-date synergies through the first half of 2015 totaled approximately $27 million and this synergies total is without the benefit of volume based synergies since we actually had to reduce our operating levels due to the surge of carbon steel imports.
Despite these marketing - these market challenges we continue to make great progress in realizing the benefits of our Dearborn acquisition and we are on track to lower our operating costs there by over $50 million in 2015.
We'll be continuing to identify additional synergy opportunities and still expect to eventually obtain the volume related cost synergies when the market conditions improve.
Taking all this into consideration we continue to be very well-positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operation going forward.
Turning to our outlook for the third quarter of 2015 as is our practice we plan to provide financial guidance in September.
However at this time the company believes it is appropriate to provide the following qualitative guidance.
For a variety of reasons the company expects to generate improved results for the third quarter and the second-half of 2015 as compared to the second quarter and first-half of 2015.
Keep chief among these reasons are anticipated higher shipments improving carbon steel spot market prices increased production levels resulting a lower per ton operating cost and a continuing benefit of lower raw material cost in particular iron ore.
The company expects shipments to customers and its largest market automotive to remain strong.
In addition the company expects the level of what's the company believes are unfairly traded imports of carbon steel products will continue to decline in the second-half of the year principally because of the pending and anticipated future steel industry trade cases resulting an increased domestic steel shipments and a continuing improving trend in selling prices.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brett Levy of CRT Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Excellent job in difficult working situations.
Can you guys talk a little bit about kind of why you're optimistic about these trade cases the dollar the situation with the price of steel in China.
All of the things that you sort of thing would make this for the case? Brett thanks for the comments.
With respect to the cases as you know they took a while to bring.
The reason they took a while to bring is that the data had to be analyzed very carefully it was.
There is a great substance behind them and frankly as I said in my prepared remarks it' about time.
Let's get on with it.
These have [indiscernible] and interestingly in addition to the K system itself the legislation that's been passed it's a level the playing field really allows cases to be brought faster sort of redefine the definition of injury and get them resolved a lot quicker that is all going to be a very good thing in this particular instance with the cases that have been filed and for future cases would come.
We've already seen the benefit candidly from the corrosion-resistant case obviously prices are up for those products.
We suspect the same will be true with respect to hot-rolled products and perhaps with any good fortune very soon hot rolled cases will be coming as well but the evidence I would point to is we're already seeing a benefit.
Those are my major questions.
I'm out of the queue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Hello.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning.
I want to ask about a couple of quarters ago when you had told us that you expected to be free cash flow positive for the year.
And I know that you haven't said that in your last couple of calls but I did want to ask it again maybe there'd be a pass but also because you have been free cash flow positive the way you report at least in the first half of the year and you're expecting an improved second half.
So just wondering if there is anything that we're missing that would derail that free cash flow positive view? And then specific to free cash flow if you could also help us extract the SunCoke cash flows to get to the bottom of the AK cash flows? Thanks.
Just to offer the following Timna.
First off our job as the senior management the management team of the company as you know is to be great generators and prudent deployers of our cash.
We spent all of our time focused on doing exactly that I think we're making excellent progress in that regard.
We certainly expect and continue to expect to have a 2015 that'll be a much better year than 2014 as evidencing our progress be our best year we expect since 2008.
You know we don't give annual guidance and rarely give quarterly guidance that is at least until the end of the quarter we felt it was appropriate to indicate our outlook for the second half being much better than we did that in the a qualitative piece.
I think the thing I would just also emphasize is that while we expect to generate more cash we also expect to use a lot less cash about $300 million less this year through combination of lower pension contributions required and no required investments in Magnetation and so forth.
So cash flow positive free cash flow are certainly continued objectives of the company and we're above that.
We've made some very excellent progress as I said in terms of the cost reduction initiatives and in terms of managing working capital.
The key in all of this no surprise as what has taken us into a loss will bring us back into a profit and that is a reversal of the trends of the spot market dumped imports and their effect on pricing and volumes.
We absolutely see a recovery in the second half can't come fast enough.
Okay.
I know there is a lot of focus on this.
And I am sure some people not just me would like to hear a little more detail but I can follow-up with you offline.
I just wanted to ask I guess a second question if you could help remind us about the potential timing of any benefit of better stainless prices and electrical prices because it's never quite clear to me how much you might benefit in the short-term given a lot of your businesses contracted more annually if you could help us with that? Thanks.
You're right most of our business is contracted annually.
Those contracts depending on the market expire throughout the year.
Many of the specialty steel contracts expire more at the first of the year and many of those discussions are underway now and a better environment than we've had for a while and particularly on the international front for our higher end efficiency electrical fields headline there is we're sold out.
We're sold out for the balance of 2015 at higher prices and so as we go into discussions that positions us in a much better place than we have been in a while.
The other contracts again as I said were in a variety of discussions now a number of them will heat up later in the year and each of those is sort of unique and individual and special in their own way and I think it's a little early to give much sense of which direction those will go.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Hi gentlemen.
Good morning Tony.
Good morning.
Hi Jim.
I've got a couple of questions also and I was surprise first by the deterioration sequentially in your stainless and electrical shipments and you typically see a nice bump in the second quarter.
And I was wondering if you could provide some color there? Was the first quarter abnormally strong? Or is it the imports or just some color there would be helpful? Yeah.
Let me start and Roger is welcome to sort of chime in.
Really nothing of a significant nature jumps out at us and really there is no message that we're trying to send here.
For us in the stainless arena it's really the 400 series of product that has continued to track a very strong automotive marketplace we feel very good about that.
I think the other side of the coin is the 300 series and the more commodity type products no question that's been whacked if you will by imports.
So that's - electrical steel is actually on the rise in particular internationally but [ph] math is also holding strong and that's really a function of the recovery in the housing market as I said being as strong as it's been in the past seven years and these new efficiency standards that are kicking in around the world and here.
So I don't know Roger do you have any...? Yeah.
Tony also the other item that would be affecting it is - it was - is with the nickel prices falling you've seen us reduce our position in commodity chrome nickel.
As Jim mentioned we're not a big player in that but with it falling we are not a player - a much of a player in that.
Also we've seen some of the competitors get caught up and getting more product out to the marketplace in the second quarter.
And then also we had a very strong auto chrome business in the first quarter record shipments there.
And if you look at second quarter you would be going into the shutdowns for the automotive company so you could have a little bit of seasonality there but if you look at it our total stainless electrical roughly one from 228 000 ton to 223 000 ton so not really any material change there.
Okay.
And I have a question about raw material cost so you talk about iron ore cost declining further in 3Q and into the second half can you provide an order of magnitude on a percentage basis for us? Tony I'm going to ask Kirk Reich to comment on that.
Okay.
Great.
Yeah.
So what we see quarter-over-quarter we know the IODEX is going down around $10 a ton comparing second quarter to the third quarter.
Remind you that all the lag is - some of our contracts actually are based on Vale model which is four months in a rear so we already know most of our second quarter and most of our third quarter cost rather.
And so it's that kind of order of magnitude.
Now remember that not every dollar of all the iron ore we spend is based on the IODEX it's IODEX and several other factors but that's a good chunk of it so that gives you an order of magnitude of how we'd be improving on the quarter.
Yeah.
I'd just sort of add as postscript.
You've got a $10 move in the IODEX we might recognize some portion of that not all of that obviously and then we might be talking about something on the order of magnitude of $2.5 million tons of ore affected in the quarter.
So there is that there is also raw materials that are coming through all of which are good guys if you will at this moment in time Tony.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jorge Beristain of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Hi Jorge.
Yes.
Sorry - Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe Jim could you talk a little bit about what's going on with relative market share is because you do talk about imports really pressuring the landscape but we saw your shipments only increased about 3% quarter-on-quarter versus a 12% and 24% in flat rolled from your competitors like Steel Dynamics and Nucor.
So could you just talk about are you possibly losing some market share due to the financial stress on your balance sheet? And then therefore could we also see a quick inflexion of that in the second half as you start hit free cash flow? Do you think that clients are kind of stepping to the sidelines due to some financial pressure at AK Steel or is that a non-issue? We're growing market share in the markets we wish to grow in.
In particular the higher end more value-added contract business coded expose those kinds of things.
We consciously choose.
We make independent decisions about every order that we take or we forego.
And when prices get to $380 or $400 a ton as they did during the quarter we wish not to lose that much money.
Others may take a different view.
Their cost structure maybe somewhat different but again we'll continue to focus on those pieces and parts of the business so its niches that we think we differentiate ourselves in.
I do suspect that things are changing.
I think that as we reassess things in the second half of the year and really have already begun to do so we're seeing as we've said in our qualitative guidance for the third quarter and anticipate increased shipments as well as increased pricing.
So the trade case is matter undoubtedly.
And we like loading our mills more full than we are now.
We ran it something like 78% to 79%.
We expect that level to increase to the low 80s and to the mid-80s as we look out to the balance of the year.
It will be driven in part by the continued pretty strong demand that we see domestically and we're getting a handle on these unfairly traded imports.
Thank you.
And maybe just a strategic follow up question I have is you mentioned that you're in the process of doing a pretty thorough [indiscernible] strategic review of your business.
Is there - are you weighted at this point to the integrated model in the sense of if your strategic review came back and said you guys are shutdown one of your blast furnaces and go to a non-integrated model is that on the card? Is that what you'd kind of told earlier or am I misreading that? Let me just step back again this isn't about fear mongering or creating uncertainty this is about recognizing that something like 90% of steel companies on earth are losing money now and we're amongst them and that cannot go on indefinitely.
So the kind of thing that we're focused on is a kind of thing that really every entity and for that matter every manufacturer should be and we're doing that.
We're doing it in a very good and full way and we'll have more to say about that when we're ready.
I would just offer this it involves looking at our sales portfolio our innovation efforts our operations our raw materials and energy positions all of which contribute to positioning us to get profitable and remain profitable throughout the cycle.
One of the things that we ultimately have to determine here is whether or not the recent downturn is indeed another cyclical downturn or if it is a secular move that results in some actions that would be distasteful but required for the long run.
We have a combination I think Jorge as you know already of blast furnaces and electric car furnaces we are unique in that regard we're also unique in terms of our products mix with carbon and specialty that is electrical and stainless products.
So we have really a wide range of opportunities here to look at and we're looking at them.
And we'll see what the results show but the resulting structure of the company in the forward position that can't be a one that positions us to earn money and generate solid cash flow and that's exactly why we're here and we'll get it done as quickly as we can.
And Jorge I want to go back to your first question too when you asked about our decline and shipments.
And if you look at it comparing straight back to the fourth quarter before the lot of imports came in and compared it to current quarter our biggest decline was in the hot-rolled market.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Mike did you change your name? Was that Jim? Never mind.
If we didn't quite get your name but we know you are and welcome.
Thank you.
Hey I just have a question on the trade cases you mentioned the possibility of trade case on stainless.
In fact that it'd be a bit harder to do in the U.S.
because the two largest stainless producers are European companies? Here is all I have to say at the precious time about that.
Imports are imports and we are seeing an awful lot of imports again that we think fall into that category of unfairly traded.
We're assessing it.
We're analyzing the data.
We'll have more to say.
They're increasingly moving from commodity into more of our space as to why it would be easier or tougher remains to be seen but the data will tell the story and that data is being compiled and analyzed as we speak Mike.
But are the two European companies Outokumpu and Acerinox that own the big U.S.
operations are they actively looking at filing cases? I don't know that I can speak for other companies.
I would just say that there is an effort underway on sort of a no names basis to take a look at this very carefully.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Hi Phil.
Hey Jim.
Can you help us understand pricing as we move into the third quarter versus the first the second quarter and why you think it will be better just because I know that like well we believe that most of the most of the integrated producers have some lags in their contracts from pricing in prior quarters things of that nature some step-downs on contracts et cetera.
And why would you you think given your big contract mix at present that the pricing would get better versus the second quarter - help us.
Can you help us how to sure about that Sure I will do my best first of all I just point to the fact that prices are indeed up off the bottom right.
So the first piece of evidence that I'd offer to you is that prices are substantially up from where they were or probably up about a $100 a ton off very bottom of the offerings in the last 90 days.
And yet I would also remind you that we're probably still a $150 a ton or so from where we were maybe a year ago at this point.
And I would also offer that very few are able to make money at these levels.
So I think those are all important factors when one considers us beyond that.
Again the prices that we transacted at in the second quarter were all based kind of the on the if comp in another words if trade cases would come what would be affected now we have two trade cases that have been filed with a third one likely to come soon.
So that's going to happen so what led prices down in the spot market was the flood of the imports which was I think at its peak about 34% to 35% it's already headed back to about 27% that's still way too high by historical standards or for any degree of comfort.
But what led the prices down is exactly what's leading the prices back up and that's getting the handle on the imports we're rules based and we have to enforce our trade laws that is beginning to take shape and I think that' going have a significant effect particularly as we lookout into the latter part of the third quarter and into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then just secondarily I was - I thought your comments on exploring all avenues of the business in terms of the operational footprint was and is very refreshing in terms of sustainable free cash flow and looking at all avenues of the business model.
Is that something that has been a more recent thought process and how long - how long or when should we start to see some more dramatic changes in your business for the next year or two I mean what should we be expecting because I think it's all a good stuff.
Well I would just ask you to stay tuned but be a little patient not too patient with us we do this sort of thing on a regular basis strategic reviews for AK Steel are not a once a year deal or we put it on shelf this is an ongoing exercise and it is a very deep dive this time around we have some preliminary thoughts but again we want to sort of test those if not stress test those to make sure we're not simply reacting to current event syndrome and doing things that are in our best long-term interest and I suspect - we may have more to say about that in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Jim how are you? Hi Aldo.
Yeah.
So Jim on the hot-rolled coil potential cases is it true that there is still very large hot-coiled tariff in place on Russian and China right now out there or..
That's certainly the case on China.
Yeah.
That's certainly the case on China.
On China.
I think the Russian had this suspension agreement.
Yeah.
Suspension agreement.
Which has now reverted back to tariffs I think I'm not sure.
And Doug I guess my question is would you still file cases against countries that have existing tariffs because you think you could increase them is that part of the game plan? No.
I mean we're going to focus on is what the data is all put together the information will tell us where the material is coming from so that's really what's been evaluated.
As we said on these trade cases we're looking at the data and the data will tell you what's going on.
I don't want to speculate [indiscernible] when do for any single country because it really just depends where that steel is coming through what country is coming through and how it's arriving here on our shores.
Great.
And then I wondered Jim could you tell us what you think the change in the trade laws recently was that made that it easier to prove damages? Oh gosh I'm sure there is a lot of lawyers inside and outside the company that are far better positioned but it really does get to this proving of material injury.
The fact that you really don't have to go bankrupt or hemorrhage large volumes of cash over a period of time.
I think there are a variety of new measures although and we can detail those for you that what sort of indicate that there is a basis for bringing case and really proving injury and getting it through the system a lot faster.
That's it in the nutshell and sort of a laymen's term but it really is a very good thing.
By part as an effort with the president support and I think it begins to position America American manufacturing and certainly the steel industry to compete more effectively.
And we need to arguably as I've said before we're a bit of a victim of our own prosperity in relation to the rest of the world.
We've recovered faster and stronger and we're viewed as really a dumping ground.
And we have to be mindful of a couple of things.
I think the next level of legislation has to deal with the change in states of products.
We find that two things really occur.
One when certain countries are named as violators other countries are not named as violators immediately sort of take on the position of those that were zoned out and we've got to be quick to kind of nail those guys and get on with it.
The other thing is the change in phase of the products in some cases you can change get a case on cold rolled or hot rolled or whatever it maybe but then the product that winds up coming into the country some sort of value-added product.
We've got to be really on our game.
And we will be I think now that we have the attention of our legislators that they understand manufacturing is the backbone of the U.S.
economy and steel is the backbone of manufacturing.
We need a strong spine in our legislators and then our leaders they're stepping up to the challenge I think all of that will be helpful.
Thanks Jim.
And Roger one last one.
Do you have an estimate of what LIFO might be in the second half? No I wouldn't give an estimate but I think if you look at it we were about $52 million for the first half.
So that the way we account forward is that would represent both half of what we would estimate for the entire year.
Yeah.
So at this point nothing changes you might get $52 million? So the only thing that really will drive it is if what happens with raw material cost.
Go ahead.
And as Kirk mentioned we know what the iron ore is going to be in third quarter so there is still some opportunity for iron ore to fluctuate some in fourth quarter and then what happens with some of the other raw materials as you know nickel was declined scrap - carbon scrap to go up or down.
So those will be the only other main drivers that we've done drive what happens with LIFO.
Ladies and gentlemen let me take this opportunity to thank you again for joining us on today's call and for your continuing interest in AK Steel.
On behalf of all of us here at the company we want to wish you all the best for a great day a better tomorrow and a much better second half of 2015.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Executive Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I’ll turn the conference over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Candice and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our third quarter 2015 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's Web site at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Doug.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us on today's call.
Earlier today AK Steel reported its best quarter of 2015 and our highest quarterly EBITDA level in nearly six years as we generated EBITDA of $120 million or $64 per ton for the third quarter of 2015.
And AK Steel made money for the third quarter.
We are net income of approximately $7 million which is equal to EPS of $0.04 per share.
I want to take this opportunity to compliment and thank our management team and our entire workforce for their efforts in the third quarter and always especially in the face of adverse conditions.
During the third quarter we faced significant challenges especially in terms of pressures on carbon steel spot market selling prices order intake rates production volumes and shipments.
And all of these challenges stem from a common and a continuing problem imports.
The United States market for flat rolled carbon steel has been flooded with what we believe are unfairly traded imports.
Notwithstanding the unfair trade practices we faced we pulled together as a team and focused on controlling what we could control especially in terms of our controllable costs and delivered a profitable quarter for our shareholders.
Once again these results reflect a great team effort by the entire AK Steel workforce a workforce that unfortunately has a – it has a lot of experience in countering and overcoming adversity.
At AK Steel rather despite the challenges we face we’re focused on continuous improvement in all that we do.
Said another way despite what may come our way we know that we must get better each and every day.
And with that mindset we set about the quarter to run our operations well get our cost down and further integrate Dearborn Works.
And we succeeded on each of those fronts.
Indeed our operations ran very well albeit at levels of production below what we would have preferred.
That has nothing to do with operating issues.
Instead it has everything to do with the high level of steel imports that I’ve previously mentioned.
During the third quarter we set numerous records in our operations and especially by our employees at Dearborn Works who set a new quarterly production record at the hot dip galvanizing line which is a job well done.
And kudos as well to our employees at Butler Works who set a number of production records during the third quarter in electrical steel processing.
It was these record production levels that allowed us to meet the increased electrical steel demand from our customers.
Running well setting production records and improving internal and external quality performances are key to lowering our operating costs.
And as expected on the steel making input cost front our input cost were lower in the third quarter as compared to the second quarter.
This was the case as lower raw material costs flowed through our product costs.
That was especially true for our iron ore and scrap cost but it was a similar story for other input costs as well.
We also continued to experienced higher cost based synergies from the operation and integration of Dearborn Works.
During the third quarter of 2015 we marked the one-year anniversary of our ownership operation and ongoing integration of Dearborn Works.
We’ve made tremendous gains at Dearborn in the past year in every area including the important areas of safety environmental quality and productivity.
In spite of the lower than expected operating rates and shipment volumes because of the excessive amount of foreign steel landing on our shores our cost based synergies at Dearborn have actually exceeded earlier expectations.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we’ve achieved more than $43 million of cost based synergies and we’re on pace to achieve about $58 million in Dearborn synergies for the full year 2015.
While the carbon steel spot market for flat rolled sheet remains flooded so to speak we have continued to observe a very solid automotive market for our carbon and stainless steel products.
As a company for the third quarter of 2015 we set an all-time record in terms of shipments to automotive customers.
While no market is perfectly nor permanently insulated from import pressures it’s safe to say that the automotive sector has historically been served by domestic producers and that’s due to quality service and just-in-time delivery factors as well as price and a host of other factors that are very important to the auto manufacturers.
The strong automotive market is also helping to fuel demand in the stainless steel arena as well as most of you know AK Steel is not a big player in terms of commodity stainless steel.
Instead we focus more on auto chrome or 400 series stainless steel and those products and other value-added stainless steels.
NAFTA auto builds continue on a near record pace.
That’s very good news for our auto chrome business and it allowed us to experience our second best quarterly auto chrome shipment level in our company’s history.
Incidentally that’s second only to the first quarter of this year.
So things are hot in that market as well.
I’m pleased to share with you that the electrical steel market is also improving.
Our third quarter 2015 electrical steel shipments were roughly 3% higher than the second quarter of this year and about 10% higher than the third quarter of 2014.
The grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES market within that still continues to exhibit signs of steady growth.
This growth is coming from a real increase in demand coupled with the 2016 effective date of the United States Department of Energy’s increased efficiency standards.
It’s a similar story for exported GOES products implementation of the new European efficiency standards is creating more demand for our high efficiency electrical steel products and a trade case against a number of countries including the United States Russia China and other Asian producers has created a fairly tight market.
In our case given all of the market dynamics we are booked full for the balance of 2015 on all of our high-end electrical steel products including TRAN-COR H and our High-B products.
As a result we’re also experiencing improved spot market prices for these products.
With no control over carbon steel spot market selling prices which have fallen to levels the lowest since mid-2009 we’re highly focused on those things that we can indeed control.
In addition to staying true to our values of safety quality and productivity we’re especially focused these days on lowering our costs; our operating costs our steel-making input costs and our overhead costs and we’re very focused as well on enhancing our cash flow and liquidity positions.
Cost is the enemy of profitability and in an environment of the sort which we’re in every plant every department and every employee has to justify every expenditure.
In addition to the Dearborn cost based synergies that I spoke of previously we’re on pace to reduce cost elsewhere in the company to the tune of approximately $60 million for the full year 2015.
Not only do we believe it’s sustainable but we’re seeking more a lot more.
Some related to raw materials but it’s everywhere else that cost lives.
And the more you dig the more you discover that cost live just about everywhere and there’s always more cost cutting opportunities to be found.
Cost control and cost reduction activities are really nothing new for AK Steel.
It’s part of our heritage and it’s been in place ever since AK Steel has been AK Steel.
We’re constantly and we’re continuously finding ways to lower cost and improve efficiencies.
We will redouble our cost reduction efforts in 2016.
Given current market conditions it’s essential that we reduce cost further.
The low-hanging fruit has been picked so these cost reductions are painful ones but they’re absolutely necessary ones.
Speaking of painful measures on Friday October 16 we issued a warn notice to certain employees of AK Steel’s Ashland Works.
This action was taken because beginning in mid-December we intend to temporary idle Ashland’s steel making operations.
The duration of that idle will be based upon market conditions and while we cannot say how long it will last it could extend for more than six months.
This action has been brought about by the incredibly high level of what we believe are unfairly traded imported steel and its impact on pricing incredibly low pricing.
I want to give you some idea of just how bad carbon steel’s stock market pricing has become.
When we acquired Dearborn Works in September of 2014 benchmark hot rolled pricing was about $650 per ton.
Since our acquisition with the import pressures that price has declined by about $250 per ton or nearly 40% to right around $400 per ton.
And at this point our current prices for hot rolled coil are – well they’re very near their 15-year low levels and that ladies and gentlemen is simply incredible.
What’s worse is that the three trade cases that have been filed are taking at least in my opinion far too long to be completed and have the duties applied.
So we have to act and we are doing just that.
On the heels of the substantial decline in carbon steel spot market prices the latest challenge we’re facing is that our contract customers now want to pay lower prices for their steel as well.
They want to benefit from the reduction in our steel making input costs and all of the actions that we’ve pursued internally to remain healthy in the face of what we believe is unfair trade.
And they want these price reductions despite the painstaking efforts we go to in order to provide them with near-perfect steel just-in-time delivery tremendous customer service and support new product development such as advanced high-strength steels advanced engineering and substantial inventory programs.
And despite all of those value-added items our contract customers want to pay less for their steel in the future.
Bottom line is simply this.
We cannot give what we do not have.
At AK Steel we’re looking to protect and to grow our margins not shrink them into oblivion.
And if we don’t charge a selling price it allows our company to generate a profit reinvest in the business including advanced high-strength steels and be self sustaining well then shame on us.
We do our customers and our shareholders a great disservice at that point.
So we do indeed charge a fair price for our steel one that keeps us in business because we want to be here tomorrow next year and 10 years from now to serve our customers and to serve them well.
So in order to do so we need what we need including a price that allows us to consistently make money and invest for the future.
Our mission at AK Steel to be clear is to take great care of our three constituent groups including our customers our employees and our shareholders.
Just to expand on this for a moment AK Steel has been here and will continue to be here to keep our employees safe at all times to serve customers better than any other steelmaker and to reward our shareholders for the long run.
To do these things and to do them well it’s important that we consistently make money and prove our cash and liquidity positions strengthen our balance sheet and get our stock price up.
We get it and we are on it.
Because of this earlier in 2015 we initiated a comprehensive strategic review to position ourselves to compete and to win in the global steel economy.
Among other things in this review we continue to evaluate the long-term footprint for AK Steel while asking ourselves what businesses should we continue to be in what products should we make and where should we make and where should we sell them and what configuration optimizes the outcome for our company in the steel world of the future? The warn notice recently issued to our Ashland Works employees is intended to be temporary in nature but the future of Ashland Works as well as the future of our other facilities depends in great measure on our ability to increase our production volumes our shipment volumes and the selling prices of our value-added products.
And it depends on our ability to reduce our exposure to those products and markets which are more commoditized and were differentiation is not appreciated or valued.
We will reconfigure the business accordingly and we will do everything we can to cut cost along the way.
Ultimately however we need a recovery on the top line in order to significant improve the bottom line.
And we need to align our production capabilities with anticipated market trends.
In short we need the right footprint to compete more effectively in the days ahead.
We need to be where we need to be to meet our customers’ evolving needs and we need to continue to invest in research and innovation as we develop and manufacture the products our customers require in the future.
As we move forward over the next several months we’ll continue our laser-like focus on customers and costs and we will determine what makes sense.
What makes sense for AK Steel to achieve a sustainable level of profitability? Before turning it over to Roger for some more insights into our quarterly financial performance and before Roger Kirk and I take your questions let me offer a few thoughts about our succession planning.
Earlier today we issued a press release announcing my retirement from AK Steel effective January 1 of 2016.
At each Board of Directors meeting we discuss succession planning including developing our internal candidates to succeed me and the vice presidents of the company.
While planning and development activities have been taking place for years the Board and I concluded at last week’s board meeting that my successors are ready to lead this great company into the future.
Accordingly in a few months I’ll retire and pass on the leadership torch to my successors and obviously I do so with very mixed emotions.
You see I love this company and its people.
It and they are unique and special not just to me but to the entire steel industry and in all of American manufacturing.
For more than 20 years in total the past 12 of which have been spent as its President and CEO it’s been my great honor and privilege to work for and to lead AK Steel.
But no one does this alone.
It takes a team and we have a very fine team at AK Steel.
I simply could not have done what I did without the tremendous support of our Board of Directors and I thank them nor could I have done what I did without the finest management team and workforce in the steel business and to all of you who played a role in our company’s recovery and repositioning in the past 12 years I offer a heartfelt thank you.
I’ve got great confidence in the new senior leadership team that was selected by our Board of Directors.
Roger Newport is a fabulous choice to lead AK Steel as our company’s next CEO.
He’s got the vision the strategic focus and the tenacity necessary to lead our company.
I’m confident that Roger will do an excellent job in designing and executing our company’s strategy and that his leadership will help position the company for sustained success in the years ahead.
He’s do a terrific job as CEO and behalf of AK Steel’s employees our customers shareholders and our other important constituents.
Kirk Reich is a fantastic choice to serve as the company’s next President and COO.
He embraces our company’s culture our heritage and tradition of manufacturing some of the finest quality carbon stainless electrical steels available anywhere in the world.
I’ve great confidence that Kirk will do an excellent job in his new roles while maintaining the company’s leading focus on safety quality and productivity measures and serving customers better than any other steelmaker.
I’ve worked very closely with each of these gentlemen for a number of years.
We’re fortunate to have them both at our company as they are among the very best in the steel business.
They’re doing an outstanding job for the company today and I’ve got no doubt that they’ll do an outstanding job of leading AK Steel from the top two slots starting in 2016.
As for me I’m not going far as I’ll remain on AK Steel’s Board of Directors as Chairman of the Board a role that I have held since 2006 albeit going forward it will be in a nonexecutive capacity.
I look forward to helping guide the company and the days ahead under the direction of our new CEO and our new President and COO each of whom I wish my heartiest congratulations and best wishes for success.
With that let me turn it over to Roger Newport and he’s currently our Executive VP and CFO and soon to be our next CEO.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
As Jim previewed earlier AK Steel reported a net profit of 6.7 million or $0.04 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2015 which was better than our guidance of a loss of $0.02 to $0.07 per diluted share.
These results represent a substantial improvement compared to a net loss of 64 million or $0.36 per share for the second quarter of 2015.
Our results for the third quarter of 2015 exceeded our guidance as a result of solid cost performance partially offset by slightly lower than expected LIFO credit.
Our shipments of 1 871 000 tons for the third quarter of 2015 represent an increase of 60 000 tons or about a 3% improvement over the second quarter of 2015 and our shipments were slightly better than our guidance.
Our improved shipments quarter-over-quarter were primarily the result of increased shipments to the automotive market.
However our total shipments continued to be weighed down by excess fuel supply in the United States resulting from high levels of what we believe are unfairly traded imports.
As Jim mentioned overall steel demand remains pretty solid in the United States and our carbon and stainless shipments to the automotive market remains strong in the third quarter of 2015.
Our average selling price for the third quarter was $912 per ton.
This was $19 per ton or about 2% lower than our average selling price for the second quarter and in line with our guidance.
This decline was mostly due to pricing pressures related to the weak carbon steel spot market price environment partially offset by some improvements in the electrical steel spot market.
Revenues for the third quarter exceeded $1.7 billion.
This was slightly higher than our second quarter sales.
This increase was driven by the higher level of shipments including continuing strong automotive shipments partially offset by lower carbon steel spot market pricing.
Raw material costs were lower in the third quarter compared to the second quarter particularly for iron ore pellets carbon scrap and coke.
We incurred 11.8 million of planned maintenance outage cost in the third quarter of 2015 down about $6 million compared to the $18 million spent on planned maintenance outages in the second quarter.
In the third quarter we recorded a LIFO credit of 44.8 million compared to a LIFO credit of 34.8 million for the second quarter.
The higher LIFO credit was primarily driven by the continued decline in raw material costs.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude our non-controlling interest consisting primarily of SunCoke Middletown that are in our operating results.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2015 was $120 million or $64 per ton.
This represented an improvement of $72.4 million or $38 per ton compared to the second quarter of 2015.
The primary driver of this increase was our lower cost performance especially raw material costs and lower operating costs.
These savings were partially offset by lower carbon steel spot market prices.
We are pleased with our performance in such a challenging steel market environment.
As Jim mentioned we will continue to focus on lowering our cost to help mitigate some of the market impacts.
Moving to our results for the first nine months of 2015 revenues were more than $5.1 billion an increase of approximately $642 million or 14% compared to the first nine months of 2014 and this was primarily due to the acquisition of Dearborn Works.
Shipments for the first nine months of 2015 were 5 433 000 tons an increase of roughly 1.3 million tons or 32% compared to the first nine months of 2014.
Once again this increase was mostly due to the acquisition of Dearborn Works as well as the continued strength in the automotive market.
Our average selling price for the first nine months of 2015 was $947 per ton a decrease of $146 per ton or roughly 13% compared to the first nine months of 2014.
This decrease was primarily attributable to lower carbon steel spot market selling prices in 2015 which was driven by the dramatic increase in low priced foreign steel imports.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred approximately $44 million of planned maintenance outage cost during the first nine months of 2015 about 10 million higher than we expended during the first nine months of 2014.
However 2015 has been a much better year than 2014 in terms of unplanned outage.
That’s a credit to our operators.
Last year as a result of incidents at our Ashland Works blast furnace in the first nine months of 2014 we incurred unplanned outages of $41 million and we incurred about $45 million in costs related to the extreme winter weather conditions.
At the bottom line for the first nine months of 2015 we reported an adjusted net loss of $107.3 million or $0.61 per share.
This compares to an adjusted net loss of $85.8 million or $0.61 per share for the first nine months of 2014.
Our adjusted results for the first nine months of 2015 exclude a charge of $256 million or $1.44 per share to fully impair our investment in the Magnetation joint venture.
Our adjusted results for the first nine months of 2014 exclude expenses of 24.6 million or $0.18 per share related to the acquisition of Dearborn.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
For the third quarter our capital investments totaled approximately $21 million bringing our capital investments year-to-date to $70 million.
I would note that given the current market conditions we have prudently adjusted our expected capital investments for 2015 from 150 million to approximately 120 million.
In the third quarter our continued focus on working capital resulted in working capital being a source of cash of $68 million.
For the first nine months of 2015 working capital was a source of cash of approximately $112 million.
Turning to our debt position.
In the third quarter we were presented with unsolicited opportunities to repurchase certain of our outstanding debt.
After careful consideration and with our solid liquidity position we decided to take advantage of the low price and we repurchased 12.5 million in par value of our senior unsecured notes at a substantial discount.
Year-to-date we have purchased $15 million in par value of our unsecured notes at a composite price of approximately 67 representing a gain of approximately $4.7 million.
I would note that we were also able to reduce our credit facility borrowings in the third quarter by $45 million which reflects the second sequential quarter of reducing our borrowings.
In regards to liquidity we increased our liquidity position in the third quarter by $21 million and we ended the third quarter of 2015 with solid liquidity of $821 million despite the challenging steel market conditions we have faced this year.
As we have previously disclosed we anticipated substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014 for a variety of reasons including significantly lower pension funding requirements.
Our pension funding requirements for 2015 were $24.1 million.
We funded $1 million in the first quarter and the remaining $23 million contribution was completed in the third quarter.
More importantly we have no pension funding requirements in 2016 and based on actuarial assumptions as of the beginning of the year and pension funding regulations we estimate that we will have no pension funding requirements in 2017.
I would note that actuarial funding requirements for 2017 and beyond will be determined by various actuarial assumptions as well as the actual pension asset investment returns.
So from a liquidity perspective we believe we are in a very good position.
We have liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs and we have no near-term debt maturities.
As a reminder our nearest debt maturity is our senior secured notes that are due in December of 2018.
More importantly we continue to focus on lowering our costs and optimizing our operations to enhance cash flows so that we can further reduce our debt levels.
I also want to take a moment to update you on our cost-based synergies related to the acquisition of Dearborn.
We are very pleased with our progress on these synergies and the savings from such items as quality improvements transportation benefits overhead reductions and yield enhancements and we are meeting or exceeding our expectations in all areas.
As Jim mentioned our year-to-date synergies through the first nine months totaled approximately $43 million.
And this synergy is without the benefit of our previously anticipated volume-based synergies since we have actually had to reduce our operating levels due to the surge of carbon steel imports.
We’re continuing to identify additional synergy opportunities and we expect to obtain the volume-related cost synergies when market conditions improve.
Taking all this into consideration we continue to be very well-positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations going forward.
Before moving to the guidance I would like to also take this opportunity to update you on the status of the three carbon steel trade cases we are involved in.
The initial review of all three trade cases has been completed by the International Trade Commission which have made preliminary determinations that the domestic industry is suffering injury as a result of imports from the named countries.
A Commerce Department is currently conducting investigations to determine if producers from named countries are violating U.S.
antidumping law by selling their products at less than fair value in the United States and are violating U.S.
countervailing duty law by selling steel that benefits from unfair government subsidies.
Assuming these cases proceed as successfully as we expect they will the next key milestone will be on November 2 with the determination of the preliminary countervailing duty for the corrosion-resistant trade case.
At that point importers of record will be required to post cash deposits to cover duties for those products.
Turning to our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2015 as is our practice we intend to provide financial guidance in December.
However at this time we believe it is appropriate to provide the following qualitative guidance.
We anticipate lower carbon steel pricing in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter due principally to the high level of low price foreign steel imports that has continued to be imported into the United States as well as recent declines in carbon scrap prices.
As a result of these low price imports and their impact on the current market environment we also expect lower carbon steel spot market shipments in the fourth quarter as we expect to reduce shipments rather than sell into the current low price environment.
We expect our planned maintenance outages in the fourth quarter to be about half of what they were in the third quarter and we do not have any major blast furnace maintenance outages planned for the balance of the year.
Now before taking your questions since this is Jim’s last quarterly investor conference call I would like to thank Jim for his leadership of our company over the past 20 plus years and especially for his leadership as President and CEO over the last 12 years.
During the past couple of decades Jim led the company through some very challenging times and we are a better company as a result of this leadership.
Kirk and I look forward to taking over the reign from Jim.
While we recognize that we are facing many challenges in our industry we look forward to taking on these challenges head-on and moving AK Steel forward to enhance value for all of our constituents.
So let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel and thank you to Jim for your leadership and your continued leadership going forward.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Mike.
I have a question on the steel trade cases.
Over what period of time is the Commerce Department looking to determine these tariffs? It is over a three-year period is what they’re looking at.
And when is the ending point? The ending point is based on when they filed in effect so you’re looking back at the quarterly information so the prior quarter to the final.
So Mike just to expand on that for a minute the final duties as we understand them of course all these things are subject to change as we find out from time-to-time would be anywhere from June through September of 2016 but there a lot of activities ahead of that including activities just around the corner November 2 for coated for the preliminary countervailing duties determination.
And as Roger said it starts to get some teeth when people have to start to post the bond and money for the amounts.
These duties could be several hundred percent.
At least in my view undoubtedly it’s going to have a significant impact on supply and on pricing although to date it hasn’t and I would argue it hasn’t because the teeth really haven’t been there yet.
And Mike I would comment when you look at the periods the focus is going to be on the more recent when the imports started coming up.
As you’re aware they started rising here late last year and continued to rise and peaked at about 34% of our market earlier this year.
So those will be the main focus areas but it does have to look by period.
I was just curious because since you filed the cases pricing has taken another big leg down.
Are they not looking at that period as well? One comment if you look at the trade cases so far there’s really been no penalty yet.
As Jim mentioned the first case on uncoated steels is November 2.
We do have the critical circumstances that were requested which would have a 90-day look back.
But when you look at the cold rolled and hot rolled cases currently the cold rolled case we’re looking for the preliminary duties on December 15 and on the hot rolled in January.
So there’s not a lot of teeth yet behind the trade cases because effective November 2 assuming the duties come out at that point that’s when they as Jim said have to post the duties for that.
So part of it is you got to get there and unfortunately just the way the process work it’s a long drawn-out process when you look at the imports started coming in in the second half of last year.
We’re not looking at getting the first duties here in November.
And then last question assuming you get a positive ruling or a negative ruling how does your planning change going forward under those two scenarios? I think looking out to see what impact the trade cases have on us and what it does to the marketplace there’s a lot of factors out there driving the marketplace.
The oversupply that’s globally out there especially related to China.
What happens in the scrap market which is a driver here domestically for steel prices seeing what happens there.
And then as Jim mentioned what we believe will be the benefits of the trade cases.
As he had commented on in his prepared remarks we did issue the warning notice down at Ashland.
That means that we currently are looking at temporary idling the facility and decisions on those types of things will be evaluated also based on what happens with the marketplace.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
So I guess before I ask my first question just wanted to say best wishes Jim.
Whatever your future endeavors may be wish you the best.
And Roger Kirk looking forward to working with you guys going forward.
Big news this morning.
So my first question for you is on Ashland.
Can you give us some color just a little bit on what the shutdown cost might be initially and what happens to those over time? When does the shutdown of Ashland actually become a benefit on the cost line? Is that for second quarter? How do we think about that? Thanks.
I’ll start with maybe the rationale for it and certainly the terrible market conditions that Roger and Jim spoke of.
We’re just in a position where it just doesn’t make sense to continue to operate at the low levels we’ve been operating all of our furnaces.
And so we’ll get the operational efficiency from the other two furnaces and temporary idle the Ashland facility until we see the market rebound and conditions change that would warrant doing something different there.
In regards to the financial implications it’s too early to give guidance at this point.
As we indicated we gave this notice on October 16 that we are looking at temporary idling the facility in mid-December.
It could last more than six months.
It will only be driven by the market conditions.
And we will bring the furnace and operations down in an orderly manner so we can bring it back up all ready and market conditions are there to support it.
So in regards to any 4Q charges all I would say is there would be some charges to bring down the facility and then we would also have to accrue what we would see as unemployment type related benefit costs and that would be dependent on how long we believe that it will be down.
Maybe just on that I guess on the employee side so you take a severance hit in the initial quarter when you do this.
Do you have to continue to pay a certain percentage of those salaries while the mill is down? And if so what’s the level that that falls to? No the employees basically – under their union contract there is supplemental unemployment benefits that they get along with the unemployment benefits they would get with the state and other benefits that they get in accordance to the labor agreement.
Got it okay that’s helpful.
And then my other question really just is on contracts rolling off.
I think I was surprised by how well pricing came in for this quarter and I was kind of debating whether that was electrical steel moving up or whether that was just maybe some carbon contracts or coated contracts that had just been – hadn’t rolled over yet.
Could you maybe just give us a sense of which quarters you have the bulk of contract resets hit at this point? I know it used to always be in the first quarter but I guess that’s spread out over the years.
Is there still a big chunk that’s going to hit on Jan 1? There is a chunk that hits on Jan 1 there is a chunk that hits on April 1 and there’s chunks that sort of hit throughout the year Evan is what I would say.
The prices these days are typically established for a year period a 12-month duration and that’s just fine with us because we anticipate that prices will be going back up as the market returns to any sense of normalcy here.
But I wouldn’t necessarily guide you that the majority or a large percentage of any one quarter and that’s sort of intentional.
We’ve looked at this as really a portfolio approach as have our customers.
And I think our customers don’t want all their deals coming up at one point nor do we.
So the key really is to continue to build on those relationships provide them with what they need do the best job.
Make sure that they know we’re selling value not just price and we’ll continue to differentiate ourselves in those fashions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
Hi gentlemen.
Commendable job in an extremely challenging environment.
And Jim seems that for too much of your tenure as CEO it’s been a challenging environment so congrats.
Thank you very much Tony.
You’re welcome.
Congrats to you and your team for your successes.
And Roger and Kirk congrats on your new responsibilities too.
So I just wanted to focus on cost a little bit and Jim you made the comments about redoubling efforts and a lot of low hanging fruit has been picked.
So just trying to get a better sense of how you’re looking at your portfolio now and I think I heard a number of $60 million that were kind of controllable cost that you’re targeting taking out.
I think that was separate if I heard correctly from what you’re doing at Dearborn.
I’m wondering how much further do you think you can go to reduce kind of the fixed – the sustainable costs the structural costs in your system? Can you give us some sense of what’s out there? As I said cost is the enemy of profitability particularly in an environment like we’re in.
We’ve had any number of downturns and you’ve cited several during my tenure right at the company.
So you’re right about that.
We’ve got some experience.
It’s interesting and perhaps just coincidental that the 60 million rough number for both Dearborn synergies and what we’re doing inside the company this year are the same but there has to be more.
And look when you spend about roughly $8 billion on whether it’s raw materials and energy whether it’s on other alloys and people and so forth you have to really step back and look at those things and really the challenge that I’ve given to the senior team here is to take further costs out.
We have set certain targets.
I won’t really expose those today and it really falls into Kirk’s and Roger’s hands to make those things happen now.
But how much more is there is yet to be determined and I think it really depends on the severity of the situation that we face.
But it’s not tens of millions.
I would like to think it’s hundreds of millions.
Kirk do you want to comment? Yes.
As Jim said those are separate buckets.
The 60 million is what we’re – we’re on a run rate to do that this year.
As Jim said there was more there.
Those are operational efficiencies.
They are improvements to how we run our business on a day-to-day basis that look at getting cost out.
It’s purchasing savings.
It’s yield savings.
There is increments of those kinds of pieces in that 60 million number and there’s more there.
And as Jim said we’re not at low hanging fruit anymore.
We’re reaching higher branches but there’s still fruit there.
There’s still pieces that we can pull off without harming the company and without doing damage that are just plain the right thing to do and it’s really how we do our business.
And that’s an addition to the 58 million that we’re on a run rate for our synergies in Dearborn and that’s just simply improving the business really across every facet as we set out to do when we began.
And we found that it’s certainly there and there’s a lot more to go at Dearborn as well and we expect to continue to make those kind of strides.
Could this involve then further plant reconfiguration and as you look at the portfolio more deeply the possible exit from certain products or markets? Sure absolutely.
That’s exactly what we’re looking at.
As Jim said before every plant every operation is being considered and we’ve got to come up with a way to differentiate our company.
And certainly producing all commoditized product isn’t that way.
And so to that extent we are considering any and all of those options and we’ll continue to evaluate those and implement the things that make sense going forward.
Tony we’re looking both at the operation side but also looking at the products we sell and the markets we sell to and what makes sense for us long term.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
How you’re doing? Hi Justine.
Congrats to everybody to Jim on the retirement and to Roger and Kirk on the promotions.
My first question is just a follow up to Tony’s on cost.
So when you guys talk about 60 million all in this year versus all in last year what kind of base you’re going to be thinking about? Well I guess really the question is – the question that we’re getting asked from investors is assuming the current cost structure with whatever progress you’ve made on that 60 million can the company be EBITDA positive at a $400 hot rolled price? I’ll comment on the cost side.
We’re referring to as how we did versus last year so we’re looking at how we can take cost out.
So we’re very focused on that.
We continue to be focused on that day-in and day-out month-in and month-out.
An example as Kirk mentioned it’s a lot of different things.
It’s how you’re running your operations how you’re burdening your blast furnace how you’re running your melt shops everything transportation costs looking at everything and identifying opportunities from the cost side.
So we are looking at everything and as you have the volatility going on in all the commodities markets whether it’s iron ore it’s scrap it’s natural gas coal prices et cetera you’re always looking at how do I end up ultimately getting the lowest cost flat to my operations and that’s really what we focus on when we’re looking at our businesses.
How I bring out the lowest cost product? And then on the finishing side how do we continue to optimize there? So I wouldn’t give comment on a selling price that’s in a spot market because it also depends on the cost side where the raw material costs are where scrap is where iron ore is where coal cost are and coke costs natural gas et cetera.
So I wouldn’t say there’s a number that says you can or can’t generate certain amounts or levels of earnings.
But we are very focused realizing short term.
It’s challenging times especially because the trade cases are still to come and that we’re facing the challenges of all the imports and the low pricing and low scrap.
But we are very focused on -- And you can’t forget about these things both stainless and electrical which are very good markets for us as well.
Right.
I mean I guess maybe if we assume that we hold the raw materials prices constant which I know doesn’t happen but they’re pretty low.
I mean nickel prices are pretty low scrap prices are pretty low.
If we assume the raw materials stay relatively constant but the hot rolled stays at 400 do you think it’s possible – can the company be EBITDA positive at that level? I wouldn’t comment on that.
I wouldn’t be earnings projections but I would say that we got a good product mix; carbon stainless electrical steel products.
We’re focused on lowering costs.
I would say that one and assumption that something is going to stay at a certain level in the commodities market I would never believe because I’ve been in the business 30 years and I can tell you one thing it’s going to happen in the future it’s going to be volatile.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Chuck.
Good luck.
We’ve been hearing a lot of noise around the industry in Asia about upcoming negotiations for electrical steels especially the high end which apparently is really tight especially the market as you mentioned in Europe but also Japan and the discussion seems to involve you guys for the most part and whether or not you’ll go for $300 to $500 when you start negotiating for next year.
Is that a conceivable number? So we are a very large domestic and global player in the electrical steel market.
Things are looking up in that market.
I mean just to Justine’s question fortunately we’re 10% hot rolled guys or something like that.
If we were 90% hot rolled guys I think it’s a different – we’re a significant player in the electrical steel market.
That market continues to recover domestically and overseas.
We are indeed getting higher prices in the spot market.
We’re in the midst of negotiations with our contract customers as we speak and we’re not shy about seeking higher prices.
Can we talk for a minute about stainless? If our chrome prices haven’t come down all that much I guess recently about $0.04 a pound but the stainless price seems to have come down more.
Is there some reason for that? I’m not talking about yours I’m talking in a general sense.
Well I think there’s a couple of things.
One pricing has come down due to imports probably in most countries where people are trying to move stainless.
The only other thing is the nickel content or nickel price has come down also so the surcharges associated with stainless have come down quite a bit too.
So we’re not a major player in the commodity chrome nickel business.
Our focus is more on annual contract business niche markets that we make out of our – niche products that we make out of our [indiscernible] facility that are more specialty type grade and not a big player in the commodity market.
So yes the commodity side has definitely been impacted by the overcapacity and the falling nickel prices.
I was focusing frankly more on the 409 which does not have the nickel in it but it seems like that hasn’t done all that well despite somewhat lower chrome prices? I’ll say the bulk of our auto chrome business the 400 series is in automotive markets so that is annual contract business.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about what kind of SG&amp;A run rate we should get in light of the savings because we haven’t seen a lot come out since Dearborn was acquired? And also what you expect for working capital? Is there more that you squeeze there as well? In regards to SG&amp;A I wouldn’t give a run rate at this point but we’re very focused on taking out costs.
Some of that could be impacted on what our ultimate determination is related to Ashland and the timing of that and the length of that so that’s an impact out there.
We’re always focused on taking out costs.
We got a lot of cost taken out on the overhead side when we acquired Dearborn and have had a lot of synergies not just related to Dearborn but how we’ve been able to reduce our overhead costs as a total company.
And on the working capital front we’re always focused on reducing working capital.
As you saw in our numbers that we’ve reported so far we’ve taken working capital down about $112 million so far so we have made a lot of progress.
We’ve actually looked at the last two quarters have been substantial improvement and our focus is to continue to do that as we go forward with our business.
Part of it will – the implications of what happens with Ashland can have some impact on that but our focus is every year at a minimum to be working capital neutral however this year working capital has been a big source.
Last year it was actually used because of a decline in the markets.
We ended with higher levels of raw materials than we originally expected to and we’ve been able to work our way through those higher levels of inventories and get those out of the system.
But I can tell you we’re very focused on continuing to improve working capital from every aspect.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I just wanted to ask obviously you’ve had these big LIFO incomes quarterly increasing with the lower prices and assuming also part of your lower inventories that you’ve been holding.
So I’m looking at 125 million 130 million run rate for this year which implies a kind of drop off at current levels into the fourth quarter on LIFO like something in the order of 10 million to 20 million.
If prices stay here if volumes are flat is there anything to offset that LIFO income reversal? Can you talk to that? I’ll comment on our LIFO.
Year-to-date we’re about $97 million so if you look at there’s about $33 million a month on average.
So assuming per quarter on average so assuming that would carry forward that’s the type of number you would see annualized because we’re taking 75% of LIFO credit.
And really what’s going to drive that is we’d have some raw material primarily on the scrap side because iron ore is pretty much fixed now for pricing.
We know what coal prices are because that’s the annual contracts.
So really the biggest driver is a little bit on the energy side mostly on the scrap side.
As you’re aware Timna the scrap did fall here in October quite a bit which there’s a good a bad to that.
The good is it lowered our cost the bad is it also takes down your spot market pricing.
So the LIFO benefit that helps from that side but unfortunately gets the negative side on the pricing front.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Hi Roger how are you? Okay.
A couple of questions on the product mix in the fourth quarter.
I know in the past when you reduced your hot rolled coil shipments there’s been a beneficial impact on the average selling price.
And I know you said in your general guidance that you expect the average selling price of carbon spot to decline but you didn’t say anything about the average selling price overall in your mix.
So I’m wondering is there a chance that the mix could improve and offset the carbon spot? You might see another kind of surprisingly strong average selling price in the fourth quarter? I’ll just comment there that we do see that we will have lower spot market pricing.
As you’re aware although our products that we sell are carbon stainless and electrical so carbon is lower priced just because of the product that it is.
And that we would see selling less of that into the spot market so therefore assuming everything else staying the same you’re average selling price would rise as a result of just the difference in product mix.
Great.
And then a related question Roger on the – previously when you cut your hot rolled coil you gain that benefit on average selling price but you’ve given up something on the fixed overhead cost per ton on the remaining volume right so you have essentially lower tons on the same fixed cost.
Now that if Ashland could be fixed or closed is that enough to allow you to cut your hot rolled coil volume to a point where it maybe half of what on average and yet not lose the efficiency on the rest of the product mix? Yes I won’t comment on exactly what percent I would reduce it but that’s exactly what we would intend to do.
You wouldn’t take it out unless the net was a benefit but I think you’ve hit on a very key point.
There are costs that sort of hang around and you’ve got to get rid of them.
And we’re looking hard at this and we’ll have more to say very soon.
And as Kirk mentioned if we do something at Ashland for example we will get some benefits at other facilities too.
So when you’re running not full everywhere currently by idling Ashland you gain efficiencies at your other facilities that helps you too.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Melissa Tan of R.
W.
Pressprich.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question and again congratulations to the management team.
First question is relating to the utilization rate for the company’s various plans.
If we’re thinking excluding Ashland we’re not including that for the second half of December and also in the first half of 2016 what would the company be comfortable with the utilization level? In the third quarter it was definitely high in the 80s and the last few quarters it was high 70s and low 80s? Yes actually third quarter was probably right at about 80% for us and fourth quarter we’re projecting will be about 76%.
And I’ll comment there on the -- Ashland in the mix -- Ashland obviously.
And also I would comment on utilization rates because it really depends on the product mix and how we’re running our operations and how much stainless versus electrical versus carbon so that does also have an impact.
And really what you’re total availability that you have and calculate that.
And the intent would be that the utilization rate if you project to a first quarter and Ashland is idle that that should drive the utilization rate higher.
Those facilities would be more utilized fuller.
Excluding Ashland.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And the second one has to do with your pensions.
I know previously on the calls you mentioned into – both 2016 and 2017 you don’t expect any sort of expense but this time you mentioned only '17.
And also related to the press release the corridor charge just trying to get an idea what that could be because over the last couple of years there was a big swing in terms of that number into 2014 and 2012? Sure.
In regards to the pension I think what you’re talking there was pension funding and we had 24 million we put in this year.
We will have no contribution to 2016.
And based on the assumptions that we had for 2017 we do not expect any contributions but that will only be driven on primarily what happens with the financial markets and the pension assets so we don’t see anything on that any volatility because interest rates for funding purposes are based on a 25-year smoothing [ph].
So interest rates really are not a big driver there.
In regards to the corridor that’s really just driven by what happens on two things; what happens with interest rates.
For accounting purposes you look at what is your interest rate on December 31 of each year.
It doesn’t matter what it was any other point in time of the year.
You look at what it was at the end on that date and that will determine the liability that is on your books.
Currently we have seen interest rates actually rise a little bit throughout this year since the beginning of the year since the end of last year which is favorable which would lower our liability on our books.
However it just depends on what’s the return on the pension assets and if those would happen to have a weaker performance than expected.
That’s where you get into the corridor.
But I would comment the corridor charge is a P&amp;L item it’s a non-cash item.
It has nothing to do with cash funding of it or anything else.
And even when you look at the discount rate that’s used to calculate our liabilities on our balance sheet that is not what is used to determine what you have to do for pension funding.
So really that is just what’s done on our books.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of CRT Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
First off Jim congratulations on 20 years of accomplishments in a tough environment.
And Roger and Kirk congratulations on your promotions.
I wanted to ask a little bit about Ashland and sort of the impact on customers.
Are there any customers that are sort of not transferrable to Dearborn or Middletown in terms of qualifications and that sort of thing? And is it safe to assume that essentially you’re going to try to protect all the contracts and let some of the spot volumes slip as a result of the Ashland idling? Yes that’s exactly right.
That’s the plan we would go about doing.
And yes you were correct in that the assumption is and our plan is that no one contract customer would be impacted.
We do not have any customers that are in Ashland only type of product mix from a melt shop standpoint.
A reminder we are planning on keeping the coating line at Ashland operating to avoid any of those kind of customer issues and the coating line is fully utilized as a result of a strong automotive drop.
So we would not run into any of those type of issues in shifting our melt to Middletown or Dearborn.
And there’s no implications on the galvanizing line because today the coils are sent from Middletown down to Ashland to be coated so that would still continue.
All right.
And then I’m not sure if I’m venturing into stuff that you can’t talk much about but I think a lot of the capacity from Magnetation was going to Ashland.
Can you guys talk a little bit about kind of iron ore supply plans going forward in the context of a Ashland idling? Yes.
Actually our Magnetation you’re right previously was going the majority to Ashland.
It’s now going to Middletown and being consumed in that furnace.
And the same volumes right.
That’s right.
Okay.
That was my follow up.
Congrats to all.
Thanks.
Thank you Brett very much.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Jim I’ve always thought of your company as very lean in good and bad times alike and you’re citing hundreds of millions of dollars in terms of magnitude of potential cost savings and obviously I think everybody’s dancing around the same question.
I guess one where will we see that kind of magnitude to savings.
And secondarily if you could give us at all any color on what Ashland’s fixed costs are at least the ballpark for their steelmaking operations that would be helpful? We think we’re pretty lean.
I think if you look at it from really any vantage point we get more from the equipment we get better.
Our man hours per ton particularly when you look at the products all of that fairs very very well.
I think you have to step back and you have to say when the markets get to where they’ve gotten here with prices being off 40% with pressures from the contract side of the business we’ve got to do everything that we can as a management team as a company and we can’t do it alone either.
We’ve got to do it with our supply base and with wherever cost resides to get even leaner and that’s the focus.
So I think we’ve done a good job.
We’ve got to do a better job and it’s all really in light of the effects and circumstances that we face.
And we’ve had a very resilient and a very resourceful management team that has responded to the challenges in the past.
I’ve every confidence that they will going forward.
You look at really where our cost reside and again the majority of them reside in raw materials and energy.
They reside in terms of our conversion costs they reside in terms of their consumables and they reside in terms of the people and benefits.
And so those are all areas that we’ll once again look at when quantifying any one of them or give you specific targets.
I will tell you that to find hundreds of millions is not an easy task and there is a degree of pain and that certainly involves some of the key decisions that I’ll be involved with and that the new leaders of the company are going to take on as well.
Okay.
So listen ladies and gentlemen let me just wrap up then.
Thank you for the great questions.
Thank you for your interest and your attention today.
On behalf of all of us at AK Steel we wish you the very best for a great day a better tomorrow and significantly better times ahead.
And to my fellow AK Steel associates keep believing.
I assure you you’ll keep succeeding onward and upward until we meet again.
Thank you all very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.
Have a great day everyone.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich President and Chief Operating Officer Mr.
Jaime Vasquez Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Candice and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
In a moment Roger Newport will offer his comments on our business.
Following Roger's remarks Jaime Vasquez will review our fourth quarter 2015 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Reg G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that here's Roger for his comments.
Roger? Thank you Doug.
Good morning.
I appreciate you joining us on today's call.
I'm excited and honored to be leading AK Steel.
I am also pleased to have Kirk Reich as our President and Chief Operating Officer leading both the sales and operations areas of our business.
Both Kirk and I recognize - along with the entire management team recognize the challenges that our company and the steel industry face and we are focused on taking these challenges head-on.
As part of our strategy to better serve our customers and to improve our profitability we have recently realigned our organization.
Kirk is now responsible for our sales operations quality and research and innovation teams.
This will provide the optimal structure to ensure that we remain aligned throughout the organization in our request to provide unparallel value to our customers.
In addition this change positions us well to provide our customers with unmatched multi materials steel solutions.
As the only domestic producer of carbon stainless and electrical steel products AK steel is uniquely positioned to serve all of the critical steel needs of the world’s most discerning customers.
Moving on to our results earlier today we reported our best quarter of 2015 and our highest adjusted quarterly EBITDA level since the third quarter of 2008 as we generated adjusted EBITDA of $168 million or $101 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2015.
And excluding the special charges our team was able to deliver adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of approximately $54 million which equates to earnings of $0.30 per share.
This was only possible as a result of the actions and a focus of our employees to lower our cost improve our productivity and further enrich our mix towards greater levels of value added products.
So let me take this opportunity to thank each and every one of our employees for their outstanding efforts particularly in the phase of very adverse market conditions.
It is quite apparent that the steel industry continues to face significant challenges as we enter 2016.
These challenges include continued pressures in the global steel industry as the result of the massive oversupply steel primarily from China that direct and indirectly impact others oversupply in all regions of the world and otherwise AK Steel is not a major player in the oil country tubular goods business the significant downturn in that market is contributing to the excess capacity in those markets in which we do compete and to the overall steel market.
As we have been stating for several quarters now the steel market in the United States has been flooded with what we believe are unfairly traded imports.
While the import levels have indeed began to decline for many of those countries where preliminary duties are being levied we still face significant ongoing import pressures.
To combat these challenges all of our efforts are being focused in the area of margin enhancement.
This starts with the topline sales what we sell and to who we sell it too.
It also includes lowering costs both the cost to produce our products as well as our overhead cost.
Throughout all of this we are sharpening the focus on our core business and those products and markets that provide a reasonable return to our company.
In 2015 we made some difficult decisions to better position our business for the long term success.
Over the course of the year we wrote off our investment in Magnetation in the first quarter as the result of the substantial decline in the iron ore market.
We revaluated our investment in a discontinued insurance operation.
We took a cash distribution of $14 million from this entity and are nearing completion of its sale.
And we idled the hot end of the Ashland Works facility in the fourth quarter.
These were not easy decisions especially the temporary idling of our Ashland Works hot end as we now have nearly 600 of our hardworking employees right off at this time.
We are still operating a hot dip galvanizing line of Ashland Works that primarily serves the automotive market.
These were indeed the necessary actions to take and we continue to make improvements in all areas of our business.
From a safety standpoint we continue to leave the industry by a wide margin.
Both Dearborn Works and Mountain State Carbon improved their safety performance dramatically in 2015.
A number of our other plan set new safety records during the year while others are continuing on record-breaking periods without a recordable injury.
Our operations continue to perform well as our employees find new ways to lower costs.
It is their daily commitment to continuously improve which differentiates us from our competition.
In other words reducing cost is really just a normal way of life in our plans.
I am very pleased with the progress of integrating Dearborn Works including in the areas of safety environmental quality and productivity.
In 2015 we achieved about $59 million of cost-based synergies from the Dearborn acquisition.
This is more than double our original estimate of $25 million in year one and above a year two estimate of $50 million.
With the recent idling of the Ashland hot end we will be putting both the Dearborn and Middletown Works to the test in 2016 and I am confident that the entire AK Steel Workforce will deliver.
Our overall market conditions remain challenging.
We remain steadfast in our focus on generating respectable returns on our business both from a selling price and from a cost perspective.
Towards that end we recently announced two carbon steel price increases and one stainless steel price increase and spot market prices have indeed begun to rise over the past several weeks.
On the contract side of our business demand in our core market automotive remains very strong.
In 2015 light vehicle sales in the United States totaled approximately 17.5 million vehicles marking the sixth straight year of growth ended all time high for light-vehicle sales.
Strong auto sales also leads to strong auto production.
We focus more on light vehicle production than on the sales rates as many vehicles manufactured in the NAFTA region are then exported.
For 2015 North American light vehicle production also totaled approximately 17.5 million vehicles again a record year.
And vehicle inventories remained stable at 61 days of supply at the end of 2015.
In the fourth quarter our automotive shipments represented about 58% of our total shipments.
This is the evidence of the strategic actions that we have taken and continue to pursue in order to grow the more differentiated value added portions of our business by minimizing our exposure to the commodity products.
Quite simply we remain focused on producing and delivering fields that are difficult to manufacture and thus command higher prices.
We remain committed to the automotive market and we work closely with our customers to provide them cutting edge technology to assist in their ongoing efforts to reduce vehicle wait.
Examples of our innovations in this area include next generation advanced high strength steels for body and white automotive structures as well as Thermax 17 for future designs in automotive exhaust systems.
Light automotive electrical steel product is another core market for AK Steel.
Demand for our premium quality high-efficiency electrical fields remain strong and we are responding in kind to meet the needs of our valued customers.
In the first quarter this year we will be completing the final phase of a capital investment to expand our production capabilities for the high-value added grain-oriented electrical steels for both the U.S.
and the global markets.
The project includes the installation of new production equipment at the Company's Butler Works to upgrade an existing processing line at that facility.
As a result of this investment the new equipment will increase our capacity about 5% for TRAN-COR DR and CARLITE families of high permeability steel grades.
In addition to enhancing production capacity for higher quality grades of electrical field the project will also improve our product mix flexibility.
This project is yet another step in helping our customers meet the increasing energy efficiency standards around the world.
On the stainless side of our business AK Steel remains the market leader in the world of automotive exhaust system.
2015 was a record year for our shipments of auto chrome products and further growth in this niche an highly demanding segment is expected in the coming year.
Likewise demand for other chrome grades such as those employed and exposed automotive trim applications remains robust.
Yet not all segments of our stainless market are as attractive as those just described.
One component of our strategy has been to limit our participation in the commodity chrome nickel market.
This has proven to be a wise action particularly given the significant decline in nickel prices that occurred in 2015.
Switching over to the carbon products the significant decline in spot market prices over the past 18 months has been well publicized throughout the industry.
Unfortunately as we've indicated before contract business is not immune to these pricing pressures.
At AK Steel one of the reasons that we focus on the automotive contract business is that over time the pricing is not nearly as volatile as in the spot market.
So while directionally contract and spot prices tend to move in units and the pricing peaks and valleys experienced over the course of the cycle are significantly reduced on the contract side.
And going into 2016 the historical relationship between spot and contract pricing continues.
Current contracts expired in the course of 2015 and our average selling prices were impacted by the effects of those explorations in the second half of the year.
Other contracts we'll renew in the first half of 2016 and the impact of any changes relating to those renewals will be realized in 2016.
Other spot market prices appear to be rebounding in recent weeks that remain quite low by historical standards.
The impact of unfair trade on the domestic steel industry is undeniable and we remain hopeful that our legislators in Washington will take appropriate actions to address this situation.
On the trade case front the steel industry has made some progress in recent months but not to the level we had anticipated.
For example in the corrosion-resistant trade case the preliminary duties levied against China were quite in line with industry expectations.
Yet the preliminary anti-dumping duties for other countries were rather disappointing.
At AK Steel we will continue to explore all potential trade actions to help ensure that we return to a level playing field here in the United States.
The impact of China's severe over capacity on all regions of the world raises additional challenges in the fight for fair trade but rest assured we will continue in our efforts to level the playing field on unfairly dump in subsidized imports.
Internally and externally we stress the development of our strategy is not a one-time event but its limits to just a certain set of initiatives.
Instead it is a collective set of actions to achieve the ultimate goal of improving our profitability and parts of our strategy must and will remain flexible.
Why because things change.
For example just in the last 18 months import levels increased dramatically market prices for many commodities fell precipitously the energy market declined substantially steel pricing came under severe pressure due to imports the auto market experienced a record year and three flat rolled carbon steel trade cases were filed.
In the midst of this changing landscape we're focused on controlling things within our control improving our product and market mix to optimize our returns investing in our higher end growth products reviewing every asset every product in every market and developing new and exciting products and processes.
In 2015 we continued great progress on research and innovation front and this will be a key focus area for us going forward.
We introduced new products to the specialty tubing market as well as the automotive OEM market for lightweight.
Additionally we announced that in investment in our Dearborn Works galvanizing line to produce next generation coated and cold-rolled advanced high strength steel.
We expect to begin production of these products later this year and we also began construction of our new research and innovation center.
We expanded our research and innovation team by nearly 30% compared to 2014 demonstrating our renewed and accelerated focus on new products and processes.
At AK Steel we're instilling the culture of we can and we will.
What I mean by this is that in every aspect of our business whether it is safety quality operations customer support sales working capital research and innovation in our any other area of our business if we can control it we must control it and we will control it.
In addition Kirk and I are focused on capitalizing upon the collective knowledge wisdom and experience of our employees to improve our company.
To this end we just launched our great ideas program.
We believe that our employees are an invaluable resource of finding ways to improve AK Steel.
I know our team will continue to step up and I look forward to putting their ideas into actions.
Thus I want to leave you with these thoughts.
AK Steel is unique because we're able to provide a multi-material solution for our customers whether it is the various grades of carbon steels including next generation advanced high strength steel or stainless steels or electrical steels.
In addition we are able to convert shipments carbon and stainless level products into tubular products at our AK tube operations.
On the stainless front we were able to expand our light gauge stainless product offerings to our combined metals - through combined metals our joint venture located in Chicago.
We will continue to develop innovative new products and processes to provide the best value to our customers.
We will align all of our resources with the needs of our business to ensure that we are getting return on those resources that we are investing in the business.
We are investing our business where we identifying adequate return to our shareholders and bondholders and we will control those items within our control because I know that the entire AK Steel can and will make AK Steel a stronger company.
Now before turning the call over to Jaime Vasquez our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer I want to welcome and congratulate Jaime and assuming his new role.
Jamie is well suited to help us transform our business as we drive to position it for sustained profitability in the future.
Jaime? Thank you Roger.
As Roger indicated earlier AK Steel reported adjusted net income of $53.8 million or $0.30 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2015.
This compared to our earnings guidance of a net loss of $0.33 to $0.38 which included an estimate for charges of $0.42 per share related to the temporary idling of the Ashland Works blast furnace and steel making operations and the impairment of our discontinued insurance operations.
These adjusted results for the fourth quarter represented a substantial improvement compared to net income of $6.7 million or $0.04 per share for the third quarter of 2015 and adjusted net income of $26.1 million or $0.14 per diluted share in the fourth quarter a year ago.
The recent fourth quarter improvement reflected the benefit of lower raw material costs strong automotive demand and our decision to reduce exposure to the carbon steel spot market as part of our margin enhancement strategy.
Also included in the fourth quarter results is higher than expected LIFO credit which I’ll discuss further in a movement.
Looking at shipments our mix of tons shipped improved in the recent fourth quarter as a result of strong automotive demand and our decision to reduce exposure to the carbon steel spot market.
This resulted in fourth quarter shipments of approximately 1.66 million tons which were 215 000 tons or 12% lower compared to third quarter of 2015.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $1.54 billion which was $167 million lower than the third quarter.
This decrease was driven by a reduction in shipments to the carbon steel spot market as well as lower spot market pricing resulting from continued high levels of what we believe are on fairly traded imports.
The sharp reduction in spot market pricing also resulted in sales that were 23% lower than the fourth quarter a year ago.
Our fourth quarter 2015 results included $7 million of cost associated with plant major maintenance outages.
This compares to roughly $12 million in outage costs of third quarter of 2015.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the recent fourth quarter was $168.1 million for $101 per ton.
As Roger mentioned this was our best quarterly performance in more than seven years.
This also represented an improvement of $48 million or $37 per ton compared to the third quarter of 2015 and a $51 million improvement or $43 per ton from the fourth quarter a year ago.
The EBITDA increase in the recent fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter a year ago is due in part to the effect of lower raw material costs combined with strong demand from our automotive customers.
Additionally our relentless focus on costs and operational improvements help drive the increase.
In the fourth quarter of 2015 we recorded a LIFO credit of $98.6 million compared to a LIFO credit of $44.8 million for the prior quarter and $5.3 million in the fourth quarter a year ago.
The fourth quarter LIFO credit was primarily driven by strong operating cost performance and higher shipments.
In the fourth quarter we had three special charges that are excluded from our adjusted net income.
These special charges totaled $200.9 million or $1.13 per diluted share and included a net quarter charge related to pension and post retirement benefits in the amount of $131.2 million or $0.74 per diluted share.
This consisted of a pension corridor charge of $144.3 million partially offset by an OPEB corridor credit of $13.1 million.
The net corridor charge was driven primarily by the weak performance of the financial markets partially offset by an increase in the discount rates of roughly 30 basis points at year end 2015 compared to year end 2014.
The second charge as we previously announced was related to our decision to temporarily idle the Ashland Works hot end operations in December.
We recognize a charge of $28.1 million or $0.16 per diluted share with a supplemental unemployment and other employee benefit costs as well as other expenses incurred to temporarily idle the operations.
The charge reflects the assumption that the temporary idling will likely last throughout 2016.
However we will reassess market conditions regularly to determine when to restart the Ashland Works hot end operations.
The third charge is related to our investment in AFSG which is the holding company of AK Steel's discontinued insurance operations.
As part of our strategic reviewed optimized assets we made a decision to receive a cash distribution of $14 million from AFSG.
In connection with this distribution the remaining investment in AFSG was determined to be impaired and we recognize a non-cash charge to write-off the remaining investment of $41.6 million or $0.23 per diluted share.
AK Steel has no financial obligations to AFSG.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 adjusted net income excluded $7.1 million costs related to the acquisition of Dearborn Works as well as a pension corridor and OPEB settlement charges of $5.5 million.
Highlighting our result for full year 2015 sales were approximately $6.7 billion an increase of $187 million or 3% compared to 2014 primarily due to the full year inclusion in our results of Dearborn Works and increased automotive sales.
Shipments for 2015 were nearly 7.1 million tons an increase of 957 000 tons or 16% compared to 2014.
Once again the increase is mostly due to the acquisition of Dearborn Works as well as continued strength in the automotive market partially offset by reduced shipments to the carbon steel spot market.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred approximately $51 million in plant maintenance outage costs during 2015 roughly $24 million lower than the prior year.
In 2015 we had no major on plant mill outages which is truly a credit to our operators at the plants.
In 2014 we incurred on plant outage cost of $41 million at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
In addition last year also included about $45 million in cost related to extreme winter weather conditions.
At the bottom line for 2015 we reported an adjusted net loss of $53.5 million or $0.30 per share.
This compares to an adjusted net loss of $59.7 million or $0.40 per share for 2014.
In addition to the recent fourth quarter special charges I mentioned our adjusted results for 2015 excluded first quarter charge of $256.3 million or $1.44 per share to fully impair our investment in the Magnetation joint venture.
Our adjusted results for 2014 excluded expenses of $31.7 million or $0.21 per share related to the acquisition of Dearborn Works as well as a corridor charge of $5.5 million or $0.04 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement for the fourth quarter of 2015 our capital investments totaled $27.2 million bringing our capital investments for the year to $97.3 million.
This reflects our strategy to focus our resources and capital in those areas where markets pay for the value that AK Steel delivers.
In the fourth quarter working capital was a use of cash $112.8 million.
This was primarily the result of the plant increase and inventory levels as we transition production from Ashland Works to Middletown and Dearborn Works.
To the full year 2015 working capital was essentially flat.
I would note that our credit facility borrowings remained the same from the end of the third quarter to the end of the fourth quarter of 2015.
We actually lowered our borrowings under the credit facility by $55 million in 2015.
I’d also note that our total debt pension and other post retirement employee benefits were OPEB liabilities decreased by $124 million in 2015 compared to the end of 2014.
This is partly attributed to our focus to reduce liabilities.
Total liquidity at year end was a solid $700 million with no debt maturities until the end of 2018 and no required pension contributions in 2016.
The $700 million of liquidity is more than sufficient to meet our needs in 2016.
Although we’re very comfortable with our liquidity position we will continue to further improve our working capital management as well as focusing on other liquidity enhancing actions.
Now turning to our outlook we would like to provide you with some data points for 2016.
The current year we anticipate capital expenditures to be in the range of $120 to $140 million including approximately $40 million of related growth investments.
These growth projects such as the coding line modifications at our Dearborn Works which will allow us to produce next generation advanced high strength steels are important pieces of our strategy to focus on higher value and innovative products.
We expect our plant maintenance outages in 2016 will be about the same as the $51 million we had in 2015 and we do not have any major blast furnace maintenance outages planned for the current year.
We expect working capital to be a modest source of cash in 2016 as a result of reduced exposure to the commodities spot market.
With respect to LIFO we currently do not expect a large LIFO credit in 2016 primarily as a result of more stable raw material prices.
We anticipate that our pension and OPEB credit for 2016 will be approximately $50 million compared to a credit of $63 million for 2015.
Our 2016 depreciation expense including our variable interest entities is expected to total approximately $213 million compared to $216 million in 2015.
Finally in regard to income taxes our 2016 book tax rate as in recent years will be primarily driven by a function of changes in our LIFO reserved.
In addition given our NOL tax carry-forward position we expect that our cash taxes will continue to be very minimal.
And specifically for the first quarter we see shipments declining marginally from the fourth quarter as continuing strengthening the automotive market is more than offset by an expected decline in shipments to the commodity spot market based on current market conditions.
Additionally we estimate our average selling prices to be about the same as the recent fourth quarter.
The additional insight we're providing reflects the change in our approach providing earnings guidance.
We provide you with as much information as possible going into a quarter as opposed to providing earnings guidance near the end of the quarter.
Finally I’d like to reiterate Roger's remarks.
The AK Steel management team is very focused in terms of how we want to strategically position AK Steel.
We've a great foundation to work from because we believe our quality breadth of product customer service and innovation is industry leading positioning AK Steel to deliver more value added products and services while minimizing underperforming assets and low margin products will take time.
We will continue to discuss our progress and let me assure you this team is acting with a keen sense of urgency in returning the company to a sustainable profitability.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
And at this time we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
I was surprised by your last comment there if I heard that right did you say that ASPs for the first quarter would be similar to the fourth quarter? Yes.
That will be similar as we get richer mix as we reduced sales to the urban spot market.
Yes surprising because you have a lot of contracts you said in January which I assume are coming down what are some of the other moving pieces that are offsetting that? Well part of this we’re going to be reducing what you are selling into the carbon spot market.
So we will be lower on our hot rolled and cold rolled products.
So that would be a decline and we are continuing to see strong demand in the automotive business.
So we continue to see strength in that market quarter-over-quarter.
And in the fourth quarter you'll see a little bit of seasonality with the holidays and that demand for the automotive products.
So those are couple of factors.
In addition continued growth in our electrical steel products especially the higher end – high efficiency electrical steels that will continue to grow in that market too.
So it’s a market mix and a product mix and as we have been indicating it is getting away from the commodity side reducing our exposure there and being more focused on the value added products.
That's great.
Thanks for the color on that.
Other question I have is just on the cost savings great ideas program.
Are you going to come up with some sort of a way to communicate that on a regular basis about quantifying goals and targets and updates quarterly or how is that going to work? We need to show it at bottom line and that's our goal is to improve it.
And we talked about cost reductions but we focus more internally on margin enhancements which includes cost reductions.
So example in 2015 some of the initiatives we have taken we worked on reducing our slab cost by changing the burden of how we operate our furnaces to make sure both at the blast furnace side and at our melt shops to get the lowest cost of raw material blends to make our slabs.
We have been working on optimizing what we’re doing at our melt shops on how we are producing carbon slabs and where we are producing that.
So we did that throughout 2015.
On the coal front actually our AK coal operations has done a great job in working on becoming very competitive in their capabilities to produce cost.
So those are few items that I would say was closer to $65 million of improvement that we had in 2015 compared to 2014.
In addition we continue to focus on lowering our overhead cost and then on the durable and work side as Jamie had mentioned we had about $59 million in cost based synergies.
So we have lot of activities there.
So going forward we will continue to update everyone on how we’re progressing in reducing cost because ultimately that's what we need to do as a company as to figure out how to reduce cost.
Also we have focused on in communicating what we’re doing to improve our product mix and our market mix and to be more focused on those more value added products.
Thanks for all the detail.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Just a follow up on the last question regarding the pricing.
So it sounds like you guys do expect contract pricing to decline based on your prepared remarks in your response to Evan's question that there are just going to be thing offsetting.
And so when we really looking at the coated and the cold rolled pricing I know you guys don’t disclose it most of us probably modeling some margin versus hot roll to that given what we heard most recently about the dispersion in prices between hot roll and coated and cold rolled but then also taking into account decline in contract prices.
How should we think about the way that price could move - I’m not asking for a number because I know you’re not going to give it to us but in percent basis or anything could help us understand how prices for those products might move given the puts and takes? Sure.
As we had mentioned if contract pricing moves it will parallel to what is happening in the spot market but it is just not to the order of magnitude that you see in the spot market.
That has been history and continues that way.
And the good thing is it just doesn’t have the volatility and as we look at our products we look at making sure we provide quality service delivery and in those new products in that research and innovation for our customers because that is the thing we are looking for in the future and make sure we are good supplier to our customers.
So if you look at it on the pricing front it is definitely not the level of what you see declines in the spot market that you would see in the contract side and partially offset that would be some benefits you get on the raw material front.
We’ve seen iron ore drop as you know we buy our iron ore based on the IODEX a component of the pricing for the iron ore is based on the IODEX so that has continued to decline throughout 2015 and still continues to decline here in the first half of 2016 and the forward curve shows that it’s going to continue to stay pretty weak.
And that's actually a advantage we have at AK Steel compared to others.
Scrap is falling at normally were parallel what’s happening in stock market pricing.
In addition we’ve seen coal prices drop and everyone's a while where what’s been happening in the energy markets as we can see a lot of natural gas so that will be helping us.
So I’m not saying that the cost reductions on the auto front will offset the pricing it will not but we do have some opportunities to help overcome some of the price decreases that we have seen in the automotive industry.
And in terms of overall materials obviously I know you guys pricing these on the lag especially iron ore and so even if we would assume iron ore prices are flat you may get some release on the raw material front in the first quarter.
Can we expect that to continue in 2Q 3Q if the spot market prices are flat or should if everyone kind of flat lightening these commodity prices that really low levels is this going to be is kind of the end of the raw material release that we’ve seen in '16 it will just kind of stabilize and stay low but there is not much more room for leg down after 1Q.
I think if you look at the commodity prices of what we’re seeing in the 2016 we’ve seen scrap actually start to move up little bit and I think that will parallel what happens with the overall pricing and the spot market pricing.
On the coal side our contracts are annual contracts calendar year contracts so we have our pricing completed for 2016 when it comes to the coal side which is really the main ingredient for making coke.
And we do had some of our raw material or energy cost so some of that we have locked in also.
So I would say we don’t see as much volatility but I’ll never say never because I was shocked what happened here in 2015 with some of the declines that happened in the energy markets and the raw material markets but it seems like they have gotten the pretty low loads.
Okay thanks.
And then the last question I have is just on CapEx.
Most of the companies that we look out on the credit side whose bonds are trading in the range - your bonds are trading out of CapEx to kind of their bonds level and you guys mentioned in your previous remarks that you are going to focusing on the coding line - spending on some growth next year.
Is that because you feel though you need to kind of defend that share from maybe other steel companies who are encroaching on it what’s the reason for spending on growth CapEx when mainly the results have been very good but the environments not completely stable let's say in terms of that the outlook for steel pricing et cetera.
Let's say if you look at the success of AK Steel and its predecessor company Armco the thing we have been focused on is that new product coming up with new processes new products for our customers and my belief is if you’re standing still you're moving backwards because your competition is moving ahead of you.
So we're always going to be focused on no matter what the market conditions are.
I have been in the business for over 30 years is the cyclical business we understand it.
You have to be smart about how you invest that capital when you put it and we believe we’re very prudent with our capital and how we put it into certain products example investing $29 million at Dearborn to get advance high strength steels and some of the other projects that I have mentioned - some growth in our high efficiency electrical steels and some other projects we have going on.
And our focus is for investing the capital we’re getting return on it.
So that’s where we’re focused.
We still have to maintain our equipment and we'll look at while we need to maintain and how we need to maintain it and that’s always the - the challenge to keep those cost down as well as possible.
And I did want to also Justine go back on one other comment you were asking about pricing in the future.
If you look at it from an integrated side and AK Steel side is pricing which start to rise if the spot market prices rise.
Actually that helps us because we’re only about fourth or so of our melt scrap related.
So actually as you see steel prices go up normally scrap and carbon steel price spot market prices parallel each other so we actually get some margin expansion in the spot market as scrap prices rise compared to what happens with those that have many mills.
So I'd note that also that we been hurt as it has come down because we're not 100% scrap base we've had some benefits from iron ore and other raw materials but not to the benefit that others have seen that were 100% scrap based.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Matthew Korn of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
First question for you you seem somewhat less fixated on imports perhaps is a remaining pressure in the market and maybe we have heard from some of your peers Roger clearly not satisfied with what we have seen from the [indiscernible] decision so far.
So first is there a right number for you in terms of monthly imports relative to 115 million 120 million ton U.S.
consumption market? And then second is there a next step that you can see us as far as pursuing additional policy measures.
Is there room for some of these lower duty applications found for the non-Chinese imports to see increases in the final decisions? Do you bring about new cases? What more can you do? Sure.
If you look at the imports looking back overtime normally imports have been about the low 20% of our market.
I look back back even early just even a few years ago was down about 20% or 22%.
Currently it's been running around 29%.
We beat that I think quarter last year around 34%.
So imports have definitely been an issue.
We have taken on several things actions to address it.
One is to trade cases.
We have three trade cases that have been filed.
We have countervailing duties have been assumed on all three of those cases and we're still waiting for anti-dumping duties to be accessed in hot-rolled and cold-rolled cases which we expect to happen here in February and March.
We believe it's been very effective for China.
As you've seen that if you put the two duties together countervailing duties and anti-dumping those are now totaling over 400%.
But they have not been effective for some of the other countries being more in the single digit to low double digit percentages.
The challenge we're having and we're focused on is what I'll call the [indiscernible] which is monitoring where the import is coming from and make sure we're seeking all available remedies out there to ensure that we have a level plain field.
Because the issue is it's not so much imports coming in.
They have and always will be part of our market.
It's really what is the pricing of that material and are they being subsidized or they're selling it at unfair levels? We'll also look at any other options that remain out there on the table and addressing imports as they come in because we can't sit still and let imports destroy the steel industry and other related industries.
If you think about the impacts that its having on the steel industry it also goes out to the mining industry transportation industry a lot of other industries they could impact it not just our business alone.
So it's very important for us and we have a lot of people in Washington help us - helping us to fight - unfair trade and address the situations.
On that context let me follow up and ask do you expect looking at overall for 2016.
Is there good shares that will see U.S.
total steel consumption growth to be up meaningful year-over-year or do you really see the main opportunity for domestic like yourself to replace tons and maybe last year were fulfilled by the imports.
Immediately can I get your sense for any expectations of the growth rates over '16 for the main end markets and talking to investors now there are some concern can we get high on the automotive relative to what we saw this past year for example? When we look at the automotive industry we are seeing that that is remaining very strong going up a little bit in 2016 but looks like most of the auto manufacturers are running pretty much near their capacity.
So I don't know if there is really lot of upside for them to produce a lot more but everything we're seeing is showing strong demand in 2016.
And that benefits us both on the carbon front and on the stainless front whether it's the chrome business or the chrome nickel business because we have some high-end chrome nickel business also that goes into that market.
We're also seeing still solid demand when it comes to the construction healing and air-conditioning markets.
We are not a huge player in those markets but that's still is an outlet for the fields to go into.
In regard to imports we have seen the imports come down especially from the main countries that we have filed cases against.
And we've been seeing the permit applications for imports slowly declining also.
So I think there is a lot happening out there.
In regards to at AK as you're well aware we did idle our blast furnace of Ashland.
We have three blast furnaces in our company and we did idle Ashland in December.
So we have reduced our capacity and made no sense to be selling our products at the prices that were out there in the marketplace and not giving a return on our products.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
A fire alarm just started to go off.
I know it's a test but I'm just warning you if you hear funny noise in background I'm sorry for that.
I wanted to drill down a little bit more into the grain-oriented electrical steel business.
Our [indiscernible] some of the price gains in the bottom market that we saw this time last year have evaporated and over supply has been accentuated by weak global market.
However I know that you have a different mix and a richer mix than your - the only other producer who recently decided to shut down.
So I was hoping if you can expand a little bit more on despite the versions and the high-end versus the more commodity and grain-oriented electrical steel? A can you still get price increases year-over-year if you can give us some color on that volume increases or decreases do you have any guidance there? And then do you think you can take any market share domestically or do you think that any additional volume would need to go overseas? Thanks.
I'll take that one.
Efficiency standards are certainly helping and that is driving the demand for our high value added product or higher-efficiency product.
And we are seeing growth in both those markets and our regular growth grain oriented market as well.
So both from a volume – certainly from a volume standpoint they are increasing.
We're certainly seeing some market pressures from a price standpoint but they're holding up very nicely.
So that hasn't been an issue and really we're performing very well and increasing our capacity throughout 2016 compared to 2015.
Okay.
As the years go on it seems like there is a little bit more of a switch to amorphous and the Chinese excess supply situation doesn't seem to be abiding.
What is your longer term or more medium term prospects do you think for that industry globally? We think with the efficiency standard increases that we've seen we see even more demand for our product.
So we're very content that we're in very good spot there.
We continue to work from a research and innovation standpoint expected to within this year we're probably going to bring another advancement in our regular grain oriented.
That's going to take another step function improvement and efficiency.
And we're going to remain the industry leader and producing the most efficient steels that are out there.
And that demands some value and there are certainly a lot of our folks interested in that.
So we're not concerned with that at all.
Okay.
That’s really helpful.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
On the question going forward the promise you made about your pricing being flat on slightly lower volume and the fact that you may get raw materials declining in cost from the IODEX and other things.
You just did $101 of EBITDA per ton.
I'm wondering is there any reason to believe the number in the next quarter so would be much different? Well the comment I would make there although is one of the items we have with a large LIFO credit in the quarter.
So that did have an impact and as Jamie mentioned we do not expect to have a large LIFO credit as we move forward here in the 2016 that will be primarily driven on what happens with raw material cost actually the driver for LIFO but we did have a large LIFO of credit.
In regards to – as I mentioned on contract pricing we do anticipate for the contracts we're negotiating here for the [indiscernible] effective to first of the year that the auto contracts do have lower pricing and that will be partially offset by some lower raw material cost and energy cost but we will see some pressure on our margin when it comes to the automotive side just reflecting the trends that we've seen in the spot market.
Roger in terms of that average selling price forecast of being about the same are you assuming spot prices on average are lower in first quarter versus fourth? I wouldn't comment yet on what we're seeing exactly going to happen in the spot market but that it probably seen the slight uptick here with our two price increase announcements that we made and scrap has moved a little bit here so we'll see what happens over the next two months and what happens in the spot market.
But we're not going to be a major player at spot market and that's why Jamie commented on every selling price because we're going to be taking out the D&amp;C spot tons a lot of the hot-rolled and cold-rolled tons.
So if we adjust on that that would result in a higher average selling price.
But with the pressures that we're getting from the contract pricing that will put some downward pressure on it.
And net of all together it's coming up to roughly a flat average selling price.
You got time for one more question? Sure.
In terms of the big picture you've got a new leadership team here now in terms of your major strategic decisions I'm wondering about you're thinking – you already go forward with the R&amp;D and I'm wondering if you prefer in terms of your raw material mix to remain kind of a spot binder as majority or do you think you might want to move towards more of a flat or an integrated approach and also in terms of the pension funding like how quickly you think you want to just get that done or are you going to just do the minimums and devote some of your free cash flows to possibly doing things like reducing debt with your bonds trading as low as they are.
I'm just wondering about that use of the $700 million of liquidity you have.
We don't think you have many requirements for it going forward whether there might be something in terms of the balance sheet improvement.
Thanks.
I will take the second one first in regards to pension funding as Jamie mentioned we do not have any required pension funding in 2016 and really what drive in the future is what happens with our assets return that will drive our required funding.
We have always taken approach just to do the minimum funding on that in regards to pension funding.
In regards to vertical integration we’re very happy right now with our position.
We are out on a raw materials we have a little bit of our coal that we get from AK Coal the rest we buy in the marketplace as we’re fine with that and our vertical integration we have most of our iron ore we get from those natural resources and also get some magnetization agreement with magnetization.
So we’re pleased right now as it does watch away all of the contract have some type of IODEX component in it another drivers in it or pricing.
So we like to float with the markets on that helps to align with what happens in the market prices.
So our focus is as where we can invest the money to get our return as we talked about on their capital investments and on the raw material front we see whether its iron ore or coal or other commodities if there is plenty of capacity and plenty supply out there and we don’t see any major changes in the near term for those markets raising.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
I had just a follow up on Timna's question on grain-oriented in terms of the actual name plate capacity of the mix that you are trying to attain and where you are relative to that and then may be some color as to how you expect our shipments to develop this year? That's a difficult question only be as it’s a very mix dependent.
We have as Roger mentioned earlier we’re making a small investment that allows us to get more of the PCA to higher efficiency product and we’re doing that intentionally because that’s an improved better margin product for us.
However as we received more business in a regular grain oriented we are continuing to fill our units and get more tons out.
So it's really difficult to pin down an exact because RGO [ph] versus TCH or national versus International really changes that very fluidly and we’re just kind of adjust with that and it's hard to pinpoint in a specific number for you.
But we’re filling overall capacity we’re getting nearly full and that’s a great thing for us.
Any thoughts on what we may or should expect for volume growth and the grain oriented business this year or just give us any feel for what that business did from a volume perspective in '15 maybe relative to '14.
And then remind us how much your business now is called annual contract in terms of pricing.
The majority of it is annual contract pricing type of negotiations.
We have increased a fair amount of more than 10% probably pushing 20% year-over-year is what we would anticipate.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from David Gagliano of BMO.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
I wanted to come back to LIFO question on a couple of different sites.
First of all just I understand the comment regarding the benefit having or the impact being a big benefit this quarter but it is still confusing to me how much of that would actually translate into sustaining lower cost moving forward.
So all else held constant $168 million of EBITDA $101 per ton operating income what would that be without the LIFO credit.
I know I can just do the math but how much of that LIFO credit translates to lower cost beginning in Q1 if that makes any sense.
David this is Jamie.
Look let me answer the second part of that.
I think I would torn down any expectations for the large LIFO credit as we get into 2016 just based on an expectation that raw material prices why they can get lower there is pie closer to a bottom.
And in terms of looking back at 2015 in total the LIFO for the year was almost $200 million.
If you just hold everything flat going forward from 2016 you would say while that should be about $15 million per quarter.
So theoretically you can say costs were maybe overstated than the first part of the year and then we caught up in the second part of the year and it has to do with the LIFO calculations.
But I would just look at going forward and again like we said in our prepared remarks the expectation for 2016 is a much smaller credit.
If you look at it from the LIFO side raw materials continue to fall throughout the year.
If you look at where we started at beginning of the year was the IODEX was at where scrap was at everything was at it was much higher and it declined literally every quarter - every month of every quarter throughout the year all the way into December and it continue to decline even in December from one of the raw materials which is what was driving our LIFO credit to grow.
Also then we are getting the benefits of that because that's now what is in our inventory.
So as we go into 2016 we do have lower cost inventories than we came into 2015 was.
So we have that benefit too.
But if you compare to fourth quarter as we indicated we had nearly $99 million LIFO credit in the fourth quarter that's reflecting as you’re adjusting the values of your inventory to a last in first out basis giving some of that a little bit higher benefit in the fourth quarter.
But if you look forward if raw materials didn’t change then lot other factors of those don’t change your volumes et cetera than you will be getting rid of most of that LIFO credit.
So for some reason it's still a bit of a mystery to me.
I was really just trying to get a dollar number like $168 million includes say $50 million I think is what maybe I heard $50 million of LIFO related credit that if nothing else changes kind of goes away in the first quarter so $168 million we got $118 am I misinterpreting that or not? I don’t know I would say - be able to split it I mean it’s not a simple calculation to say how much of it is carrying forward and you get the benefit of lower cost I would say is that we continue to see lower cost.
We see coal cost going down next year the calendar year contracts we’ll have – what we paid for coal for example this year we will use that inventory up as it floats through all of our systems and then start having lower coal cost coming for example.
So we will get those benefits iron ores continue to fall the IODEX has continued to decline.
So we get those benefits and then scrap – scrap has actually started to uptick a little bit which if that doesn't usually the interest spot market pricing start to move up also.
So it’s not an easy one to estimate in this split out in the way you’re asking.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Melissa Tan of R.
W.
Pressprich.
Your line is now open.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
First one is relating to the Ashland blast furnace just trying to understand I guess your expectation for 2016 is a fair to assume that Ashland will be on idling for remainder of 2016 and if that’s the case how would you expect to manage your minimum nominations from your suppliers that's for iron ore and coke because you do get a benefit from the pricing side I think from a volume standpoint you are tied to minimum number every year? Sure I will take that one.
From a Ashland operational standpoint we currently have the assumption based on what we tied to our cost that we hit when we idled it – that we took when we idled it that their current view would be is temporary idle for the remainder of the year.
That does not mean that will be the case it will be an evaluation that we do on an ongoing basis in reviewing the iron ore price the raw materials prices of the imports and where you really have no set number it’s simply a factor of we would need to have a support sustained profitability in order to resume operations in Ashland and so that remains to be determined type of question.
And as far as raw material portions it is still work in progress as you mentioned.
We have take-or-pay with every aspect of our contracts for raw materials.
However we have a lot more flexibility than we’ve had in the past or probably we ever had.
And so we’re continuing to work with our providers of those raw materials and are making adjustments accordingly and working with them to see our way through that.
Okay thank you.
And second one just regarding question on your liquidity you talked about you are comfortable with $700 million liquidity definitely - if you cover your expense in 2016 and beyond but you also mentioned what other liquidity enhancing metrics are you looking there at this point? There are things that we can do both from the accounts receivable side and even from the accounts payable side to enhance liquidity.
And also the primary focus is on inventory making sure we keep inventories aligned with market demand.
Those are some of the actions that we can take and we will continue to make.
And ultimately we are also striving to improve our earnings and lowering our cost.
I mean that’s what how you get the old-fashioned way of getting high cash generated from the operations and that’s our key focus of our entire management team.
And as we mentioned back to one comment that David had asked earlier when you look at the raw materials we did get the benefit of raw materials declining throughout 2015 so as you go into second half David we were benefited some lower raw material cost there throughout the year and that will carry over in the next year.
So with that on behalf of the entire AK Steel management team I would like to thank you for joining us in today's call.
I can assure you that we will continue to take on the challenges head-on and focus on adding value for our bondholders and shareholders.
And we look forward to providing you with an update of our continued progress next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.